ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2014 /German press 6/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Jan Fischer. Before he takes the word... All right, personally, Prime Minister Jiří Rusnok. But before taking the floor, I would ask the chairman of the budget committee of Václav Votava to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. And since the President of the Chamber of Deputies ordered the bill to be passed to the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Budgets has tabled a resolution delivered as House Press No. 6/1. I ask the Prime Minister now to take the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present at first reading the Government's proposal for the State Budget for 2014. First, I will begin by reminding you of the conditions under which we have drawn up this proposal and the circumstances, the essential circumstances associated with it. The Czech Republic is a member of the European Union and is committed, among other things, to complying with the rules and standards that apply to all the states of this grouping. In the case of budgetary policy and fiscal management parameters, this is, inter alia, a 3% deficit in the annual budget according to the ESA 95 methodology, as well as a 60% limit in relation to GDP for total government debt. In terms of government debt, from the point of view of this criterion, the Czech Republic does not yet have a quantitative problem with its fulfilment, although the rate of increase of this debt is a warning in Czech terms. In 2009, the so-called "government deficit limit" was launched against the Czech Republic due to the fact that it was exceeded. the excessive deficit procedure. We have been ordered to reduce the excessive deficit below 3% of gross domestic product by the end of 2013 at the latest in a credible and sustainable manner. I stress in a credible and sustainable way - these are essential words in this condition. Therefore, the draft budget, which I have the honour to present to you, has been drawn up to respect this line. Only so, and only with a positive assessment by the European Commission, can the excessive deficit procedure in relation to the Czech Republic be terminated. Otherwise, this procedure will be extended by one year. But for the end, successful completion of this procedure is only the first step. For the Czech Republic, it remains true that it should achieve a medium-term budgetary objective in the medium term. It is defined as so called. a structural deficit of 1% of GDP. What were the economic conditions for drawing up this proposal? Unfortunately, they haven't, and they're still not very favorable, as you all know. Gross domestic product decreased last year, this year all relevant institutions expect its further decline by about 1%. However, all relevant institutions also expect a positive turnaround in the Czech Republic. So we came from an estimate of 1.3 percent of GDP growth for 2014. On this basis, a draft state budget was drawn up. At the time when we prepared this estimate, or prepared it with the expert apparatus of the Ministry of Finance, and when we based it on the estimate of state budget revenues, I was a little concerned that the estimate might be a little optimistic. After the events that have occurred since then, this means basically sometime since the second half of September of this year, the most important of which is the decision of the Czech National Bank to depreciate the koruna, but also the further development of the previous indicators available, I would say, calmly. I think the estimate is very realistic today, it's about somewhere in the middle of that corridor of estimates that are available, I'd even say it's in the lower half of it. I am not concerned in this case, as the estimate of inflation has, of course, changed, I am not concerned about the nominal fulfilment of the revenue projected in this budget. In the draft state budget we have incorporated, we can collectively say, growth measures in the range of about half a percentage point of gross domestic product. We believe that the state of the Czech economy, the phase of its cycle, requires such measures. Without knowing at the time what crucial step the central bank will take, it has actually taken place and then, in my opinion, a concerted action of monetary policy and budgetary policy will take place next year. This budget is a budget that ends with fiscal restrictions, and it can be said that it will be slightly, but really slightly fiscally expansionary. Regarding the priorities of the government - and I believe that not only the governments - that have been incorporated into this budget, it is, on the one hand, a certain impetus for restoring economic growth and increasing employment, and it is also an effort to promote the competitiveness of the Czech economy. We were looking, as I said, at not exceeding that reference framework for the government sector deficit of the Maastricht criterion of 3% of GDP. We were also - and this is a very important part of the priorities - about the effective and transparent drawing and use of European Union funds, including ensuring national means for a smooth transition to the new programming period 2014 to 2020. [[12.30 hours]] Other objectives and tasks include the removal of flood damage and the restoration of areas affected by this natural disaster, the stabilisation of means of maintenance, repair and development of transport infrastructure, which is also adopted within the relevant limits of the draft budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. We also wanted to continue and deepen, as far as possible to increase the efficiency of tax collection, the fight against tax evasion, crime and corruption, and we also wanted to increase control in the administration of the state's equity participation and the efficiency of the management of these organisations. The Government approved the draft Act on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2014 by its resolution No. 729 of September 25th of this year. The budget is in line with this government's mandate, set up by the mandatorial expenditure, the state of implementation and the stage of economic development and the overall state and efficiency of public and public administration. Budget revenue is planned at CZK 1099.3 billion, which is 18,5 billion more against the approved budget this year. Expenditure then in the level of CZK 1211.3 billion, which is an annual increase of CZK 30,5 billion against this year's budget. The balance of the state budget in 2014 should therefore reach minus CZK 112 billion, which represents an increase of CZK 12 billion compared to the approved budget of this year. There is very little room for the government for its active operations on the expenditure side of the budget in terms of commitments arising from applicable legal standards and pre-determined expenditure for drawing up European funds. This is the reality, a fact which, I would say, has long determined this country's budgetary policy. Thus, the biggest budget expenditure is the so-called mandatorial expenditure. For 2014, the budget is 706,8 billion, which accounts for 58,4% of the total expenditure of the State budget. Among the most important expenditures of this group, i.e. mandatorial expenses, are social mandatorial expenses, including pensions, state health insurance payments and other items. After counting the so-called quasi-mandatory expenditure of less than 206 billion and spending on European Union programmes and projects, including financial mechanisms, which represent a volume of about 100 billion, then we get the amount of some determined expenditure of the state budget, which accounts for almost 84 percent of the total expenditure of the budget. The remaining 16 percent of the state budget expenditure represents the government's room for manoeuvre. These remaining expenditure includes research and development expenditure, university expenditure, transport infrastructure expenditure, etc. In short, allow me to stop at the question of budgetary make-up. Generally speaking, the budgetary provisional, which lasts only a short time, is a very small problem. If there is a budgetary make-up, I fear, however, that it would not take a short time, all the deadlines to be followed would mean that it would probably take a few months. Within the framework of the budgetary commission, the Ministry of Finance may set for each month of this commission not more than one twelfth of the total expenditure of the state budget last year, i.e. 98.4 billion as the maximum amount of monthly expenditure. We have already experienced the budgetary provisional at least twice in history, but only a few days or weeks. I believe that this time, thanks to the understanding of the House and the decisive political clubs, we will avoid this inconvenience. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the draft state budget at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u3	I thank the Prime Minister for his opening words. As I have already submitted, you have the resolution of the Budget Committee, House Press No. 6/1, and please take the floor of the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Members of Parliament, Government, I would like to introduce you to resolution No. 13 of 4 December 2013 on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2014. This was delivered to Members on 4 December 2013 at 21.15 hours. It's just for form. Resolution of the Budget Committee of the 2nd meeting of 4 December 2013 on the first reading of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2014, House Press 6, and how to discuss the draft medium-term expenditure frameworks for 2015 and 2016, House Press 7. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Gregor, the report of the Chairman of the Committee of Mr Votava and after the debate of the Committee on Budgets I. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2014 at first reading: Chamber of Deputies II. It approves the basic data of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2014 according to the House press 6, which are - I will read only the three most important data: the amount of revenue determined by the amount of CZK 1099.3 billion, the amount of expenditure determined by the amount of CZK 1211.3 billion, the difference between income and expenditure, i.e. the balance, determined by the amount of CZK 112 billion. There is also a method of settlement of the balance, financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of the regions, financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of the municipalities, financial relations of the state budget to the budget of the capital city of Prague, authorisation of the Minister of Finance in Section 2 para. 1 etc.; II. Notes that the draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2014 contains financial relations with the budget of the European Union, namely the expected revenue from the budget of the European Union of a total of CZK 98 billion of CZK 537 thousand 898 and contributions to the budget of the European Union of a total of CZK 36 billion of CZK 400 million. It also sets out the scope of the insurance capacity of Export and Guarantee and Insurance Companies - I will not read the numbers, they are listed there, III. commands to discuss the chapter and headings of the government draft state budget for 2014 - I will also not read it, you have it in the material, IV. Instructs the Chamber of Deputies to discuss the draft organisational committee on the budget of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate's Organising Committee on the budget of the Senate for 2014 to the Budget Committee, V. Notes that the Government, together with the Government's draft Act on the State Budget for 2014, submitted a proposal for medium-term expenditure frameworks for 2015 and 2016 and that the Chamber of Deputies will discuss it on the same date as the third reading of the state budget. Finally, it empowers the rapporteur of the Committee of Mr Votava to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. That's what I did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. The first party to the debate is the Minister of Finance Jan Fischer, then the Member and Chairman of the ANO Faltýnek Club, then Mr Stanjura as Chairman of the ODS Club with priority rights. Other logged in you can see on the board. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u6	Mr President, Members, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to recapitulate what changes have been made compared to the proposal put forward by the previous government on the revenue and expenditure side. That's information I'd hate to owe you, and I'd like you to be familiar with these numbers. In the area of revenue, there has been an increase in revenue from the budget of the European Union and from financial mechanisms of 100 billion against the original government proposal by the previous government. The combined increase in revenue and expenditure for some chapters by 0.6 billion. CZK mainly due to the sale of unnecessary assets, Ministry of Health and Ministry of the Interior. There was an increase in income from social security contributions by about 2 billion. Crowns. There has been an increase in revenues, or we expect an increase in revenues in the chapter of the Czech Telecommunications Office from the sale of licenses by 2 billion. CZK, total expected income is about 10 billion. Crowns. We expect an increase in revenue from state-owned enterprises by 1.8 billion. CZK against the original government proposal. A total of 7.8 billion are involved. The koruna of this income. Reduction of the state budget's tax revenue estimates by 1.5 billion. CZK following the September forecast of macroeconomic indicators and specifying the estimate according to the expected reality of 2013. After all, this further increase in revenue is due to the expected increase in revenue from the State Land Office by 1.1 billion. Crowns. These are changes, please nicely, on the revenue side. On the expenditure side, expenditure has been increased following the involvement of revenue from the European Union, which is a forward-looking item in the budgetary sense of 100 billion. Crowns. There has been an increase in the volume of wage resources for salaries, including the facilities of the state's organisational units and the contribution organisations by 2 per cent, with an impact of 3 billion. CZK increase against the original proposal of the previous government. There has been an increase in the expenditure of the General Treasury chapter by 2.7 billion. CZK for expenditure related to the removal of flood damage and the reconstruction of the territory. We've increased spending by 4.7 billion. CZK to increase the state's payment for state insured persons in view of the stabilisation of the situation in Czech health care. As a pro-export measure, we see an increase in export subsidies by CZK half a billion, an increase in expenditure on research, expenditure and innovation by 0.4 billion. CZK compared to the proposal of the previous government. Increase in agricultural expenditure by 2,9 billion. Crowns. Strengthening the renewable resource subsidy by 3 billion. Crowns. This is done consciously, because the state budget and the state assume the responsibility, greater responsibility for changing unrealistically set energy input prices with regard to energy prices from renewable sources, which in the long term and systematically stifle Czech larger, smaller, small, medium-sized enterprises, which, in the period of recession and expected fragile growth, we think is a correct and pro-growth measure. And at the same time we're strengthening by 0.8 billion. increasing Czech participation in the project financed from the budget of the European Union in the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, because it has a chance to make use of this money. Strengthening transport expenditure, or if you want transport infrastructure, by 2.1 billion. against the original proposal of the previous government. Finally, an increase in expenditure in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on foster care, social legal protection of children and expenditure related to social security management and employment policy by 1.8 billion. Crowns. On the contrary, in the budget debate, electricity spending for all chapters has decreased by 10 per cent in cross-cutting terms, which is 181 million. CZK, for selected services by 765 million. CZK - these are mainly communication and information technology services and legal services, which - I do not do anything about it - I consider to be enormous and unreasonably high. We've reduced the cost of running the state debt by 2 billion. Crowns. The state budget deficit was increased by 7 billion. CZK 112 billion for the total deficit. CZK still in the corridor of the Maastricht criteria, i.e. just below three percent. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I consider the budget presented to be nothing more than the art of the possible. The state budget is the result of bilaterally technical work rather than sophisticated fiscal or macroeconomic considerations. For this was not the time for the government, which entered on July 10th, and had the time to do so until September 30th. The budget reflects the state of the economy, its international context. It reflects the situation and situation in fiscal policy, the setting of tax rates, but also the ability of the State to collect taxes. It reflects the level and rationality of the Czech state administration, the level of internal processes of the state administration and the level of its management. And, of course, it also reflects the level of efficiency of drawing European money. But also, and perhaps above all, it reflects the degree and level of implementation, or rather delaying the implementation of necessary and fundamental reforms in health, in science and research, in education and, of course, in the reform of state administration. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to see a Minister of Finance standing at this point, who will not have to choose between greater and less evil in budgeting, between pharmaceutical balance, where to add and reduce, but it will be the Minister of Finance, who will be able to implement its government's programme and its priorities thanks to successful economic and social reforms, regardless of how this government will be oriented. In this I would like to wish every government and its Finance Minister every success from this place. Madame Members, if you do not like this budget, and I can understand that some may not like it, some of them may not like it for a number of reasons, whatever they are, but please don't ask what is essential you can do with this budget, but what will you do to make the next budgets better? This is the conclusion of my confession to this budget once more. Thank you for your attention. Take this work really as an art possible with regard to the parameters available to this government. And not only this government, but on the parameters of this economy and the overall level of reforms or non-rephors that this country has already passed or failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u7	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Jan Fischer for supplementing the introductory words. I ask Mr Faltýnek to take the floor in the debate. I just have a question as to whether or not we are able to end this debate for the 13th hour planned, my colleague, or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u8	I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u9	In that case, in any case, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, honourable Members, we have before us the discussion of essential material - the state budget for next year, for 2014. I would like to ask, in this way, for our club, that we approach this serious document with the utmost responsibility, constructively and especially with a cool head. If we do not approve by the Government of the proposed State Budget Act by the end of December, the state's management will be governed by a budget make-up. That's been said here a few times today. This provisional may jeopardise our country's international credit and undermine foreign investors' confidence. The supply of European subsidies would also be threatened, regardless of sending out a negative signal to the public. I don't want to talk here long because I'm not used to it. Let us proceed to constructive negotiations and show the voters that we are able to work in their behalf. Please forget personal, political and other ambitions. Let us bear in mind that we are under public scrutiny and we can show that we can agree on really fundamental things. The budget itself is planned by the government in demise with a deficit of 112 billion, as has been said here. We are not the authors of this proposal and in no way want to advocate a negative trend in the higher budget deficit. At the same time, however, we do not have time to fundamentally intervene in the draft budget and move its appropriations. If our movement agrees with its partners and becomes part of the coalition government, we will demand that the future cabinet in the coalition treaty commit itself to creating a budget reserve of several billion crowns. We will create this reserve by saving in the operating costs of individual resorts. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention and I hope that the budget negotiations will show that this House wants and will also work in favour of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u11	I thank Mr and the President of the club ANO to Faltýnek for his speech in the debate. Words will be taken by the President of the ODS Club, also with priority rights, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, who also promised that he would be very rational by 13:00 so that we could announce a lunch break for the club presidents. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u12	I didn't promise anything like that, but I will. I was impressed by the comment made by my colleague, the chairman of another member of the club, who says: if we become part of a government coalition, we will promote that expenditure be lower and become more effective. So I say we do our best, even if we don't become part of the government coalition, and that's not if. I don't think we need to wait for the end of the coalition negotiations, the appointment of the government, etc. I think today we can clearly set limits. I agree that today is neither the time nor the space for us to move between chapters, but that is also not the task of first reading. It seems to me again, I'm sorry, relatively alibiistic - I'm gonna approve something today that I don't agree with, but I promise when I'm in the government, I'm gonna get back to it and make it better. We have two concrete amendments to those basic parameters, which are not revolutionary in any way, which, in my view, can also be supported by other parliamentary clubs. Then I will read them, and I will refer to them in a detailed debate. To put it simply, the first only goes to expenditure and reduces the state budget deficit to 99 billion in order to maintain the trend so that it is slightly lower than the planned deficit of 2013. The second is a little more ambitious, i.e. It also reduces revenue by 8 billion and therefore total expenditure by 21 billion in order to maintain the deficit of 99 billion. I will then propose that we vote first on this more ambitious plan if anyone thinks that it is too ambitious, and will vote against it, so that he has the opportunity to vote for one who is less ambitious, which says that this Chamber of Deputies sets a task for the future government, and I think that this task is feasible. It's not a fictional number. In the debate, whether on a timetable or today, when the Minister of Finance spoke, this proposal was very often compared with the proposal of the Government of Petr Nečas, of which I was a member. It is based on this material and it is called the preparation of the state budget. We have not approved any draft budget, we have not concluded a debate and it is unfair to bring up a working document with which many ministers disagreed and were preparing for another debate, and say: against what they proposed, we propose this. The government as a whole, the previous or previous government, has not approved any draft budget for 2014. The only thing she approved with her resolution was a percentage deficit. That's what I think is perfectly correct and that's what the resolution sounds like. There was no individual total revenue and total expenditure. That's all we've done. It's only for those who say against the last draft. If these two proposals fail, we will vote against the basic parameters. One of the reasons was already mentioned by Mr. Faltýnek. Turning trend: 112 billion against 100 billion planned this year. The result will be better than the planned 100 billion, and it still fell income from the auction frequency, which will logically be in 2014. This means that it will be at least 10, maybe 15 billion better than planned, because one-off income is moving from 2013 to 2014. Moreover, it is planned, this year will be an economic downturn, I think it is no longer worth arguing about the number, we will know this in a few months, some say 1%, some say 1.1, some say 0.8, but there will be an economic downturn, while the deficit will be below 100 billion. For next year, the government is forecasting growth of 1,3% of GDP while increasing expenditure. The second reason why we will reject it if there is no reduction in expenditure is that it is historically the highest expenditure framework that has been approved. This means that the number of 1 trillion 211 billion is by far the highest that has ever been proposed within the state budget. We don't want to have a long debate about whether the revenue is completely real or not, because, to be honest, the 8 billion that we're saying we could cut in a total of 1 trillion 100 billion is a percentage so low that I wouldn't blame anyone unless they figure out exactly 8 billion up or down revenue. The percentage of error rate, or rather deviation, is very small and the government is not entirely in control. What we consider to be structural errors there, and then we will return to it, I hope, in committees and at second reading, is low support for science and research. Once again, I believe that we are able to agree on this across the political spectrum and add money there, our proposals will not be in any way that we increase by 100 percent etc., but we want to come up with a realistic proposal. Another thing we think is wrong. Although the budget has been referred to as being budgeted for economic growth support, for investment, so if I quote directly the sentence of the law: "Capal expenditure is budgeted at 74 billion for 2014 and expenditure is falling by 21 billion compared to 2013.' I know the counter-argument that less European money will be drawn, but our approach to European money is this: the state has priorities, national resources are earmarked for this. If the European money is able to pay part of the priorities, that is a good thing and the state can invest national resources elsewhere. We are not supposed to do it the other way around - because we have European money, so we will do something that does not have priority, but we would not otherwise have exhausted it, we should draw it that way, because very often we forget about future operating expenditures that produce such projects for projects. Low support for science and research, low investment rate. I would say an absolute resignation to combat the abuse of social benefits. I understand there's nothing dramatic that can be done on 1 January, but if we want to do something about it, and I've heard it again from many colleagues from other political subjects that we want to do it, I think that at least a slight savings can be budgeted. A topic that we will repeatedly return to, although we have increased, virtually. They have reduced the price for renewable resources for our businesses and households, and I think there is a way for us to go further down, so that we ourselves do not make the state's intervention worse the competitiveness of our companies and, at the same time, make our households' economic situation worse at the expense of those who benefit from poorly adopted legislation. And because very often those who set the fire criticize the firefighters that they're late or that they're not putting out enough, I'm telling everyone to see who voted for the original law, who caused it, and they're supposed to fire first. Not to those who started to slow it down like we did three years ago, say, and maybe we could have been a little faster and maybe we could have been a little stronger. But the pyromaniac should never criticize those firemen. [[13.00 hours]] I believe that our proposals, which are budgetaryly responsible yet not dramatic, can be supported regardless of who belongs to the emerging coalition or opposition, because at least the one proposal, reduce spending by 13 billion, there is nothing that any government could, in principle, easily arrange. And I will repeat what I said on the budget committee, and Minister Fischer has heard it before. In my opinion, it is totally unacceptable for the Minister of Finance not to take part in the Committee on Budgets. We made that time on Wednesday night, the finance minister just didn't do it. But for me, it's a simple explanation. If it was a political government, yours, it certainly wouldn't have happened. So our request: try to establish this political government as quickly as possible, because it is good for the opposition, too, because the roles of the responsibility and the one to control the government will be clearly divided. Today, many here say: the budget seems to be nobody's budget. That's just not true. I already said that once today. Whoever supports this budget takes responsibility for it. If we reduce expenditure, we are ready to support the basic framework and take responsibility for the three basic indicators - total revenue, total expenditure and balance of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u13	Thank you to the chairman of the ODS Club. And it even worked out for us with the time, so I'm declaring a 14-hour break. The first one to be logged in after the break will be Mr Adolf Beznoska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u14	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Please take your seats so that we can continue our negotiations. Another one for the debate here is Mr. Beznoska. So, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u15	Good afternoon, Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The President Stanjura delivered a strong opinion on the draft budget for 2014 for the ODS. I would put it quite briefly. I would remind you of some fundamental facts. One more thing - I'm going to touch what President Faltýnek of the YES movement said. I will just point out, and that is a good thing, the contradiction between how the budget was put to the vote, and then in his reading speech, it was said that the budget needed to be discussed very carefully as an important basic financial document. There's a contradiction there. However, and Prime Minister Rusnok pointed it out, we are moving within a certain macroeconomic framework. Relatively positive macroeconomic indicators are expected. I will recall the expected growth of gross domestic product 1.3 percent. Stability in the labour market is expected. The expected unemployment rate is 7.6 percent. The intervention of the Czech National Bank, which led to the weakening of the koruna, should, as expected, produce a positive impact of an estimated 0,6 per cent of gross domestic product. Stabilization measures are being implemented in Europe that ensure that, say, the crisis in the southern wing of the European Union cannot be transferred to our central part. So in view of these positive expectations, I understand that the government has prepared a draft budget with revenue of 1 beat. 99 billion. etc. I understand that. I can even imagine that these revenues will be filled next year. As far as I'm concerned, it's as if a five-goal athlete took advantage of all five, but I'm not ruling it out. That is why, in this sharp contrast to these optimistic expectations, I do not understand that next year's deficit of the state budget is to reach a historical maximum, more than 1 beat. 211 billion. Kč. From this point of view, I quite logically think that this signal may be far more dangerous than the one that has been mentioned here for a long time, the signal of the danger of the provisional budget. I remind you that the budgetary provisional in the next few weeks will certainly not scare the markets, and if this is really just a technological deadline, then we have nothing to worry about. More important, perhaps much more important, is that the curve that was constantly decreasing - I will just remind you that in 2009 the deficit of the state budget was 192 billion. A year later, 152, 146 etc., this year very probably, almost certainly, we will reach a deficit of less than 100 billion. This is a positive trend that we should all remember, and if we turn it around, if we reverse the curve, it could be a very unpleasant signal. What do I suggest? What the Citizen's Democratic Party Club proposed. A minor adjustment, and from my point of view, it's really a minor adjustment that doesn't go beyond, or exceeds very slightly 1% of the expenditure, that means cutting spending by 13 billion next year. so that the deficit of the State budget reaches an amount of 99 billion. Kč. It will be a positive signal both to the public that this House really thinks about public finances, it will be a signal, and perhaps a quite stronger signal, even for financial and other markets. From this point of view, therefore, I see this, and I believe that, apart from the ODS, this proposal to reduce the deficit will, of course, support the TOP 09. And I am deeply convinced that this lower deficit will also be supported by the club of the political movement YES, because all of their comments, which I have been able to record, have spoken of the fact that we will be very helpful to the state money, with great humility. Again, we are only proposing a roughly 1% reduction in expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u16	Then there's Mr. Fiala, but before I give him my word, I'd like to convey the apologies that came to our table. I would like to excuse Minister Toman from today's meeting due to a long-term planned meeting outside the territory of the capital city of Prague. Mrs Wernerová also excuses her absence from 14:30 and then also Mr Gabal on a business trip. Mr. Fiala. Sorry, then there's Mr. Volný's actual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u17	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to respond with a very short reply to my colleague, Beznoska, who spoke before me. He said that he could imagine fulfilling state budget revenue, and very conveniently likened it, it's like when an athlete has five goals and uses five of them. Mr colleague, I agree with you, but last year this athlete did not use either. I'll fill in some facts right away. Ladies and gentlemen, let me express the position of the Dawn movement on the state budget. Our state control institutions say that we are inefficiently managed. špičkový experts say it's inefficiently managed. The public is convinced there's been a robbery. We politicians have promised a fundamental remedy during the campaign, and now is the time to ask ourselves the main question: Is the budget under discussion on the way to such a correction? What we can fix by approving a budget with a deficit of 112 billion. Why? What can we do to help by strengthening the trend of deficit budgets that are implemented in the environment of our notorious inhospitability? The reports of the Supreme Audit Office and the public part of the BIS report are very clear on this ineffectiveness - and I say this very gently. And we do not want to support such inhospitability in the Dawn movement. The Ministry of Finance is based on an illusionary estimate of the growth of the Czech economy, as it did last year. This is what I was talking about in relation to a colleague who spoke here before me. First, the Ministry of Finance promised us that our economy would grow by 1.3 percentage points in 2013. Then they lowered the forecast by 0.3, and then it turned out that our economy would probably fail by 1.3 percentage points. In short and in layman's terms, we are beginning to move in the level of discussion on precise sums of inaccurate numbers. The Ministry of Finance itself clearly states on its website that there is no reliable estimate of GDP developments in 2014. There's a bad draft budget ahead of us today. Responsibility for this budget, if approved, will be assumed by the parties to the emerging government coalition. Today, we have the opportunity to kill the budget at first reading and send the Republic to the budgetary commission, or try to make amendments at second reading the maximum possible. We are not part of an emerging government coalition, but we do not want to play opposition theatre on the subject of the worse, the better. We're not blackmailing, we're not threatening. Our Members will not vote against the budget at first reading. We will facilitate its approval and procedure until second reading. At second reading, we will try constructive proposals to make changes in this, as I have already said, to the budget of precise sums of inaccurate numbers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u18	I'll ask Mr. Volný for two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u19	Madam President, government, colleagues, we have been indirectly invited by Mr Beznoska to express whether we are indifferent to the deficit of 112 billion or not. But of course it isn't. We want to be constructive. We think that if this is not approved at first reading today, it means another great delay and danger of budget make-up. My colleague Stanjura here says there's little time to discuss it, that he couldn't even read it properly. I'm sure he's right. And today, he wants to vote on the 12, 15 billion hits. reduce this deficit? Personally, I think there is room for this at second reading, where certain adjustments can be made and these funds can be transferred to the government's budget reserve fund, or - and, of course, we intend - to work on those ministries honestly, conscientiously, as we can, and we simply do not spend those funds. It is not said that a budget will be approved here, and this budget, this money, must be spent. It's not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u20	Another registered comment is Mr. Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u21	I don't know if I speak Czech or anything. I'll try to translate your performances, and maybe you can correct me for misunderstanding me. You say we don't want to save money now, we don't want to save money till next month. Do I understand that correctly? Technically, we can't reduce the second reading deficit, you and I both know that. So it's not true that we're going to fix it at second reading, we're going to leave the 112 billion, if you're going to vote today, and it doesn't matter what we do at second reading. There we will do between - the basic parameters we set today. And I wanted to challenge you to spare us today. And if you really consider 13 billion. for something that can't be fulfilled, I just don't believe it. It's not 100, although you said you could do 100, 200 billion. Every year, I just don't suggest it. I propose 13 billion. It's not that much. As much as you want to take credit for the investigation? Or I don't know what the problem is. We all say we want to save money, but we don't want to reduce the deficit today, or some people don't want to. Some want to cut it down. I don't really understand. I'd ask you not to disturb me when I speak. 99 instead of 112 is a reduction. Maybe you don't like it, but it's true. It's nothing famous, minus 99 billion. It's not something we have to be extra proud of, but don't tell ourselves we're gonna fix it at second reading. We won't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u22	With a factual remark, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u23	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to point out to President Stanjura that all he can do is suggest that he return the government to work - Section 102 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u24	So the next one for the debate is prepared by Mr. Dolejš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u25	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I won't be bothering you for long, don't worry, but I still think that even the KSČM factions should not be missed when the views of the various factions have been heard. I am aware that by voting on the timetable, we have launched this year's budget blitzkrieg and that we should successfully bring it to an end. So I really won't delay, but first of all, I have to point out that if responsibility is thrown here from one side to the other, we should realise that this budget is not the budget of the previous government, nor the future government. It's kind of a parentless child, because the government's demise has only made a certain correction based on current economic data. And if we are not satisfied either on the left or on the right with this proposal, it may be worth noting that this dissatisfaction has various reasons. The right - and we could hear that from Stanjura and others - would like to continue the major cuts and would like to press the deficit on, say, your 99 billion proposed. Just for the record, I will remind you that when Mr Kalousek's budget outlook was approved in 2012, even 85 billion were proposed there, if I remember correctly. But all this was done in conditions where it was not clear how the economy would evolve. Minister Kalousek himself, when he prepared a new bill of budget for 2014, he increased the balance to 105 billion, because it was surprising to the world, but our recession in the Czech Republic was deeper and lasted longer than in other countries. This is also worth noting. So if right-wing parties are now turning to us to return budgetary policy to their original consolidation corridor, to cut and cut more, and we already know that their policy of cuts basically led to the fact that the performance of the Czech economy was about one percentage point lower than that of developments in other countries, it really is a clear testimony that the policy of mere cuts is simply not effective enough, and that if Czech, but foreign experts also point out that it is time in that consolidation or, to put it public, cuts to ease, less consolidation, less cutting and more pressure on economic development, to promote demand, then perhaps there is something about it. After all, the surrounding countries began to do so in an appropriate form. So this is the choice between the right and the left, although this budget is neither right nor left, and we are not very happy with it across the political spectrum. If anyone is bothered by the blitzkrieg and says: what in the day, those few days we will endure even in those towns and villages, then it must be said that it is a weeping on the wrong grave. Those colleagues who sat here in the House and contributed to the dissolution of the House, and it took a while because the original proposal to dissolve the House, if I remember, was from the opposition and it was early in the summer, and only when colleagues from the coalition at the time had allowed their nerves, because apparently they understood that the prime minister of the Němcová would not see it, so they launched the whole chain, which ended with the President's contribution through the elections in October, so it had to be clear that if the elections were in October, then the House would start discussing the budget, vain glory, a month before Christmas. That couldn't have surprised us. So the little bit stressful, but still legitimate, not unconstitutional, not illegal schedule is just here, and we have to deal with it. We'll see that we may not have to negotiate between the holidays. I don't want to praise the day before tonight, it's not that important. Much more important is whether we would return the bill to recast at first reading today, because the laws remember the lower limit of the hearing. There he is, I guess, if I'm right, 20 days, but most of the time it takes longer, the more that to cut so much money, it's not just to take a red pencil and fix two three numbers. This must also be structurally balanced. It's not a bagel at the store, it takes a while, and of course the transition to the budget commission is much longer. I think that month is a very, very mild, euphemistic guess. And that, of course, already has the impact, because ordinary money will be drawn from the old budget, but investment, co-financing of European money, etc., there is a red light everywhere. So it's not true that it doesn't really matter. It doesn't matter. If, after all, we were to go back to the recast because the discontent is here, then the question is whether in this House, which is not yet clear, where exactly the coalition and opposition borders will take place, what is the new government going to want from the budget and what should the mandate be for it to be, because if we give the mandate: Mr. Administrator, you have to try harder, it should be more effective - so that the clerk should cook from it? I can't cook from that, the mandate has to be specific. And since these are the three basic numbers, of course the main is the mandate of income-expenditure-salda. But we don't agree on that anymore. On the one hand, criticism says that this proposal is not so much about budgetary support for the development of the economy, you say that what is better for development is consolidation, to be cut off. We can't agree on that. So if it does not come from a reasonable mandate to redeploy this budget, it is only a game, but it certainly does not have the conceptual basis for such a refund. And that is also one of the reasons why we think, even though we are very critical of what we have on the table, that we do not want to join it. [[14.20 hours]] I think it was a colleague of Fiala who took the quality of the Ministry of Finance's forecasts for economic development into his mouth about the growth of gross domestic product. True, number 1.3 is a consensual prognosis, if I'm not mistaken, of September this year. Something has happened since then, so, for example, the CNB's November forecast, which is based on its perhaps a little unexpected, not only because it was November 7th, the day of VŘSR, but an unexpected monetary intervention, so whether it will be successful, if the vision really comes true, that it will be 1 percentage point roughly higher, that is, over 2%. But if we're moving in a prognostic range of 1 to 2 percent, I'm reminding those who don't have it so much in the budget that it's about 15 billion in revenue. Crowns. This is not such a major risk, and if a more optimistic outlook is met, I have certain doubts about it, because this way of developing the economy I think is not appropriate and that some opposite phenomena will also appear, for example, that demand will not go up, that export support will be offset by import impacts etc., etc., but so if a better option is fulfilled, it will be less stress in the budget for next year. I just wouldn't look for the basic risk here. The biggest problem was in 2009, and it really was very difficult to predict. But remember how then the finance minister Mr Kalousek convinced us that it wasn't worth returning the budget, that if he planned the budget to a plus 4.5 GDP, and the reality then showed a minus 4 percent of GDP, so he wouldn't do what he would redo the budget. But that was 9 percentage points at the time, so multiply it by what difference it was, and also the management of the following period looked like it, even the degree of uncertainty. So what's going on? For sure, or for pushing your own way, that every budget that isn't ready in Mr. Emeritus Minister's workshop is wrong? I don't think that's the point. What is really essential is the dispute over the balance. This is where the right-hand and left-hand concept confronts. Of course, the balance that fits the Maastricht criterion, and in the case of a successful GDP forecast, even the 112 billion will fit below 3% of GDP, should not be a major problem. Because there's no commitment here. It's the new House, the previous government was planning to reduce the deficit to zero at a record pace. She herself acknowledged that she would not make it by 2016, but this House, perhaps even the future government, does not have such a commitment, and it is sufficient for us that we will not fit below 3%, so we will not get into the excessive deficit procedure, and that, therefore, even if we happen to adopt a fiscal compact or any other measure, there is no negative in this sense. But what we should be clear about, and that is not, and that is not going to happen, so that we sit here for 14 days longer, is what an economic strategy is supposed to look like, how a mixed effort to consolidate public finances and promote economic growth should be. And that is not clear, it can also be seen that the Czech National Bank has not consulted very intensively, now I deliberately commit euphemism, I dare say that it has not consulted at all, that it has pressed in the currency area without knowing how the fiscal will turn out. At the same time, any economic strategy must be implemented comprehensively, taking into account industrial, tax and so on. And that's clearly not what's happening here. So if I sum up, overall, this proposal is not good, there is a lack of sufficient pro-growth policy. It is not worth just talking about making public administration more efficient, but it needs to be done specifically, and this is not done when reading the basic numbers in the budget and it will take time. Because it means setting specific rules. Only by strangling the flaps can we get into a situation where we trigger a boomerang effect, a so-called delayed need. You don't feed, you're a public administration, you don't fulfill your certain competencies, there will be a demand that will be satisfied when the money comes, you have such a yojo effect, or a boomerang effect that will constantly reproduce. Clearly, then, miracles cannot be done. Structurally, we can look at the budget in a very short - yes, I am aware of that - second reading. Here I carefully cut my ears, as if there was already a consensus from potential future government benches that certain money would be transferred to the common government reserve, and that will be decided sometime, as I know, in the spring, when the amendment to the State Budget Act should be discussed. That is a very important thing, because if this is being announced, it should be said with a certain political authority, say, because we also think that we cannot wait for everything except for the budget in 2015. And if there is to be a more complex amendment in the spring and these government reserves are to be used, so that it doesn't turn out to be something of a svatý Dynda -- maybe it does, maybe it doesn't -- it should be here in some way. Because it would be a good idea for this comprehensive amendment to be consulted more widely, because it really should be linked to a hint of a future new better economic strategy. Minister Fischer, when he went to his chair, had no idea that the minister was going to resign, so he had the ambition to talk about the start of a new economic policy, more pro-growth etc., etc. It didn't happen. But if the new government has similar ambitions, this is exactly where, at zero, time zero, this new economic thinking should start. And on top of that, I'd like to hear some more detailed explanation, because it also falls on a bowl of scales, why let the train go at first reading, not to complicate it with any delays. It doesn't matter if it's 105 or 99. It is in the trend of former governments, but it is not in the trend that corresponds to the current state of the economy. There's a certain fiscal here - let's not call it expansion, but by poking - a certain fiscal poking is more than appropriate. And more conceptually, we need to figure out how the entire economic policy will be managed. That's the assignment, if it's enough to set up a Deputy Prime Minister, that's already been done. I remember my colleague Mertlík was a vice-chairman without a portfolio, he did some learned lectures on how economic policy was done, and that was roughly the end of it because he didn't have leverage. So I guess this isn't how we get to the new economic strategy. But I think conceptual change should be prepared. I look forward to it and hope that it will be consulted not only within the government or its silent opponents, but also across the entire political spectrum. At the same time I confirm that the political position of the KSČM is - first reading to approve, second reading to attempt partial reasonable correction, and third reading will, of course, show up according to what we will do in those 14 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u26	Another party to the debate is Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Chairman of the Mr. Jerman]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand from the list entered into the debate that you are relieved to take note of our statement that we will not be obstructing, and therefore you do not want to apply to the debate anymore because it is Friday afternoon, it is an advanced time, everyone wants to go home. After all, when we resigned by approving the timetable to discuss the state budget properly and carefully, we said at the last point that we would not. Then why would we look like that now? So I nevertheless thank you for having given me the floor, probably as the last one entered into the discussion, and allow me to briefly comment on the draft law on the state budget at first reading and to submit a proposal on the TOP 09 to amend the basic parameters. I stress that at first reading we do not discuss the law as a whole, but we only discuss its basic parameters, namely income, expenditure, balance and relations with local budgets. [[14.30 hours]] I can't be completely objective. I have to apply for my work from June this year, when I, as Minister of Finance, submitted to the Government a proposal for expenditure of 1 bil for 2014. 98,314 billion. CZK with revenues corresponding to projected growth of 0.8% of GDP and a deficit of 105 billion. CZK of the state budget, with a public budget deficit of 2.8 %. I must remind you that this was a consistent position with regard to the long-term fiscal policy of the government, a fiscal policy that gained the Czech Republic's extraordinary confidence in capital markets and confidence in extremely low interest rates and an extremely cheap debt service and the financing of claims of the Czech Republic from foreign sources. I remind you that in 2010 we took over the public budget at a point of almost collapse, to almost 6 percent of the general government deficit of GDP, that within three years we were able to reduce it safely below 3%, and that the proposal under discussion in June by the government at the time of Petr Nečas meant a further reduction of the deficit even more safely than 3%. The more fun it sounds to me the argument of Prime Minister Rusnok - [[He's turning to the government bench.]] At the moment, the state budget of the Czech Republic represents the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Environment for the Government of the Czech Republic. [[Member of the Faltynek bench: Minister of Finance.]] I'm sorry, then everything's fine. I'm sorry. - Prime Minister Rusnok, who, despite the increase in his government's spending, said that the deficit proposed would be safe - and the word emphasized it - safely below 3%. He's 2.96. 0.1% is about 4 billion. And he's safely below 3%, like each of us doesn't safely trip over a rock if we go down a rocky path. That's... that's a political statement, but it's not a statement you can trust. In any case, the adoption of this bill is changing the trend that has won us extraordinary capital market credit that the public budget deficit is falling. He'll rise. If we're very lucky, it'll rise just around 3%, it won't cross them, but that 3% isn't a holy number. But in any case, it will. In any case, if you approve this budget, the public budget deficit in the next year, i.e. the level of debt unnecessarily increased, everything will be unnecessarily larger than it is necessary, because you have approved the government's 1-bill spending. 211 billion, although these are expenditures for which the government has no particular justification. The proposal that we put forward, which, as I repeat, was just under one trillion, was one hundred billion. 98 billion was the proposal - and I say now quite openly and completely self-critically as Minister of Finance of the then government - was the proposal that I put forward as a politician, knowing that I am putting forward a draft budget by the election year and that no government, because we did not anticipate early elections, and that no government in the election year wishes for any special collapse or excess in those first months before the election for social reasons or because of lack of public funds. [[Prime Minister Rusnok is coming to his place]] I mean, the proposal was more generous than I would have considered professionally right. I mean, he's been heavily politically accentated. I mean, he respected the fact that it was going to be an election budget. And that all ministers were extremely positively surprised in the then Nečasův government, because Kalousek was always known for cheapskates, so everyone was satisfied and everyone could imagine how they would manage their chapters without any political and technical risks to the satisfaction of the public. This was the proposal for limits in June 1998. Then the connotations that occurred, the government fell, the official Rusnokův government was appointed. It has taken over our competences and started preparing the deficit which Minister Fischer - and I would like to thank him - has been extremely responsible for this. Some things have been corrected, but the real development of the economy has been respected and expenditure options of the state have been respected. With this, Minister Fischer came to Rusnokův - or perhaps Zemanův, or perhaps Pecinův - governments, who explained to him what the Minister of Finance's task was: that he no longer determined the fiscal policy of the state that he was an invoicing of some political priorities that they wanted to succeed and fail in these elections. I therefore stress once again: what we are discussing is not Fischerův's budget, however perhaps Minister Fischer will not agree. That's not Fischerův's budget, that's Pecinův's budget. They rewrote it to him in the government. He came to the government with some budget that had a head and a heel and which I, as former finance minister, would be willing to support and I would be willing to fight here for Minister Fischer. What Mr. Pecina, Rusnok and others have rewrote to him is no longer a budget that gives any logic. This is a budget which, of course, must respect about 80 per cent of the mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenditures that are due to legislation that no official government can overwrite, but where there has been a completely senseless increase in some items under the ambitions of the strongest candidates of the SPOZ party. That means, mostly, there was an increase in the Ministry of the Interior chapter on operating expenses, another senseless recruitment of policemen that we have most within the European Union, so Mr Pecina wanted more of them, so he added half a billion to it, because at that moment he was the strongest horse of Mr. President in the government of Jiří Rusnok. Then added another senseless - about 3 billion. - operating expenses for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I stress, not the social benefits, but the operating expenditure of this chapter, the purchase of its buildings and the operation of civil servants. Then almost 3 billion, or 2.902 billion. National programmes of the Ministry of Agriculture chapter. Although we are part of the European Union's single agricultural policy, even though today the addressees are so-called. Top-ups take more money than they could ever imagine, so Rusnokův's government has even strengthened these resources from the European Union for the benefit of the Agrofert Group by 3 billion. You're three billion. The CZK, which will be collected from these subsidies by Agrofert, will either logically be missing somewhere else, or we will borrow more from them. [[Mr. Faltynek from the bench: you know that's not true.]] And when we do that, the Rusnokův government increased it by 12.3 billion to national resources. national resources at the expense of the deficit. It continued to be optimistic with regard to the European Union's revenue, so, overall, it envisages spending by 24 billion compared to what we proposed in June. More. What about it? The original deficit proposal was 105 billion, 105 and 24 would be 129 billion. and that would seem rude and perhaps even to credit rating agencies, to the European Commission and to the public too brave. [[14.40 hours]] If we have too much spending, completely unjustly, and if we want to have a lower deficit, we will invent revenue. And so at that moment, when Minister Fischer brought a forecast of 0.8 growth to the government, the Home Secretary said, that's a small growth, we're going to make more growth. The Minister of the Interior is certainly a much stronger prognostic of future economic development. The Minister of Finance left the government with information that it wouldn't be 0.8, as he thought, but it would be 1.3, as he didn't think. I pay my deep respects to the Minister of Finance's professional apparatus, which was so loyal that when the Minister of Finance had to listen to the Minister of the Interior, the apparatus of the Minister of Finance thought and said: "Yes, it will be so." First, the government raised the assumption of growth at the instigation of the Finance Minister, which corresponds to about 0.5 percent of GDP. The Minister of Finance, as a beaten dog from the government, left with this information and to honor the Ministry of Finance's apparatus, let it be said that he supported his Minister of Finance's apparatus and said that it would indeed be so. At first, we had an increase in growth estimates for the government, and two weeks later, we had a forecast for the Ministry of Finance. My grin about how you accepted it, Minister, and my deep respect for the loyalty of your apparatus. At this point, the Treasury is predicting 1.3. Okay. Maybe. Maybe not. It's very optimistic. After she took her intervention step - in my opinion the right step - the Czech National Bank, it is a little more likely, but the more so is the sentence behind my back of the Prime Minister, who said: I did not believe them when I agreed to this income as Prime Minister. It wasn't until I met with the Czech National Bank's measure that surprised me, so I took a breather, and I thought maybe it would work out for us if we blew it up like this. Maybe, maybe not. [[Laughs in the hall.]] The prediction is extremely optimistic. In my opinion, it will not come true, but of course I wish it would come true. In any case, gentlemen, we are 1.5 minus before we begin. Because you have 10 billion revenue from the sale of telecommunications licenses in revenue, you sold for 8.5. I'm not criticizing you. But before we started, we're 1.5 billion minus. In addition, we all know that we are 1.5 minus fiscal targeting, but we are 10 minus in the accrual measurement of the deficit, because the sale of licenses is an extraordinary and unrepeatable income, and as such it cannot be included in the revenue and expenditure balance, and hence the public finance deficit, so we are 10 minus, and you have it included, so we are 10 minus before we start. 1.5 fiscally, 8.5 accrual, and we haven't started yet. It's 17 inflatable. With a similar approach, therefore, you were extremely generous with the expenses, as I say again, that were pre-election, but were not generous enough for the spoiled candidates of the SPOZ to serve as Minister of the Interior, leader in Zlinsk, Minister of Transport, Minister in Prague, who forced themselves under the authority of the only legitimacy that was here. This government has no legitimacy. The last House doesn't trust this government. This House does not trust this government. The public does not trust this government because all those who have run for office in this government have not been elected. This government has no legitimacy, no confidence, yet its decisive members have claimed a billion-dollar increase in chapter items, because it was Zemanův's favorites, whether they were the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Transport, and they have recovered an increase in national resources by at least 12 billion in vain, and they have also invented co-financing from the European Union. We are in a situation where the government invented revenue 17 billion higher and invented spending 24 billion higher. Thus, the proposed deficit of 105 billion was not enough, it became a deficit of 112 billion. I am able to understand that 7, 10, maybe 12 billion from a macroeconomic point of view is not a major problem, but it is extremely serious information from a trend point of view. Again, in 2010, we took over public budgets at the edge of the collapse. After Fischerův's extremely popular government, we took over public budgets at the edge of the break-up to about 6 percent of GDP deficit. Thanks to extremely difficult measures, political costs, technical costs, we cut deficits by more than 1% year after year to get them safely under control. From 5,8 to 4.6, from 4.6 to 3.2 and already in 2012 we were safely below 3%, and if this government is willing to comply with at least elementary laws, this year will also end safely. Really safe under 3%. Next year, I refer to Prime Minister Rusnok's sentence that the next year, given that 2.99 is safely below 3% in those optimistically bloated incomes, it was a yoke of the year, Prime Minister. Many analysts of the banking sphere laughed at that. It's really safe! Safe. Safely below 3 % by 1/10 percent. It's not safe. It won't be below 3%. And even if it was, it's gonna be more than this year. So we're slowly digging out of a shallow and long recession, so, despite a slight increase in the product, we're going to increase the deficit. We're gonna spend more money. There's no reason for that! It's not even an election year. The moment this House allows this money to be spent on the government, it doesn't apply to what some of you here think we're going to do in a year and that we're going to save. We won't! You may allow the government to spend it on one purpose, but on another. Maybe you don't spend it on water and bees because it's gonna be too many people. Maybe you'll regroup the money and spend it more on pigs 'cause Babiš bought all those pigs. But I'm sure it'll be worth something. I'm sure you won't spend less money. The decision to spend $1 trillion of 211.3 billion is now made. And any further discussion about saving it, then going back to it, is just hypocritical. And I, if I live, will remind you. [[14.50 hours]] If you really want to spare, if you really mean it, if it's not just hypocritical talk, then save it now! So just tell the government that they can't spend 1 beat. 211 billion, but they can spend at least 12 billion. less from national sources. She doesn't spend it after that. Then he saves. No other way! If you find the courage to do this, according to the law, the minimum deadline is 20 days, a maximum of 30 days. Again, I would like to make clear from Mr Jurečka's mistake that it could take two to three months, God knows when we would have a new government. Well, there's gonna be a government here all the time. This means that even the government, the illegitimate one who has never been trusted, if we put her to bed now, to reduce binding expenses, will just have to cut them down, and within a period of 20 days, they'll be able to present us with a proposal that we can then approve. Because we can't do it ourselves. We can't suggest that we're cutting expenses here. By law, all we can do is give it back to the government to reduce the expenses on our own. Then we can approve. And such a budget would be an honor for the TOP 09 MEP to approve. But to say, "We're going to approve it now, in this greedy, senseless volume that we've never agreed to, and then we're going to save - that's hypocrisy that no one can trust, co-workers and co-workers!" And if you do, I'm going to ask you every month how much you've saved and when you propose that you spend less. And you don't even know what kind of government. You may think, and I firmly hope that such a will be established, the government of the future coalition. But what if it takes three or four months? What if here by March, until April, the Rusnokův government will continue to propose such irresponsible expenses? You really think Rusnokův's government is going to come and propose to save money? No! You, if you approve them with a one-bill. 211 billion, they're gonna spend as soon as they smoke! What wouldn't they spend if you, as the Chamber of Deputies, were allowed to do so? If you really want to save money, if it's not just hypocritical pussy, forgive me that word, you're just gonna tell any future government that they have to spend a little less. That's the one beating. 211 miles. It's too much! And have them present something where they can save at least 10 percent. Either you find the courage for this decision, and it's your sovereign decision, and then you really want to save. Or you'll just talk about saving money, but at the same time you'll say, "Let the government spend what it wants." But then please don't tell me you want to save money. Then you just say something else and you do something else. From this point of view, I would like to propose a resolution that respects the regime of Chapter 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies on the discussion of the draft law on the state budget: The Chamber of Deputies returns the basic parameters of the state budget to the Government of the Czech Republic with a recommendation: Revenue lower by at least 7 billion. Expenditure less than 12 billion Deficit up to 105 billion. Deadline for submitting a new proposal: 20 days. If we were totally destructive opposition, which would insist only on one truth, I wouldn't suggest 7 and 12, I would suggest 17 and 24. But we want to respect that something happened in the meantime. And what we didn't agree to. This House has agreed to increase expenses for state insured people, in my opinion, but it was a minority opinion, a totally wrong move. But if this House made it, it simply increased the mandatory expenses for the next and the next years by at least 5 billion. And it's impossible to ignore. Several similarly unfortunate steps have already happened, and we respect that. That's why it's not 24, it's 12. But if you want to keep those senselessly bloated expenses based on the ambitions of the SPOZ, which no one has chosen, these senselessly bloated expenses according to the priorities of the SPOZ, which no one has chosen, if you want to keep and approve and then say you want to save, then you're just a joke! If you're serious about this investigation, cut the expenses. At least 12 billion. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause for Members of the TOP 09.]] .
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u28	Now, please, Mr. Zavadil with the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Through you, Madam Vice-President, I would like to say one thing to Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Yes, you took over the economy in 2010 in a state that was close to destruction. But you forgot to say one thing. Not this, it was not only after Fischerův's government, but also after Topolánkův's government, when you were the Minister of Finance, where Petr Nečas was the Minister of Labour and where the problem was created for you to take over the situation in 2010 in which you took over!
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u30	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u31	Madam Vice-President, Madam Members, I would like to respond to some of the criticisms of Mr Kalousek. I hope that this House meeting is at least recorded on some medium, which will believably show what was said here, because I couldn't even believe some things. Indeed, we have consciously increased expenditure in this budget against the expenditure of the last budget because we reflected the situation of the Czech economy. This economy has been de facto growing for five years, five years de facto stagnating, in some years it has grown very slightly, in the last two years it has fallen - unlike the surrounding economies. All international and domestic relevant studies from absolutely independent sources state that fiscal restrictions have contributed significantly to negative economic growth if you want to develop, the Czech Republic. And they strongly recommend releasing this macroeconomic barrier, otherwise the Czech Republic will not be able to get into growth only by export. This year, we will have a surplus of around 300 to 350 billion foreign trade balance. CZK, this is already a level of around 10 percent of total exports, and yet we will have a decline in the economy, because exports alone are not able to tighten its development to a positive level in a normal economy if we have stagnation and decline in investment if we have stagnation and decline in domestic consumption. Domestic consumption, that means government and private consumption. So what is depicted here as some kind of spending is merely restoring the normal state in a wide range of public activities - and you will be able to get to know it very soon and very closely in the various committees. You will hear from the ministers, you will, of course, hear from the rapporteurs what the status of agendas in some departments, when it is not a rational investigation, it is an investigation that, and I am not saying that there are no reserves, there are huge reserves, requires systemic changes. Changes to the law. Different arrangement. It's all true. But the reserves in the current agendas that lead to the destruction of those agendas, that's not an investigation. That's just nonsense. Specific things. [[15.00 hours]] Police, yes, we've increased the costs in the police area. Mr. Kalousek says there are plenty of cops. Other experts, and I don't know, many of you are mayors here, many of you are deputies, you know the situation in some regions, how many police officers are on the streets, how many police officers are on duty. Operating expenses of the Ministry of Labour. Yes, we have increased the operating expenses of the Ministry of Labour, because after the devastation that occurred at the Ministry of Labour, the agendas are not implemented, the employment offices are payroll tellers that they do not care about any active policy at all. Oh, my God, we're responsible for making this system work when the state pays it! After all, this is not possible in a situation where we have record unemployment. Agricultural payments. Let the people of agriculture and these fields tell us how we are against the national payments of other countries, what is the competitive situation there. Don't be mad at me if the Minister of Finance left like a ratty dog, I didn't notice it, but I noticed very much that Mr Kalousek's argument is completely unfair, but totally unfair, and I just hope that the citizens had the opportunity and will have the opportunity to hear it. Licenses. Telecommunications licenses will be auctioned again in the second round. So the plan that we have put in our budget, which, by the way, Minister, by your means, Madam President, you had in this year's budget and the next one, is also a unique budgetary policy! Young people will still learn that when someone tells them how one income can be given within two years. Well, they're gonna keep going, and the plan's gonna come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u32	Now I'll ask Mr. Fischer, who's next in line. Or are you going to let Mr. Kalousek go, do you have a deal? Then I'll ask Mr. Faltýnek. You'll have to wait, Mr. Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u33	Madam President, Madam Members, I initially thought I would not, but I must. One. The year 2010 and the disruption of public finances. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to let Minister Janota stomp around here. And I have to stand up for him, he can't do it anymore. He's not with us anymore. It was Janotův's package, however it turned out in this House, and I was not happy about it, which prevented the real collapse of public and state finances. [[Very emotional:]] So I'd like us to keep this in the right guard. Humans, too! Even human. So if anyone here is talking about the biggest yoke of the year in relation to the Prime Minister, I say, this is the biggest sadness that can be committed here, and I am very seriously opposed to it! Ladies and gentlemen, we've all learned from Eduard Janota how to make that budget. Longer time, shorter time and so on. So let him sleep in peace and let's not talk about the collapse of public finances in 2010! Because I didn't... I'm talking about myself right now, but I can't do anything but link it to his name. And I don't want that! Well, that's the first thing. I'm sorry I got a little upset, but I can't be unemotional here. Easy now. I'm not an exponent of the SPOZ or an agent of this political group, and as you know, I'm not even his candidate. From the government meeting, and sometimes I feel that I didn't sit there, but Minister Kalousek, as he knows the details, after a hard budget debate, I didn't leave like a smashed dog, but quite like a person after a difficult but normal debate, for which I am nota bene paid. That's to make it right when it comes to subjective things. Nonsense prognosis or blown up prognosis and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, the 0.8 was, of course, an incomprehensible low and pessimistic prognosis, however - and I will now not train anyone from the statistics, what is a point and interval estimate, but even where it was 0.8, there were 1.3 as the most optimistic part of the forecast, which then became the center of the interval. Just so we know what we're talking about. European Commission - 1.6, other international institutions, some 1.6, 1.7, Czech National Bank 2.1, only OECD is 1.1, which is 1.3. 1.3 is still a conservative estimate as far as forecasting institutions are concerned. The average of all international and domestic forecasts for next year, which is systematically monitored by the Ministry of Finance, is 1.6. Well, just to be able to deal with the numbers somehow. Next thing. In Mr Kalousek's speech, you have seen the word "June" several times. June and the government agreed, the government had limits like this. I've been making a comparison here to just these spending limits, what's the change there, and I've learned here in the following debate that it was just work material, that I've even gotten it somewhere under my hands and abused it, and now I'm doing some numerical operations on it. No, the material is, of course, available, it is a government document and has been approved by Resolution No. 433 of this year. Just to put the facts on the table. The Prime Minister here spoke of the MPSV and the situation in this ministry. I'm not gonna say that again. I'm not in the habit. And, among other things, when we're so worried about our expenses in the different chapters. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had a wonderful opportunity to get to know what expenditures are, how huge they are, how they are done in a decentralised way for communication and computer technology services, how much money, how many tens or hundreds of millions are flowing behind law offices. It was at a resort. It's called the Treasury Department. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u34	I'll ask Mr. Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I will be very brief. I would only react to the agriculture that has been said here, and I will not delay so that Mr Kalousek can continue. [[Glee in the hall.]] The Czech Republic and Czech agriculture will receive approximately 32 billion from the European Union next year according to the current exchange rate conversion. Crowns. The 15-year-old, Mr Kalousek's former Vice Prime Minister, is sure to co-finance his farmers somewhere between 20 and 30 percent of the European Union's subsidies on average. That's widely known information. So let's compare the percentage of our co-financing of our agriculture department with those figures that the former Vice Prime Minister has spoken here. I just want to say one sentence. We all know who, how and how badly he set up the entire system of subsidies to agriculture after we joined the Union. It is simply the responsibility of the two previous governments that our country has unfortunately lost its food self-sufficiency and that today we are buying food that is imported from abroad, and that is not what our people are doing. And we had it in the program, and we want to change that, and we don't want any more money. We don't want any more money. And just so you know, my friends. This year, in 2013, the top-ups, the so-called National Supplementary Payments, are at about 90 million. Crowns. So much for explaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u36	Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Just to be clear, I've never been vice prime minister. I was never a vice prime minister, so I couldn't say anything like that. I would like to stress that I have never said the term food self-sufficiency. I respect that you're putting him in the future coalition agreement, that he's extremely important to you. And I would like to say that I believe that the term food self-sufficiency in 2013 is in favour of producers of fake sausages in the Czech Republic, not in favour of the public and consumers of the Czech Republic. [[Glee in the hall.]] The term food self-sufficiency is something that makes their life needs more expensive to people in the Czech Republic, not more comfortable! [[15.10 hours]] It increases comfort, Mr. Faltynek, a glomerate like you. Yes, you urgently need the term food self-sufficiency in government policy so that Agrofert has its subsidies. But a Czech consumer and a person who does not want to poison himself with any sausage does not need the term food self-sufficiency. [[Laughing in plenary]] It only needs the term quality corresponding to a reasonable price. But this is not a discussion of a draft state budget. I understand Prime Minister Rusnok, who says: Yes, we have consciously raised expenses, we have consciously raised expenses, because we believe that this was necessary given the economic situation. We simply believe that we need to spend more in the next year in order for people in the Czech Republic to do better. It's a legitimate procedure. I never claimed to be the bearer of the only correct economic fiscal policy. There's just so many of these approaches, they have advantages and disadvantages. I am deeply convinced that deficits need to be reduced for our future and prosperity. Prime Minister Rusnok believes that expenditure needed to be strengthened at the moment. And who among us is right, history will judge us. I don't know at this point. I believe my strategy as much as Prime Minister Rusnok believes mine, and we both speak equally honestly. But those who speak completely dishonestly are those who say: Yes, let us now approve of the higher expenses, because we want to save. This is you through Mr President. [[to Mr Faltynek]] I respect those who support my proposal and say, let's not allow this government to spend more. We're right. I respect the truth of Prime Minister Rusnok, who says: Kalousek is wrong, we should spend more next year. Whoever's right about you and me is really only gonna decide that history. Whoever is really funny is you who say, "We want to save money, and because we want to save money, we will now approve the higher spending." Because we want to save money, we have to spend more. You have every right to be. You have so many votes in this House, along with a number of comrades from other parties... [[Looking at the left side of the House. Laughs in the hall.]] No, I just looked left by accident. [[Laughter.]] You have so many votes in this House along with a number of fellow travelers from other sides that you can also vote that the water flows uphill. But don't try to tell us you want to save money, and because you want to save money, you're gonna agree to higher spending. Nobody really gets that. Either you want lower spending and you want to save money, then raise your hand for lower spending. Or maybe you want to spend money on behalf of organized minorities, whether they're called Agrofert or Capi nest, whatever, so spend the money. [[Laughing]] But don't say you want to save money. Your position today, which you present to the public, is: We want to save, and therefore we approve of higher spending. This, if you explain to anyone, I'll slap you down. I'm just pointing out that it just can't be done, at least for those who have an IQ of at least 90. Dear Jan Fischer, I would never talk about our late friends. The question is, which one of us knew them longer and who was more of a friend with them. Now that you've done it, let me remind you that my friend, who's deceased, wept on my shoulder many times, as unfortunately, the essential measures cannot be taken because his boss is a coward. Have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u38	With a factual remark, please, Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u39	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I feel like we've been spinning around a lot. But, through you, I would like to say to the President, I would almost say to the Agrofert Group Funding Committee, as I have changed my business name, that whoever set the conditions for drawing European money from 2007 to 2013 prepared it in 2005. And it wasn't Topolánkův's or Nečasův' government. And you, Mr President, through Madam President, as a former Social Democrat, should know well that it was Paroubkův's government. [[to Mr Faltynek]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u40	I'll ask Mr. Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u41	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, he'll give me nothing but to respond to those remarks about food self-sufficiency. The term food self-sufficiency, it seems, is still considered a part of our political spectrum to be a dirty word. I don't think so. After all, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, if it is the second decade, we can say that it has for decades food self-sufficiency, a course towards food self-sufficiency, as one of its main components of agrarian and food policy for one simple reason. It's not just about protecting our food market, protecting our manufacturer, protecting our food man. That's for sure. But it is also about the jobs that will remain in the Czech, Moravian and Silesian landscape preserved either in the production of food or in the maintenance of the landscape, and we do not have to pay someone else to buy food from imports. After all, I think that words about jobs are constantly up to date, and one of the actions leading to increasing or maintaining the number of jobs important in the countryside is precisely the direction towards food self-sufficiency. Just a sip. At that time, when the KSČM included this direction into its policy, almost no one in the Czech Republic knew that Agrofert existed. After all, the Czech, Moravian and Silesian farmer and food farmer is not far from here, and is not even mostly just about Agrofert. These are other, other and other businesses, or maybe also natural persons, or other legal forms that have nothing to do with Agrofert without me wanting to stand up for Agrofert specifically. Food self-sufficiency is more important for everyone, even for our entire society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u42	I've got another motion logged in for a point of fact here, Mr. Holeček... So he's canceling. I'll ask Mr. Votava again. [[Mr Votava is implying something, Madam President.]] Mr. Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u43	I'm sorry. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, I no longer want to respond to the speakers, especially not to the rhetoric of President Kalousek. I just want to re-announce the position of social democracy. Although this budget is not our budget, it is certainly not ideal, we are not cheering over it, so we will support it at first reading, because we do not really want there to be a budgetary provisional to put the Czech Republic into some uncertainty and chaos, I am not afraid to say it. The Czech Republic needs a stable environment and therefore the state budget for 2014 needs to be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u44	Since I no longer have anyone to enter into the debate, I am ending the general debate and I will ask the Minister of Finance for the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debates in this house, and you who have been sitting here for a long time, and you who have been sitting here for a shorter time, are sharp, sometimes bad, sometimes personal. I'm used to it. I don't love it, but I'm used to it. So in the end, I can say: good debate with everything. [[15.20 hours]] What matters is what I want to tell you. I really intercede for you to show by your vote that you are going to release the budget, which, once again, is the art of the possible. For many reasons and with regard to many limits, it is not ideal, but it will not become ideal if it is overworked, overworked rapidly. I don't know what kind of political assignment he'd be under, and I can't do it without it. The state budget is a policy. What is on the table is something that is based on realistic estimates of growth, realistic estimates of income and reasonable expenditure. I know that the time series knows that it is turning somewhere towards a higher deficit, but where the poor deficits turned, the low-pressured, so super-restrictive budget policies created a different time series - a time series of systematic declines, where this super-restrictive fiscal policy and this paradigm saved, saved, saved, among other things, I say, so many quartels sent this economy into recession. Let's keep that in mind, too. Therefore, the budget is built as it is: slightly expansionary. It's not a miracle, it's not the restoration of fragile growth, so I'm begging you again, I appeal to you, let him read again. Thank you for the discussion and for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u46	Mr Kalousek - Mr Kalousek. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u47	You can call me Mirka, Madam Vice-President. [[Thunderous laughter and applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance has asked the question of what political task they should redo this. Well, based on what else, and now I'm turning to businessmen in the Yes ranks, based on what other assignment than offering lower expenses. We don't want to let you spend 1 trillion 211 billion, we want to let you spend at least 12 billion less! That's an awfully simple political assignment, just like the board of directors do to their management, just like you know, exactly the same as former Rector Rais knows about the academic Senate. You just bring a budget to somebody, he laughs and says, "Dear friend, I'm not giving you that much!" You can only spend less. And I am asking you very much to give this simple signal to the government in the interest of the trend of deficit reduction, debt reduction. The deadline for processing is 20 days, and I guarantee you I could do it myself in three days. The budget has 1 trillion 211 billion and 12 billion, which is less than 1%, I guarantee you I can do it in three days! That means there's no legal time - 20 days at least, 30 days tops, which is why I suggested 20 days as a minimum time limit. But I really guarantee it's not a sophisticated and complicated thing. I can do that in three days. Anyone who knows anything about public budgets knows they can remake it in three days. And at this point, you have the opportunity to tell any future government, whatever Rusnokův, Sobotkův, Babiš's, Babišův's, Stanjurův Jourová's government, to be gender-balanced, I don't know what the government will be here, but whatever future government you can say to the sovereign, we don't want you to spend so much! We want to save money! Spend at least 12 billion less! That is the point of my resolution, and that is my request to all those who promised their constituents that they would save. Because if you allow the government to spend more, they just spend more! Now I appeal to all of you for what you promised your constituents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u48	Another enrollment is Mr Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to make the situation worse for the Vice-President in her proceedings, when we are already after the end of the debate, but I understand that the Club President has priority rights and can speak at any time, so I just point out that I understand that my colleague Kalousek, and my colleagues here know this, could do a lot in three days. We know what he did in one three years, the second three years. I don't think he should show us!
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u50	I will therefore ask Mr Votava, the rapporteur, to implement us in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u51	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, there was a motion for a resolution from President Kalousek. I'm looking at him. I think it's voteable. It was not delivered to me in writing, but I think everyone understood what was going on. I don't know if there's an objection, if there's a need to repeat it...? [[No!]] It's not. So I guess we'd vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u52	Absolutely. If there is no request from the petitioner to read what he has proposed once more, and we all know what we are voting on, and I am convinced that this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and we can vote on it, as well as the rapporteur, then, of course, there is nothing stopping us from voting. Before I begin the vote, I will ask the rapporteur and the Minister to state their position on this proposal whether they agree or disagree or whether they are neutral on this proposal. Mr. Secretary? [[You can't hear it, the microphone isn't on.]] Excuse me? If you turned your mic on, it'd be easier. [[- Disagree.]] Disagree. The rapporteur? [[Rapporteur: Also disapproval.]] Thank you. If there are no objections and we all know what we're voting on, I'm going to put you all out first. I will ask you to re-enlist with your cards, and I will ask you to be patient for a moment to issue a replacement card to Mr Stanjur. [[After a while:]] Yes, Mr Stanjura has a replacement card number one. I'll give him some room to sign up. Everything's fine, we all know what we're voting on. We are therefore voting on the proposal from Mr Kalousek for the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. I'll start the vote and ask who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 3, registered is 178, for 34, versus 94. The motion was not accepted. Mr Kaňkovský and Mr Adamec, I assume that they do not make a factual statement, so I am erasing them. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u53	We would now vote on the resolution as presented by the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-001-001.u54	Yes, so we would vote on the entire press 6/1 including the commandments of individual chapters to individual committees. Is there any objection to one vote? It's not like that. Initiating vote. I will ask who is in favour of this motion for a resolution to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered is 180, for 133, versus 33. I note that the motion for a resolution has been adopted and that the various chapters have been directed to the relevant committees, as stated in press number 6/1. That would end this point. I would like to thank the rapporteur, I would also thank the Minister. [[15.30 hours]] Please don't break up yet. Given that this was de facto the only possible point at this meeting that we could discuss, however, the other two points were included, that is, point 2 and point 3, which were an interpellation in case the meeting extends until Thursday, so I will ask you to vote off these two points. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees that we take these two points off the agenda of this meeting, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 5, registered 179, for 167, versus 3. The motion was accepted. We have exhausted all the points of the third meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm ending this meeting. Thank you for your participation. I'll meet you at the fourth meeting that's called for Tuesday, 10th of this month. Have a nice rest of the day, have a nice weekend, and I look forward to seeing you.
