ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-005-004.u1	4. Proposal for the establishment of a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the General Inspection of Security Councils and the manner in which it is established or elected According to Article 57 (2) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is not necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 of Law No. 341/2011 Coll., on the General Inspection of Security Corps and on the Amendment of Related Acts, the Chamber of Deputies establishes a special supervisory body for the control of the activities of the General Inspection of Security Corps consisting of Members designated by the Chamber of Deputies and the number of members not designated by the law, therefore needs to be established. The proposals could be heard in a detailed debate. I personally propose the number of members to nine. Pursuant to Article 47 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this supervisory body be appointed as the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, and in accordance with Article 115 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, I propose that the Commission be set up on the basis of the principle of proportional representation. I shall make a motion for a resolution. Chamber of Deputies I. Establishes a permanent commission The Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the General Inspection of Security Corps, consisting of nine Members; II. provides that the Commission shall establish itself on the basis of the principle of proportional representation. I am opening a general debate. No one's checking in. I am ending the general debate. In the debate, I would refer in detail to my motion for a resolution, which first establishes the Commission and secondly sets the number to nine. I don't see any other application. I conclude the debate in detail. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with my motion for a resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 22, registered 187, for 151, against no one. I'm saying we've set up a committee, set the number to nine. I'm done discussing this point. Opening point number
