ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-004-003.u1	3. Proposal for the establishment of a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the Security Information Service and the manner in which it is established or elected I'd like my colleagues on the left this time to keep their voices down. Thank you. Obviously, I failed. I will ask the group at the door - I will not appoint you gentlemen, but I will ask you not to disturb the House's actions. Thank you. According to Article 18 of Law No. 154/1994 Coll., on the Security Information Service, the Chamber of Deputies sets up a special supervisory body for the control of the activities of the BIS, consisting of seven Members. Pursuant to Article 47 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this supervisory body be appointed as the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, and in accordance with Article 115 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, I propose that this Commission be set up in accordance with the principle of proportional representation. I submit the following motion for a resolution: Chamber of Deputies I. establishing a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the Security Information Service, consisting of seven Members; II. provides that the Commission shall establish itself on the basis of the principle of proportional representation. I will open a general debate on this. I'm asking if anyone's checking in. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I am opening up a detailed debate. Does anyone have an alternative motion for a resolution? It's not like that. I also conclude the debate in detail. We will vote on my proposed resolution. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 21, registered 187, for 160, versus 1. I note that the proposal has been adopted and the commission has been set up. I'm done with point three. Opening point number
