ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-016-021.u1	21. Draft date of the 2nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies The honourable Members, prepare the House meetings and propose to the President of the Chamber of Deputies their term is due to the Organising Committee. Since this committee will be set up at the second meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose that you adopt a resolution on this point, which you have before you and has been handed over to you. [[22.20 hours]] I would like to point out that the working proposal for the 2nd meeting was handed over to individual clubs at the beginning of the week. Before I open the debate, I ask you to take the proposal to hand, and I propose the following changes. The first amendment would be on the basis of a meeting of club presidents that the meeting would start not at 9 o'clock, but at 10 o'clock, so that we allow the various members to meet operationally. So the first change is the opening of the meeting on December 4th at 10 o'clock. After consulting the President of the Election Commission, I propose two new points that we would put at the beginning of this programme. That is, the first point would be the choice of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, and the second point would be the point of change in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. The following points are marked, which means a draft seating order would be point 3. I would like to ask whether or not there is an objection from the diaper to this amendment and to vote on my proposals, and we will vote on it. It's okay. There's no objection. Excellent. Then I will open the debate on this point after all. I'll ask if anyone's checking in. No one's checking in. I propose that we vote on the resolution that I have tabled. I'll start the vote. I'll ask who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 23. It's logged in 182, for 172, against no one. The resolution was adopted. Please don't run away. This invitation will be distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs. At this stage, I would like to ask the President of the Election Commission to take up his role and declare the relevant time limits on the basis of the completion of the decision by the Vice-President of the House. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-016-021.u2	Thank you and good evening for the last time in this place. Ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you that the electoral committee, which we have already informed you of, has set a deadline for the submission of proposals to committee members, so that Monday, 2 December, by 18 o'clock, and on the basis of the previous vote and the modification of the agenda of the 2nd meeting, the same time limit applies for the submission of proposals to the second choice of Vice-President. I will repeat this once again: The same deadline applies for the submission of proposals for candidates for the second choice of Vice-President, that is, one place that we have not yet occupied. I would like you to return these proposals to the Secretariat of the Election Commission, room 209A here at House Street, until 2 December until 6 pm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-016-021.u3	Thank you, too. I'm saying that we've discussed all the points of this meeting. That concludes item 21. I'm done with this meeting. I wish you a pleasant rest of the evening, and I would like to inform you that your IDs are prepared in front of the presentation so that you can pick them up. Those of you who want an I.D., please. Thank you for your cooperation and I'll see you soon.
