ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-004-039.u1	39. Activity Report of the Audit Board of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic from October 2012 to October 2013 /German press 18/ The report was discussed by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. The resolution was delivered to you as House Press 18/1. On this point, you also received House Document 107, which contains the resolution of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports No 11 of its 2nd meeting of 11 December of the same year. I ask that Mr Miroslav Grebeníček take the floor of the Committee's rapporteur, inform us of the committee's deliberations and present the draft resolutions of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-004-039.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to remind myself that the Audit Board of the Grant Agency controls the distribution of funds by the Grant Agency in the management of the State to which the Grant Agency has jurisdiction, discusses complaints about the provider's procedure in assessing the grant projects and presents opinions to the Bureau of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic. During the period for which the report was submitted, the Board of Auditors did not work for six months in full staffing of ten members under the law, but was always a quorum. The decisive activity of the Grant Agency is to provide special-purpose support for the solution of grant projects. The Board of Auditors carried out 54 inspections at the evaluation panels and industry commissions meetings and carried out on-the-spot checks on beneficiaries in the case of financial and accounting checks carried out in 116 cases by the control sections of the Grant Agency. The following shortcomings have been identified in the control activities: One. In assessing grant applications, different approaches to comparable methods of evaluation of grant applications persist. Two. In the evaluation of the partial and final control reports, they shall record the discrepancies between the initial proposers of the projects' planned objectives and the results achieved. Three. There is a repeat of the bad situation in previous periods when the Bureau of the Grant Agency excludes projects which have received a positive assessment without proper detailed justification. Four. Deficiencies in drawing budget appropriations without the prior approval of the Bureau, incorrect drawing and accounting of funds under individual items, unauthorized drawing of funds for expenditure not related to the project under consideration shall be repeated. There are frequent unapproved transfers between material and wage costs, expenditure not related to the grant solution, transfers of money to students working on a project to other researchers. And finally, fifth. A major problem is the decline in the success of applications for grants below 20 percent and the increase in the number of complaints for exclusion and quality projects. According to the Board of Auditors, it is also necessary to look for a solution with regard to the connection to government funding, i.e. the problem that you have discussed extensively here. A positive assessment of the reduction of the share of projects eliminated for formal reasons to only 1% can be made. The Board of Auditors appreciates the efforts of the Grant Agency to transparency and optimize the choice of opponents as a means of eliminating clientelism. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, after the reasons given by the President of the Supervisory Board of the Czech Republic's Grant Agency Václav Rejholec and the news report presented by Mr Grebeníček: First of all, it recommends: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agree with the report on the activities of the Supervisory Board of the Czech Grant Agency for the period from October 2012 to October 2013, print 18; Second, instructs the President of the Committee of Mr Jiří Zlatuška to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; Finally, thirdly, he instructs the Committee rapporteur, Mr Grebeníček, to deliver this resolution at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, which I have now basically done. Ladies and gentlemen, an annex to the Annual Report of the Audit Board of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic is also a proposal for the amount of remuneration for the annual work of the individual members of the said Board. In this context, I cannot ignore the fact that the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports after the reasons of the President of the Board of Auditors of the Czech Republic, Václav Rejholec, the news report presented by Mr Grebeníček and after the debate: First, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies shall determine according to § 36 para. 7 cuss. No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation, as amended, the amount of remuneration to members of the Audit Board of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic as follows: profesor Jana Geršlová 30,000, profesor Ladislav Jakl 20,000, profesor Vladimír Janout 30,000, docent. Věra Kalvodová 60,000, profesor Stanislav Labík 125,000, docent. Jiří Masopust 30,000, . Václav Rejholec 140,000, profesor Emanuel Šucman 25,000, . Mirka Wildmannová 50,000, . Rudolf Žák 25 000 - of course everything in crowns; Second, instructs the President of the Committee of Mr Jiří Zlatuška to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; Thirdly, the rapporteur of the Committee instructs Mr Grebeníček to present this resolution at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. Madam President, on my part everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-004-039.u3	Thank you. I'm asking my colleagues to stay calm, because I really can't hear you here after. I hereby initiate a general debate in which I have no one to report to. I am ending the general debate with this, and we will proceed to the debate in detail. Mr. Grebeníček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-004-039.u4	I will just refer to the motion for a resolution that has been made here in two levels. First, it was an activity report, and then it was a reward to members of the Grant Agency's Board of Auditors. I think it is unnecessary for me to read these two resolutions again here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-16-ps2013-004-03-004-039.u5	Since no one else has entered into a detailed debate, we will be voting on the first proposal, and this is about praising the Report on the Activity of the Czech Audit Board of the Czech Republic Grant Agency for the period from October 2012 to October 2013. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Against? This is the end of the vote. It is the number 85 vote in which 163 Members have been enrolled. For 135. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on proposal number two, and these are rewards to members of the Board of Auditors of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic. I hereby initiate the vote. Anyone in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Against? This is the end of the vote. It is the 86th vote in which 163 Members are enrolled, of which 131 pros. The motion was accepted. I'm done discussing item 39. I'm interrupting the House meeting until Thursday, December 19th until 9:00 a.m. Thank you. Have a good evening.
