ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-013-019.u1	19. Legal measure of the Senate on real estate acquisition tax / House printing 3/ I ask the Prime Minister to take the floor with the authority of the government and state the press. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-013-019.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, therefore, to introduce this legislative measure to the Senate on the tax on the acquisition of immovable property. Efficacy is expected again on 1 January 2014. It is once again a standard to recodify and adapt the current real estate transfer tax to a new private law. Originally, as in the previous case, this should have been achieved by the draft Real Estate Acquisition Tax Act, which was submitted by the Chamber of Deputies, respectively. The government of the Chamber of Deputies approved it and submitted it to the Senate. However, the Senate rejected it on 12 September and, in view of the then non-existent Chamber of Deputies, this meant the end of the legislative process. Therefore, the Government has submitted to the Senate a proposal for this legal measure of the same name and, in principle, the same content as the bill rejected. The only partial change that occurred after the rejection of the Senate law in the first attempt, i.e. in the original version, the adjustment of the taxpayer's person. The Senate then approved the draft legal measure without further amendments. This legal measure was regulated separately outside the Civil Code itself and outside the previous standard that you approved a moment ago, and it is not an amendment. The reason why it was presented separately is that it is not only an amendment to the existing law, but a proposal for a completely new legislation. This new legislation, among other things. takes into account the cancellation of the inheritance tax and the donation tax, which was integrated into the income tax of the previous approved standard. The legal measure provides for changes necessary in the context of recodification, but also contains additional or additional changes. Firstly, these are changes that lead to greater efficiency in tax collection and to a reduction in the administrative complexity of the tax administration. Here I would mention the option of choosing the parties to the purchase or exchange agreement that the payer will be the acquirer, therefore the liability will not apply, as well as the reduction in the scope of the mandatory annexes to the tax return or the possibility to attach documents only in copies. Secondly, I would mention the changes that lead to a reduction in the additional costs of taxpayers associated with tax liability. These changes include e.g. a reduction in the number of cases where the taxpayer is obliged to submit an expert opinion to the tax administrator. This change is, I think, very significant, de facto means that a number of minor real estate transactions will no longer be burdened with the obligation to provide an expert opinion from the point of view of tax. Thirdly, I would mention certain pro-growth measures. It goes for example. extending the possibility of application of the exemption in the case of all the first acquisitions of new flats and family houses and the exemption of the acquisition of immovable property used on the basis of the financial leasing by its user. Therefore, this should, in principle, stimulate the real estate market and, where appropriate, financial leasing in the real estate sector in a certain way. Let me again briefly comment on the consequences that would possibly have occurred if this standard had not passed this ratification process. In such a case, there would be a number of gaps in legislation, not taking into account conceptual changes and legal institutes newly modified by the Civil Code, such as. the right of construction, mutual donation or trust fund. This would lead to undesirable tax optimization on the part of taxpayers, or some kind of chaos. At the same time, however, there could be an undesirable increase in the tax burden in certain cases. As a result of these changes, in the event of those outages, the likely fall in recovery of the state budget for this transfer tax would be again in the order of billions of crowns. [[19.50 hours]] In the light of these facts and the process by which this legislative component has been passed as an accompanying recodification standard to the new Civil Code, I ask you, honourable Members, to approve the submitted legislative measure of the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-013-019.u3	I thank the Prime Minister and I ask the President of the Senate to inform us of the course of this legal measure in the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-013-019.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, very briefly. On September 12, the Senate rejected the bill of the same name, i.e. the real estate acquisition tax. The reason for this was reservations that the taxpayer should be the acquiring and not the seller of the acquisition tax. That was the main reason. Of course, it may seem to some people that this is a rather petty reason, but it is necessary to respect the decisions of the relatively majority or very majority in the Senate that have taken place. The government reacted very quickly. On 25 September, she presented us with a proposal for a legal measure that responded to the Senate's position. It complied with the senators' opinion and made a change which without any major problems to the Senate went through the form of legal measures. I just want to remind you that out of 63 Senators and Senators present, 52 voted for the motion, no one opposed it. A similar vote was very majority, very significantly majority, in the previous press, which we discussed here. We have again submitted this test of urgency and, like the government, if the government had not found that the conditions of the emergency test were met, it would not have submitted the proposal. And our legislation and legislation, which we have consulted outside Parliament, have also stated that there is a relatively significant potential failure to collect the state budget and that there is a threat of legal confusion, legal uncertainty that this meets the conditions of the emergency test. That is why the Senate has complied with the Government's proposal and, in the form of a legal measure, has adopted what you have on your benches today. I believe and wish that you too can conclude that it is in the interests of citizens, in the interests of public budgets, that the legal measure should be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-013-019.u5	Thank you to the President of the Senate. I will open a debate in which I have two written applications so far. Please, in Mr Adolf Beznoska's general debate, Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-013-019.u6	Mr President, colleagues, very briefly on the proposed legal measure on property acquisition tax. I'd be a little in tune with Mr. Komárek here. I'm trying to make my speech very productive. One. My personal position, which is in line with the opinion of the Civic Democratic Party MEP, is that, given the circumstances mentioned here, this legal measure must be adopted. Of course, Law No. 357/1992 Coll., which abolishes tax by inheritance, tax on donation and tax on real estate transfer. We are simply in a legislative situation. The tax on your own. I would argue with the Prime Minister a little, because I don't think there is any major simplification. Let me give you two specific examples. Tax payers are paid, or new terms appear, such as comparative value, acquisition value, agreed price. If you make practical progress in the calculation of the price and therefore the tax base, for example, by comparing 75 per cent of the agreed price with the 75 per cent comparison value, then the taxpayer has to use a table on the Internet that I have not yet seen, because it probably does not yet exist, to find the tax in question, he has to place it correctly in order to determine the comparative value. Surely you can imagine that this in itself is a rather complex task that we are burdening taxpayers in the future. Maybe we're creating space for a certain group of advisors for you. What an illustration example. I'm sure everyone now, if you think about it, you'll make the difference between the meadow and the pasture. Right? So it's not exactly simple. The second important thing that is changing in this tax is that the tax is paid in advance. This means that an advance is paid directly upon transfer of the tax return, which is calculated by the taxpayer. You can imagine, for the control of the financial office, the balancing of overpayments, the underpayments, or, for example, the mistaken classification, that this is not going to be a completely simple matter, and in my opinion, this will cause the administrative burden, the bureaucracy around the administration of this tax, to increase. I have a number of doubts with some provisions. I would shorten it to the fact that this tax, because real estate is usually acquired by funds that have already been properly taxed, has a certain immorality of second taxation, double taxation in it. For this reason, I advise that we should exclude certain legal standards, legislation from our tax system. The above legal measure on real estate tax is a classic example of this. I understand that the yield of this tax is estimated at approximately CZK 7.6 billion, which is quite significant. But since the emerging government group, the coalition group, has announced how excellent it will be to collect, how it will increase tax collection, I do not think that this is unsolvable. Journalists' questions point to who of the new Members has how many new legal standards prepared. We are competing in who will present how many of these standards. As a municipal politician, I would also like to think about which legal standards we exclude from our legal order because they complicate our lives for all of us. I can confirm that at City Hall. And the tax mentioned above, the statutory measures on the acquisition tax of immovable property, could be a beautiful example of this. So in the first round to accept, in any case, to think about it in the future, and the proposal will come here, or I will put it before us to completely abolish this tax because it has some sort of immorality encoded within it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-013-019.u7	Thank you. That was Mr. Beznoska. Before I release Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, before I let you go, there is a factual remark from Mr Kubíček. Please, you have your word and your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-013-019.u8	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. I just have a little bit of a comment on that. Both legal measures that modify tax rules are interlinked and therefore one cannot be approved and the other cannot be repealed. That's like a point of fact. And by that I would like to follow up on the shortening of the speeches that will be made here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-013-019.u9	Thank you. I beg you with a proper application from Mr Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-013-019.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, allow me to make a few comments. The real estate transfer tax or property acquisition tax is neither direct nor indirect tax, it is property tax. I would just like to say from this point on that it is not true what some of my colleagues in this auditorium claimed and lied to the public so much that the Minister of Finance, Miroslav Kalousek, wanted to forgive this property tax to the churches, that he proposed for some law or that he even forgave them. It's a lie, please! I have never designed such a thing, there has never been such a thing in any law, and it has never been mentioned in any debate. Neither property transfer tax nor property acquisition tax was ever forgiven, never thought about it, and never forgiven. Who says so, lies! That note number one. [[20.00 hours]] Note two. Mr. Beznoska said it would make it difficult for the taxpayer to do something. I would like to point out that he will not have to do anything in this case. If he doesn't like that he should compare with 75 percent of the usual tax, he will do what he has to do under today's legal order: he will order an expert opinion, he will pay, compared to today's legal state, he will be able to put the costs of an expert opinion on the basis of the tax, i.e. it will be able to reduce its tax base, this new regulation already allows it, not today's situation, and nothing will complicate it. If he wants to proceed with the simpler method in my opinion, because today the financial authorities are already so charged with information about real estate prices that he will feel sorry for the money for an expert opinion, and he will proceed with the method that he will take the tax from the tax office, it will be easier. But he won't have to do that if he wants to follow the current practice of having an expert opinion, so he'll have it done, and he'll be able to reduce the basis of the tax statement, so from this point of view, the change is extremely positive. Note three. I do not understand and I will probably never understand why the Senate rejected the draft submitted by the Chamber of Deputies. It is one of the few tax changes where I was completely in line with my opinion - we have rarely agreed with Minister Fischer or with the Rusnokův government, but where we really had the same opinion, the view was that we need to change the current non-systemic and very risky state of property transfer tax, where the tax is paid by the seller who obtains the funds. Whoever acquires the property doesn't pay anything, but is legally a guarantor. It's rarely remembered. Whoever acquired the property guarantees the state that whoever sold the property will pay. Very often it happens - and the Ministry of Finance is unfortunately witnessing a number of heartbreaking examples - when the person who sold the property got the money, drank it, was executed to him, took it away at night, in whatever way they were stolen, so the realtor got into a situation after a year, two or three, that the tax office came and said, pay, you're a guarantor, that one didn't pay. And he didn't. She's often quite a large amount. And the Minister of Finance and the competent director of the financial office are in an impasse because he knows that the man is honest, that he has committed nothing, and the law does not allow him to forgive in any way except the payment schedule. The Contracting Parties have also often dealt with this among themselves through notarial and legal custody. However, unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance has recorded many cases where both legal and notary deposits have been embezzled. And there the acquirer was again a guarantor, and he was unlucky again, because he often got into a situation where the property was removed because he didn't have the liability to pay the tax. In our opinion, the only way to eliminate this systemic risk was to just flip it over. The real estate transfer tax, or the real estate acquisition, it's the same thing, it's included in the price anyway. If the seller pays it, or if the acquirer pays it, it doesn't matter. At the moment when it is paid by the acquirer who is aware that he has to pay it, otherwise he might also lose the property, it falls short of what we have been monitoring - the risk of mutual liability falls away. This proposal, which we submitted to the Senate and which the Senate rejected, was removed in addition to the other advantages that are preserved there, that the costs of the expert opinion can be deducted from the tax base, and that if you do not want to take the expert opinion in the case of housing or recreation properties. If you don't want to. Then you must proceed in a way that is criticized by Mr Beznoska. But why criticize it? You don't have to do that, you can continue to get an expert opinion. This is preserved there. For absolutely unknown reasons, the Senate simply did not want to accept the situation that the tax would be paid by the acquirer, even though I repeat again, it doesn't matter. And the advantage is that there's no risk of mutual liability. It's all over the place. There's just no guarantor. Where there is a guarantor, there is a systemic risk of fraudulent behavior. We removed the systemic risk of fraudulent behavior, which the senát didn't like. In my opinion, the government has resolved this in quite Solomonian, giving the parties a choice, whether they decide one way or the other. However, it must be added that where the seller pays, there will continue to be the guarantee. That didn't come out of the law. Finally, it may be necessary to add that there are only two countries in the European Union where the real estate transfer tax is paid - we, who made it up in 1990, and the Slovinec, who copied it from us in 1993. Otherwise, no one else has it that way - just so he doesn't have the risk of mutual liability. What the government has come up with now for the Senate's instigation, we're the only ones left. No one else is gonna have it like that. It's gonna be bad, but it's gonna be our way. I suggest you approve, though. It's got to do with the recodification. And I think the government has done its utmost with regard to the Senate's position. But the next time we amend the property acquisition tax again, let us see how other European countries have it and how it is most comfortable for the taxpayer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-013-019.u11	I thank Mr Kalousek. I see President Štěch. Let me ask you - in the debate or in the final word? [[With the final word.]] In that case, I will ask if there are still applications for the general debate. I don't see anybody, so I end up general, opening up detailed. I don't have an application for that either, so I'm closing it. And now there's room for the final word of the President of the Senate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-013-019.u12	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I know that what Minister Kalousek has proposed in the past has always been the right thing to do. Except it didn't really work out for us in that country, and we got to where we got to, that we're on the brink of almost everything about the economic area. But what the Senate has accepted and what the former minister doesn't understand, I don't think it's that complicated. First, the senát wanted and finally pushed for the practice to remain. As far as we know, there have been no problems with this practice so far. I mean, the Senate has mayors, mayors, people who are in touch with people every day in real life. They're people across the political spectrum. This view was virtually everyone from left to right, from right to left. Two. There is a possibility - and that is an improvement - of an agreement. There's a possibility of a deal. And if there is a danger, as former Minister and Member Kalousek said, that there will be a liability problem, that the property will still have to be guaranteed, then we think that this is a lower risk for the guarantee than that the person who acquires the property for the last money he has to pay for it will still have to pay the tax. So much easier for the state to pay the tax, the one who gets the money from the real estate. That's how the senators treated it, that's how the Senate discussed it. And it also took place from the senators, as I say, from the right spectrum of the then government coalition. There is no evil intention in this, there was no consensus that would like to be done to the Chamber of Deputies or to a government coalition. It was a practical approach for people who live in the real world. Let's not look at any bad intentions. He wasn't in it, and it's quite practical in my opinion, because the experience of people who sit in the Senate hasn't had any serious problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-013-019.u13	Thank you. That was the final word of the President of the Senate. I'll ask the Prime Minister if he wants to speak with the final word. Obviously, yes. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-013-019.u14	I'm sorry, I know it's late, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your comments. However, one inspired me, as Mr Kalousek said, that we would be the only ones who had something changed. I'd take his word for it. I would be happy if we were not the only ones in many other adjustments, which are very original, and I have to say that they relate mainly to property taxes, parts of the property we are talking about, or also to the very specific status of some economic activities - I mean the CFI, in which we are truly unique and very original. So I very much welcome the path to standardisation and European conception, and I will only be happy for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-013-019.u15	Thank you, too. That was the Prime Minister's final word. And now we have nothing left but to vote on this legal measure. So I'm gonna ring my co-workers in the lobby, give them a moment to get to the meeting room. Since it seems that all those who want to vote are already here, I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves, in accordance with Rule 33 (2) '. 5 Constitution of the Czech Republic legal measure of the Senate number 340/2013 Coll., on the tax on the acquisition of real estate." Initiating this vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 20. It's registered 186, and it's 172 against no one. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. I suppose my colleague Konečná doesn't sign up for the debate, so I'm erasing it. I will end item 19 and now with a great apology to the Minister of Health that he had to wait so long, but the Prime Minister puts it forward, the Minister of Health certainly wanted to be present for this debate. Opening point number
