ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-000-999.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take your seats in the hall. Before we begin the third meeting, I will ask the presidents of the various parliamentary clubs to gather, if possible, here at the top, to discuss further progress. I beg the president of all the congressional clubs in the hall and up here with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-000-999.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the meeting opened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I announce that after the meeting with the club presidents today will take place no later than 13:00, then there will be an hour's lunch break and then we will continue on the agenda of the third meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. You have a draft agenda for the meeting. Miroslav Kalousek, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek, was the first chairman of the TOP 09 club to announce the agenda of the meeting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-000-999.u3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on Wednesday afternoon, the Organizing Committee decided to convene an extraordinary meeting for today so that the first reading of the state budget could be discussed so that it could be discussed at that unprecedented pace, which does not allow a proper parliamentary debate for fourteen days. I do not want to repeat the heated debate that we had here during the discussion of the state budget schedule, I just want to reiterate that the way in which the first reading of the state budget is convened, as well as the timetable that we have already approved, simply does not allow a proper parliamentary debate and that, in our view, it is already beyond constitutionality, however much President Votava has argued with it, however he has an opinion from the legislative department. Of course, I can have a whole range of other opinions from other authoritarian institutions. I believe that it would be easy to demonstrate before the Constitutional Court that the proper scope for a parliamentary debate on such an important standard was not given and that this was a process only formal, not a process of substance. Just because I'm pointing it out and pointing it out doesn't mean that TOP 09 will do something like that. One of the great vices of the former opposition was the constant submission to the temptation that, at the moment they succumbed to an honest political duel of arguments and votes, they turned to the Constitutional Court with anything and constantly to try it again, after losing political debate and vote, at the Constitutional Court. By its own behaviour, the former opposition assigned to the Constitutional Court a factual meaning which, in our view, does not belong to it. She turned him into a third chamber of Parliament. TOP 09 does not want to repeat these vices of the former opposition. We believe that each constitutional institution is to do what is due to it, and we will not - I declare it to the future - try to make the Constitutional Court a third chamber of Parliament, because we consider it to be a long-term harmful and one of the biggest mistakes our colleagues have made of their opposition. Although you have approved the state budget schedule, you have approved it on the critical path of legal deadlines. This means that if any time limit is not complied with on the relevant date, the entire timetable will fall. I assure you that it is within our power and abilities, after we have been overvoted after an honest discussion, that it is within our power to do so in our opinion. It is in our power and ability to ensure that no vote is taken by midnight tonight. It is in our power and ability to submit every parliamentary workbook - these notebooks are eight - four - hour material and expert analysis. Perhaps we could convince Mr Birke that we have enough experts for such a debate, perhaps even learn something. We could vote on the state budget after such a factual and professional discussion sometime on Monday morning. Well, then we'd have to vote on the schedule again, because in the meantime, it would be worthless. That's our power and our powers, and we're not gonna do it. We will not do this because obstruction is a legitimate tool of the opposition, but it is to be treated as saffron and not as malice. Let this approach be seen as an effort to express decency in an environment where we learn a lot of new things, where we may learn that a promise, although publicly spoken, is not yet an agreement, because an agreement means mutual fulfillment, while a promise is something I promise, but that does not mean that I have made a deal and I have to keep it. Let this be our approach to political culture at the beginning of our work of this four-year period where we get to know and establish relationships. And those relationships of mutual respect, mutual respect and the possibilities here, not only to cooperate, but also to breathe, will be exactly the way we do ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-003-01-000-999.u4	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. He allowed me to go back to the point that needs to be done, because, of course, after the beginning of the meeting, we have to approve the programme, and given his comments, I still have a slightly simpler situation. Before we start approving the programme, I will announce that the apology from the second meeting also applies to the third meeting and no one else has reported the replacement cards to me, so that the replacement cards, as in the second meeting, will be held by the relevant colleagues in the third meeting. We will now proceed to the designation of two verifiers for the third meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I suggest we identify Mrs Marta Semelová and Mrs Kristýna Zelienková. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see another suggestion. I'm going to start a number one vote at this meeting, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 1 of the 152 Members present for 144, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have designated Ms Marta Semelová and Mrs Kristýna Zelienková as the verifiers of the third meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. [[12.20 hours]] Now, therefore, to establish the agenda for the third meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is a matter of course, I do not submit any proposals to discuss the draft programme, because the Organizing Committee agreed on them on Wednesday. I ask the Members to comment on the draft agenda where appropriate. If there is no proposal to amend the agenda, then we can vote in the vote on order number 2 that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the proposed agenda for the Chamber of Deputies meeting. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 2 from 161 Members present for 156, against no one. The agenda has been approved. We've dealt with the agenda of the meeting, and we have item number one, which is
