ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-008-007.u1	7. Proposal for the establishment of a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for monitoring the use of wiretapping and recording of telecommunications traffic, the use of monitoring of persons and goods and the cancellation of electronic communications traffic and the manner in which it is set up or elected According to Article 98 of Law No. 273/2008 Coll., on the Police of the Czech Republic, the Chamber of Deputies sets up a monitoring body to control the use of wiretapping and recording of telecommunications traffic, the use of tracking and repealing electronic communications, consisting of Members designated by the Chamber of Deputies. The number of members is not determined by law, so the number of members needs to be determined. Therefore, proposals should be made in a detailed debate. Pursuant to Section 47 of the Rules of Procedure Act, I propose that this supervisory body should have the status of a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies, in accordance with Section 115 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, I propose that this Commission be set up on the basis of the principle of proportional representation. The Chamber of Deputies should therefore set up a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies to check the use of wiretapping and recording of telecommunications traffic, the use of people and goods monitoring and the abolition of electronic communications operations, consisting of nine Members, and provide that they are established on a proportional basis. I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it. I see no one, i.e. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if anyone is reporting in a detailed debate. I also see no one, and I am ending this detailed debate. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled, i.e. nine members and the principle of proportional representation. I've started a 25-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 25 of the 188 present for 165, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that the motion for a resolution has been adopted. [[Noise in the hall.]] We have dealt with all the proposals for the Chamber of Deputies Commission and can proceed with item number
