ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-001-006.u1	6. Proposal for the establishment of a mandate and an immune committee On this point, you have received a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies, as prepared by the electoral commission on proposals from the parliamentary clubs. I will now ask the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, for an opening word on this proposal. At the same time, Mr President, I would ask you to introduce us to individual candidates, and I would also ask them to rise when reading their name. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-001-006.u2	Good Tuesday morning, ladies and gentlemen. [[There's a call from the O.R. Wednesday.]] It's already Wednesday, it's flying. Thank you. I hope it was my last mistake in this performance. Once again - good Wednesday morning, Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members and honourable Members. I would like to inform you that, at its second meeting on 26 November 2013, the Election Commission discussed the proposals of the MPs on the members of the Chamber of Deputies' mandate and immunity committee and also adopted its resolution number 7 on the basis of which the draft resolution of the Chamber of Deputies before you was prepared. It's distributed on your desks for each of you. Let me say that the mandate and immune committee is set up in the same way as any other committee of the Chamber of Deputies. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that the Chamber of Deputies stated by its resolution number 2 of 25 November 2013 that the mandate and immunity committee would be set up in the number of 15 members. Now I will ask my esteemed colleagues who have been nominated as members of the committee to stand up after reading their name. Members of the delegation and immunity committee were nominated by the following Members - I will present them in Radek order: Mr Marek Benda for ODS, Member Zlatuška Dolejš - KSČM, Member Matěj Fichtner - YES, Member Stanislav Grospič - KSČM, Member Daniel Herman - KDU-ČSL, Member Milan Chovanec - ČSSD, Member Jan Chvojka - ČSSD, Member Martin Lank - Úsvit movement, Member Herbert Pavera - TOP 09 and Mayor, Member Stanislav Polčák - TOP 09 and Mayor, Member Roman Procházka Vondráček YES 2011, Member Jeroným Tejc - ČSSD, Member Roman Váňa - ČSSD, Mr. I would now like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a resolution in which it takes note of the establishment of a mandate and an immune committee in the composition of the motion for a resolution which, as I said, has been distributed on benches in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-001-006.u3	Thank you, Mr President, for presenting the members of the mandate and immune committee or the proposal for them, and thank you for the introductory words as well. Before we vote on the motion for a resolution that you have introduced us to, I am opening up a debate on this point, on point 6, namely on the proposal for the establishment of a mandate and an immune committee. Would someone please report to the debate on this point? No one's checking in. So I'm done with the debate. I will ask whether the President - but since there was no debate, he does not really have anything to say. We will therefore be able to proceed to the vote. I think they're all in the Chamber, so we can start the vote. We will vote on a proposal which reads as follows: I am asking who agrees with the establishment of the mandate and immunity committee of the Chamber of Deputies according to the motion for a resolution tabled. Initiating serial number four vote. I ask who is in favour of this proposal. Against the proposal? Voting order number 4, present 196, for 194, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I can say that we have established a mandate and an immune committee. [[10.10 hours]] We need to move on to another necessary matter. In order for the mandate and immunity committee to meet at its first appointment, I have to delegate someone to this committee's management. I therefore entrust Mr Jiří Dolejš with the proceedings until the elected chairman of the committee has been confirmed by the Chamber of Deputies. Just for your information: Mr Jiří Dolejš was a member of this committee in the sixth parliamentary term and is now the oldest candidate of former Members, so it is therefore proposed that he manage this committee until the new President is elected and confirmed by the House. I would also like to point out that the Committee will elect its chairman at the setting-up meeting. I would also like to remind you that the mandate and immunity committee examines whether individual Members have been elected in a valid manner and presents its findings to the Chamber of Deputies. In this context, I would like to draw your attention to the difference between the choice of committee chair and the choice of Chamber of Deputies. In the event of the forthcoming election, i.e. the election of the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, it is this committee that provides for the organisation of the election. This means that the proposals of the candidates are not submitted to the Election Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, but directly to the constituent meeting of this committee. We will now have to allow time for this committee to meet so that proposals can be made so that it can do everything that it has to do at its constituent meeting. According to my information, it takes 90 minutes for everything to take place properly. It's 10 o'clock, 12 minutes, I'm calling in a break in 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-001-006.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the programme establishing a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Before we begin to address the proposal to confirm the chair of the mandate and immunity committee, which is point 7 of our agenda, let me announce an apology to one of our colleagues. For health reasons, Mr Josef Hájek from the ANO movement apologizes. Now we're getting, like I said, to a point.
