ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-010-009.u1	9. Announcement of time limits for the submission of proposals to Members set up by the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies and Parliament's permanent delegations to interinstitutional organisations I will ask the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to take the floor. I can see my colleague. He's coming. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-010-009.u2	Dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today my performance will be quite short and I will announce two deadlines, so please have your attention. The first deadline is related to how we voted to change the agenda of the meeting on Thursday, i.e. related to another attempt to elect the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore declare a deadline for the submission of proposals for candidates for the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Please deliver these written proposals to the Secretariat of the Election Commission by 19 o'clock today by the secretary of the Election Commission, Mrs Jitka Václavíková. It's here on House Street on the first floor, room number A209. [[15.40 hours]] I'll do it again. I call on the MPs to submit proposals to the Election Commission within 19 hours today so that the deadline is 24 hours before the date on which the election will be on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, which is the first item on Thursday morning. For the members of the electoral committee, I will remind you that we will discuss these proposals tomorrow at 14:00 on the electoral committee. Now, the second deadline, at the request of the heads of the MPs, has been postponed, so you have until tomorrow. I therefore declare a deadline for the submission of proposals to Members set up by the Commission of the Chamber of Deputies and Parliament's permanent delegations to inter-European organisations - and be aware that this deadline is tomorrow, 11 December by 11 o'clock. Once again, the deadline is tomorrow at 11:00 a.m. Once again, I ask you to send the nominations to the Secretariat of the Election Commission, room A209, secretary of Jitka Václavíková. And I would like to add to the third time - there has already been information on possible changes in the bodies of the Chamber of Deputies. We'll discuss them on Thursday, too. Also these proposals for changes in the institutions, possibly in the various committees and the like, please also submit to the Election Commission tomorrow at 11 o'clock. That's all I'm saying. Thank you and I remind you, the electoral committee is meeting tomorrow at 2:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-010-009.u3	I thank President Martin Kolovratník and ask if anyone would like to comment on these proposals, on the time limits. I don't see anyone. So thank you for the announcement of deadlines, the club presidents will certainly take care of it, and I will end this point. We will continue, and since, at the opening of the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, we have been firmly placed, starting with press number 14 at 16 o'clock, we cannot deal with those that have been included, i.e. the items of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior, and we can deal with prints number 10 and 12. I would only ask the Chamber of Deputies' Office to ensure the presence of the Minister of Health Holcát, who will be the petitioner. So first, let's open point number.
