ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-012-023.u1	23. Government bill amending Act No. 219/1999 Coll., on Armed Forces of the Czech Republic, as amended /German press 14/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Defence Vlastimil Picek. I ask him to take the floor. At the same time, I ask that my colleague Kádner approach. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-012-023.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present here at first reading the main changes brought about by the Amendment to Law 219 on the armed forces of the Czech Republic, which have been distributed to you as House press No. 14. This bill is the first of a number of defence laws which the Ministry of Defence has been preparing for a long time and which result from conceptual materials such as the White Paper on Defence, Defence and Strategy of the Czech Republic, the concept of mobilisation or the concept of active backup. The aim of these materials is to maintain and further develop the state's effective defence in today's budgetary conditions and to maintain the ability of our armed forces to carry out defence and security tasks that result both from the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and from our allied commitments. The need for a new regulation stems mainly from the fact that the Armed Forces Act, through the amendments it has passed, no longer meets the substantive needs of the armed forces from the point of view of their management, performance of tasks and security. The solution is the newly proposed legislation, which responds to changes in strategic documents dealing with military issues in the armed forces and in the legal order of the Czech Republic. One of the anticipated consequences of the draft law should be the adoption of a clear legal standard that will improve the position of the armed forces, eliminate the shortcomings and uncertainties in the interpretation of the legal provisions, and thus improve the conditions for the management and performance of the tasks of the armed forces. Important material changes include, in particular, the replacement of military rescue units by a new institute, so-called by assigning a department to carry out the tasks of civil defence in connection with the international obligations of the Czech Republic. For further - supplementing the Act on the provision in which the Chief of Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic is expressly authorized to command the army. Further - the new terms of operational deployment and task force are defined, which will better enable the Czech Army to deploy forces and means to fulfil international obligations, and the Armed Forces Act will also include a military oath. The amendment also partially regulates some existing institutes, such as extending restrictions on the organisation of political campaigns for soldiers by an explicit ban on the organisation of any political gatherings or pre-election events in military buildings and in the activities of armed forces outside them. The draft amendment was discussed by the Government on 6. 11. 2013 and approved by Resolution No. 834. It is fully in line with the constitutional order and legal order of the Czech Republic as well as with the international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I ask you to discuss this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-012-023.u3	I thank Minister Vlastimil Pick for putting forward the proposal and now I ask the President of the Defence Committee, Mr David Kádner, to propose to us the rapporteur for the first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-012-023.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the Committee of Defence on House Press No. 14 I propose to Mr Seďa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-012-023.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We'll decide that in the 31-order vote that I started. I ask who agrees that the rapporteur for the first reading be Mr Antonín Seďa. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 31 of 163 present for 120, against no one. Mr Antonín Seďa has become rapporteur for first reading and I also ask him to take the floor in his intelligence report. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-012-023.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Ministers, Dear Colleagues, as the Minister said, the main objective of the amendment to the Bill on Armed Forces is to replace the military rescue services with a new institute "allocation of the department to carry out the tasks of civil defence" and to establish that the Chief of Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic is in charge of the military. Furthermore, the proposal introduces new concepts related to developments over the last 13 years in the deployment of forces and means of armed forces to fulfil the international commitments of the Czech Republic, such as operational deployment, task force, and also some issues relating to military technology and its operation, respectively. technical inspections, in particular for vehicles returning from missions from abroad. By amendment of the law, the army will also officially participate in the air rescue service. The correct change is the return of the Minister of Defence's inspection to the law and the re-establishing of the military oath. Furthermore, there is a restriction on the political right to hold political meetings and campaigns in military buildings, respectively. in the activities of the armed forces outside military facilities. Restrictions on the rights laid down in Article 17, respectively. 20 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms is justified and proportionate and respects the current concept of limiting political rights in connection with the exercise of the obligation of defence. That's how brief the news report is. At the same time, I am reporting to the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-012-023.u7	I thank the rapporteur for his report and open a general debate in which I have no written application, but the rapporteur, who also has the right of priority, came forward, so I ask him to take the floor in the debate. I don't see anyone else. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-012-023.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say, in substance, that the proposed change in the position of Chief of Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic is a key issue for me, when it is proposed to be the commander of the army. This was never the case during the existence of the Czech state and its republican legal predecessors. It's just that the Chief of Staff isn't, he's not, he's not, he's not, he's not. And if the Chief of Staff should command the military, then he should be conceived as commander in the law. Although both roads are possible, I admit it, it is necessary to decide whether we will go the way of the Federal Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom or the United States, or the way of Turkey or Burma. For me personally, it is clear that the proposed wording of the law must be adapted to the existing wording of the law. [[16.10 hours]] The second problem is the removal of military rescue units from the military structure. We have discussed this in the long term not only with the current Minister, but above all with the Defence Committee. It should be noted that, after their removal from the structure of the army, their functions cannot be fully transferred to military units and military facilities. Our country is bound by the 1949 Geneva Conventions dealing with the protection of victims of international armed conflicts and which lay down the conditions and what is important - that members of the armed forces and military services use all the privileges and protection of international law in carrying out the humanities of civil protection. The issue of the use of military services for the performance of the humanities of civil protection is, in my view, solved incorrectly and the whole thing needs to be adjusted. Government regulations introduced by law are merely a patch of this future situation if the amendment passes. The change in the name of civil protection in civil defence is also problematic. Despite my particular reservations, I recommend the referral of the bill to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-012-023.u9	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa. Who's next for the general debate? I don't see anyone, I don't have written applications, I'm ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final word of the rapporteur or the appellant. Mr. Secretary? No, not interested. Thank you. We will consider proposals on the commandments of the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the motion to discuss the Defence Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will proceed to the vote, vote number 32, which I have begun. Who agrees with the motion being submitted to the Defence Committee? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 32, 173 in favour of 139, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Defence Committee and the time limit for the hearing remains in accordance with the law of 60 days. I thank the Minister, thank the rapporteur, and I conclude this point. Before I start another point, I'll read one more apology. From 16.30, Mr Jan Farský apologizes to the end of today's day for personal reasons. We will continue with the next item of the Minister of Defence, and that is
