ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u1	8. Proposal for a timetable for the discussion of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2014 and a proposal for medium-term expenditure frameworks for 2015 and 2016 in the Chamber of Deputies and its bodies (Department Document 83/ This proposal shall be made by the President of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava. I beg him to take the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, hello. I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Budget Committee of the 1st meeting of 4 December 2014 on the draft timetable for the discussion of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2014 and the medium-term expenditure frameworks for 2015 and 2016 in the Chamber of Deputies and its institutions. Following the introductory words of Mr Votava's committee chairman and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament First, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the timetable for the discussion of the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2014 and the medium-term expenditure frameworks for 2015 and 2016 as set out in Annex 1 to this resolution - I presume you all received this. Secondly, it empowers the rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of this resolution. That's what I did. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask you to sit down at the rapporteur's table and follow the general debate that I am opening up with this. I'm registering Mr Kalousek's application. After that, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, please forgive me for starting with a notoriety, and therefore by stating that the State Budget Act is the basic strategic document for executive performance in the following year, when at least in optional expenditures which are unfortunately smaller than those required by law, the Chamber of Deputies sets fundamental budgetary and hence political priorities for next year. It's not only extensive material, it's also sophisticated. And I, with all due respect for the intellectual potential of all of us who have been elected to this Chamber of Deputies, dare say that the 14-day timetable is insufficient time to study each of us directly, but it is now completely absurd to discuss properly. If we adopt this timetable - and we undoubtedly accept it because we are aware of the political positions of the various political factions - we say nothing but: we, the Chamber of Deputies, the sovereign over the State Budget Act, the sovereign over public spending, which is to determine to the government what it can and cannot spend in the following year, we, the Chamber of Deputies, will resign to this. We're not gonna do it. We will simply take some formal steps within the deadlines that are shortest by law, that is, in times on a critical path, but we will resign to a proper and responsible discussion of the state budget. I have noted the pressure on speed in a wide range of discussions on different points, but the intensity of the negotiation and resignation process, these are please two different terms. None of us imagines that he's gonna work so hard, he's gonna blow it off, and then we're gonna do it fast. It is not possible to discuss the state budget in a fortnight. It's possible to get rid of it. It may be said that this has been passed by the House authorities, but it is not possible to discuss this in full knowledge and instruction of each and every one of us who will vote on it. When you vote on this, you'll vote on it by signing a bianco check and not knowing what you're voting on. This is a report that you will issue to the Czech public by approving this schedule. I'm aware of the advanced data. I am aware that none of us wants a long budget provisional, but the attempt to close the budget by Christmas to justify averting the risk of budgetary commissions is a false argument. I think that, as we are sitting here, we all know that the budgetary make-up, which would be due to technological negotiation times and would take two to three weeks, absolutely does not mean any risk to the public budgets that they draw, absolutely does not pose any risk in terms of capital market confidence, where trust would be undermined by otherwise long and uncertain provision. But a two-to-three-week or even a four-week budgetary make-up does not pose any risk whatsoever to the functioning of the state, to the functioning of the regions, to the functioning of the municipalities, or to the trust of the capital markets. I think we all know that, and this argument won't hold up. There may be one argument: the budget is not ours, none of us like it, we do not yet know what we want to do about it. If we propose any change, then we'll be responsible for it. [[10.30 hours]] Now, let's sign a bianco check, and then we'll think about what we're gonna do about it. But that's a resignation for the House's work. By approving this budget, the House will resign from its task of being a sovereign over 1 bil. 200 billion. public expenditure which we will approve in this document. Therefore, there is no way that the MPs will support this timetable and they do not agree with us telling the public: We, the Chamber of Deputies, do not give a damn about our task, we will do it only formally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u5	Thank you. It is now Mrs Válková's factual point. You mít your two minutes, madam. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u6	Thank you. I thought I wouldn't perform, but somehow I had to, because my experienced, clever and in these areas certainly very knowledgeable things the previous speaker said a few untruths here, at least from my point of view. First of all, we didn't come here to discuss the budget as he might have imagined or as one of us imagined, months, because we don't have that time. And we were forced by the early elections that led us to the very parties that are now applying their critical reservations - or we were not counting on having such a short time limit to discuss the state budget. On the contrary, we think that the expression that we want to work is that we want to discuss the state budget with the utmost effort in the short term. And my second point is - I am going back to the legal measure that we had to take under the dictation of time without being able to read the thousands of pages at all, and that again is from the workshop of Mr Kalousek's previous speaker, when he forced us to superficially approve the law, without which, as we all agreed, there would have been a high probability on 1 January 2014 of chaos. So I think it would be a good idea to consider the wording when we talk about the state budget, which was definitely not one of the tasks that we were counting on in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u7	Thank you. I will ask President Kalousek to wait, because now we have a number of factual points. First, Mr Beznoska with a factual remark and then there is room for you. The rapporteur is also factual, and the President is also factual. Right? Then we'll sort it out afterwards. Now, two minutes, Mr Beznoska.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u8	Thank you. Mr President, dear government, my fellow Members, my previous speaker's remark raised me a little. If someone has come here not to expect to discuss properly such a crucial document as the State Budget Act, they simply have nothing to do here. The document you have in front of you, if you haven't even been able to record it, has 936 pages, plus thousands of pages per chapter. And it's very difficult just to load this from November 27th until the supposed approval before Christmas. There's just no way to discuss it. If it sounds - and it's probably going to be a new political culture - that we're going to work as a company, that means that the board of directors are going to present something to their employees, and they have the only chance - to nod their heads, so please don't bring this culture here. Definitely against. This schedule is not real at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u9	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u10	Sorry, just two little notes. The legal measures were not from the workshop of Minister of Finance Miroslav Kalousek, it was the cooperation of Fischerův's government, the Senate and I also voted for them with the gnashing of teeth. First of all. Two. Of course, if any disaster threatens - we may experience a state of legislative emergency here, then we simply have to weigh speed before the quality of discussion and sometimes it just happens to us. But before the situation, we are not colleagues and colleagues. We are not standing here before the fact that if we do not approve the budget by December 20th, there will be a problem. On the contrary, if we approve it on January 20th, there will be no problem and we will do nothing but create room for us to work. If we put it on for the next 14 days, we say to the public, "We're not gonna work it because we can't work it off." We just formalize it, sign a bianco check for any future government, we don't know what we're gonna do, we're gonna go to Christmas, we just don't want to work! We just want to approve!
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u11	Yes. Another factual point is that of Mr Hašek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll go to my foreman, Mr. Kalousek. You know, it's touching how much care TOP 09 and ODS are now taking care of the stability and preparation of the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, it was you in the role of government MPs and representatives of the previous government who put the entire state and businessmen here into total uncertainty. As I recall, by the middle of December, it was still unknown what the VAT rate would be in this state. And you're here today preaching whether or not we have time to discuss the budget? Please sweep before your own threshold! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u13	Thank you. And the final de facto is Mr Blažek. Please, you also have your two minutes, which I'll start to measure when you get to the pitch, which is now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u14	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to comment on the budget because I don't think I'm calculating, but one thing is clear, methodical. Houses, representative corps, if you will, were created in history to control the ruler, or if you want the government or whoever is in power, in the management of the budget. By not being able to physically read this material, basically no one, whether it is from the YES movement or from any other side, is automatically giving up this fundamental right today, even to the government that had the advantage and the happy life that it ruled without any House. In the YES movement, and I am not questioning it, there are certainly a lot of successful entrepreneurs who, no doubt, when deciding their billions, at least read it. At this point, we're in a situation where you may be thinking of the state as a company, but you're acting like it's a foreign company, not your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u15	That was the last point of fact. Now, shall we return to... real or proper? Wait, here's more priority rights, we're gonna have to sort it out somehow. The right of priority is exercised by the President of the ODS Club Stanjura, followed by the President of the Jurečka Club, then by Mr Votava and then by the only one who is on the board and who is Mr Mládek. Ambassador Stanjuro, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u16	Good morning. Mr President, colleagues, we have a pretty quick start to our negotiations. I, in addition to explaining why I think the motion for a resolution proposed is not well, I will also give a counter-proposal which I think we can support because it does not bring disaster and gives us Members a decent time to discuss the draft state budget. First of all, we're discussing a state budget that no one claims to have. It is presented by a government that never had confidence, which was lucky enough, as my previous speaker Pavel Blažek said, to operate without control, without presenting laws or facing intercessions. So I don't understand politically. I understand if the new government came up with a budget that wanted to discuss quickly in the House. This has political logic, we have often done this when we wanted to discuss our programme priority quickly, and I was one of those who often suggested shortening deadlines. There is no such person here, and how this government is responsible for this is evidence that, perhaps for the first time in the history of the Committee on Budgets, the Minister of Finance has not been present at first reading and the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic is not present today. I'm not questioning it, it's just to say who's putting it, how much weight it gives it, and whose budget it is. It's not true how I hear from the coalition that it's ruining their budget. Whoever votes for the budget will be his budget. The base material has 936 pages. Yesterday were the setting-up meetings of the various committees, I think each of the Members was given the so-called. Chapter notebooks, which, in my opinion, makes several thousand pages in its sum. I have experience from the Economic and Budget Committee, and that is really fascinating. We have a proposed timetable that complies with legal deadlines, no one is questioning that, but I think that if we left the standard thirty days between first and second reading and then the normal time between second and third reading, we are able to get to the approval of the budget at the third reading of the week from 21 January next year. [[10.40 hours]] None of the experts or analysts can claim that if the budget is approved on January 21st, not by political instability, but by being elections in October, it becomes an economic problem, whether outside or inside the state. Maybe some of you could read it. I've been trying, and so far I'm on page 280. It's true that the material was here since September 30th, but when I was elected and I first came to the House sometime at the end of October and I wanted the material at my disposal, I didn't get it. As long as the House isn't established and a promise isn't made, the press wasn't public. So we really couldn't read it in advance. I mean, in my post office, I got a bill from an ANO workshop in which you propose that by law be a minimum period between second and third reading of 10 days. I don't agree. I don't think it's practical. Although it is a matter of government, it will hurry very often and the opposition will not very often, but, as I said yesterday, just by not sitting in the government, but in the opposition bench, I will not change my mind, because now it seems more appropriate for the opposition. But if you're serious about the bill, and the state budget is the country's key economic law, and at the same time, you want to vote on the reduction to the smallest time limit - 48 hours - I look forward to the debate when you're defending at least 10 days, which is 240 hours, and not 48. And then it's just formal. I do not know when we received the motion for a resolution, Mr Vice-President. I see the management meeting has changed in the meantime. Perhaps then the information could be heard - I am a member of the Committee on Budgets, I am not surprised by the resolution, but I do not know if my colleagues received the resolution in time. Therefore, to be sure, I will read the amendment that I am making on behalf of our club, then refer to it in a detailed debate. In the resolution where you have a timetable - individual points, I propose points 1 to 6, that is to say including first reading, keep it the same. That means the first reading would take place today. Then I propose in paragraph 7, when the committees will discuss the chapters they have ordered us to do this by Wednesday, January 9. With the fact that the Committee on Budgets will discuss this material with the participation of the Committee's rapporteurs - that is paragraph 8 of the proposed resolution - by 13 January. The Committee on Budgets shall then submit its resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies by 13 January. Item 10 - The Chamber of Deputies will discuss the draft budget at second reading on - week from 14 January. After the end of the debate - this remains the same - amendments are being made to Members. And at third reading, that is, in the week from 21 January, we could discuss and vote on the draft budget. It is a minimum delay, from our point of view, a very short period of budgetary provisional, which will give us all, regardless of political affiliation, a dignified time to study it and, if necessary, make amendments within chapters or any movements between chapters. I say we understand that the first reading, which concerns the basic parameters of the budget, will take place today. We will do nothing to prevent this from happening except to share our views on it. I do not know if it is necessary - I have not been able to find a basic resolution, so I have not been able to produce an electronically amended proposal for it. That's probably the House Office's thing. I think the rapporteur has noted that. If not, I will put the individual data at his disposal so that this can be put to the vote after the end of the debate. Thank you and I believe that you will support this, and less than 30 days of budget provisionals will not really put us at risk and we will have a chance to really study it well and prepare quality amendments if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u17	I thank the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjur. I would ask him to at least make comments to the rapporteur, so that we know whether we will vote as one proposal or... [[A note from the diaper.]] One suggestion, well, thank you. That makes it easier. As far as his question is concerned, I apologise for saying it this way from the empire, the whole proposal was put into the electronic data distribution system in the Chamber of Deputies on Wednesday evening following the resolution of the Committee on Budgets. The words will be taken by Mr Jurečka and prepared by Mr Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u18	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I think we're in a situation that we haven't wished for. All of us newly elected here had the idea that the atmosphere in this Chamber of Deputies would be significantly different than it was in previous years. Turns out things aren't going so well. We are in a situation where we had to approve the Senate's legal measures last week without any of us saying that we are in principle in agreement with these legal measures and that they are close to us. But we were just in that situation, and we had to do it. We're in a situation where we have a draft state budget ahead of us, and I don't know if there's anyone in this Chamber who can say it's his budget, that he's close to him. I'm not sure the Minister of Finance can say that at all. But we are in a situation where most of us did not cause the fall of Petr Nečas' government, most of us disagreed and did not give confidence to the government of Jiří Rusnok. But we are in a situation here that if we wanted to discuss this budget properly, and I, although I am a rookie, if I remember correctly, have discussed the draft budget for two to three months in the Chamber of Deputies in the past, and we simply do not have this comfort now. If we want it, we will have March and there will be a budget make-up in this Republic. I think that the way is to approve this draft state budget as it is ready, and we all know that we will be going back over the course of the year to the changes in this budget, given what new government will be here. I would argue that, in this situation, which is exceptional, we should do our utmost to prove, we who are in the various committees, to study the material well within the deadlines that are proposed, and then to go back to that during the year. It's the only real way at this point, and I think most of us know that there is no other way at this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u19	I thank Mr Jurečka. With a point of fact, Mr Stanjura. Then, with a factual remark, Mr Zaorálek, then with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u20	For my colleague, by your means, when we talk about the terms, so normal, standard procedure is that the government will deliver a draft state budget bill by 30 September, and very often the state budget law was discussed in the third reading between 15 and 20 December. Which is two and a half months from the moment the House Press was delivered to us. It was delivered to us on November 27th. We made a proposal to vote on it in the second and third round of January 30th. That's after two months. It's a perfectly standard time. Don't talk about March. It's always counted from the beginning when the press comes to the House, and that was November 27th. And after two months, it'll be January 27th, and if you vote for our schedule, we'll fit into those two months. I don't know how you came up with March, that would be a very unusual time to discuss the budget, because it would take four months. That never happened. So I'd like us to be precise in these terms, too. And please don't use a political alibi. Whoever approves this budget is his budget. That's just the way it is!
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u21	That was Mr Stanjura. Now, with the factual remark of my colleague Zaorálek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u22	Thank you. Good morning to you. Colleagues, I just want some basic facts, because you can always see that memory doesn't work. There are representatives of the former government coalition of political parties who have brought this country into a political crisis. After the economic crisis, the crisis also came politically. Very serious. As the prime minister's position collapsed, trust in the state's institutions even collapsed. And not only in this country, but abroad. I will not quote the headlines and articles about the Czech Republic that were written in connection with the political crisis in this country. This means, when we talk about the budget today, we are proceeding according to a law that was adopted in 2009 just in case of early elections, for such an extraordinary situation. We don't have much left - and I don't have much time left, so let me just say this: it seems to me that the logic of why we want to manage the budget by the end of the year is simply that we want to give not only municipalities and people in this country but also abroad basic information: After the political crisis, this country is able to approve its budget in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u23	I thank Mr Zaorálek for his time. Mr. Chairman of the KSČM Club Pavel kovařík. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u24	Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, have a nice, good day. I'm following up on the emotional effort and care that everything needs to be made available in good time and to discuss it properly. I agree with that, this is indeed a procedure that should be properly applied. But I just remind you that those who are screaming the most here right now that everything should be available for the right and long enough to read it, to study it, or to have it assessed by consultants, experts etc., so here at a time recently past, when the various backpacks, packages, austerity measures were discussed, and I don't know what else, they wore from one day to the day the many hundred-page amendments, which were being voted out by the then government coalition's voting machinery, without even having a chance to overlook it, fly over. [[10.50 hours]] Simply and simply, when two do the same, it's probably not the same. I am just pointing out that, in this context, there is a much greater threat to the KSČM club to the possibility of budgetary make-up and the possibility of damage that budgetary make-up would do to municipalities, cities, regions, European funds, or so-called. European funds, rather than the fact that the budget, which, by the way, saw the light of day in the former government coalition, was relatively insignificantly executed by the current government. Well, yeah, let's get to it, let's do it now, and then it's possible to talk about a more fundamental change. And there the discussion must be detailed and sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u25	Thank you to Chairman Pavel Kováčik for keeping time. And now, with priority rights, Mr Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u26	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would perhaps react briefly to some of the things that have been said here. Well, of course we are, and we are discussing this budget in an extraordinary situation. But it must be said - and this has been said - who caused the situation. And I think that if the representatives of the ODS and the representatives of the TOP 09 are speaking now, Mr Kalousek, President Stanjura, it is hypocritical. Who did this? It was their government, the reign of Nečasův. And that's where Mr. Kalousek sat. And if Mr Kalousek today says that he did not have enough time to get to know the budget, it is primarily your budget, Mr Kalousek! He was born for you! Rusnokův's government somehow modified it -
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u27	Mr rapporteur, please address other colleagues only through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u28	Yes, I'm sorry. Rusnokův's government didn't have enough time to intervene in any radical and fundamental way. And unfortunately, of course, this budget will have to be dealt with by the government that will start. He'll have to. But, of course, we already have ambition, for a number of reasons, even so that the public can see that the House is working, is able to agree, and above all, we do not want a budgetary commission because it is probably not good for the Czech Republic, working in a budgetary commission - that is why we want it to be approved, even in such an emergency situation. The time limits in the timetable fully respect the law, the Act on Rules of Procedure. You can't deny that. President Kalousek here today may not have mentioned what he mentioned on the Committee on Budgets - that the hearing is unconstitutional. Then I heard a statement saying it was on the edge of the Constitution, so I don't know. It's not even true. The convening of an emergency meeting for Friday is perfectly in accordance with the law. The Organizing Committee has proposed to the President of the Chamber of Deputies to hold this meeting on Friday with the item of the first reading of the state budget. Most of the organizing committee, I have the impression that it was 9:3, it also approved this. And that is an expression of will, and I think that the will of the entire House, because, of course, the representatives who are on the Organizing Committee represent the will of the entire House. So there can be no doubt that it's not in accordance with the law. Not to mention, I also have the opinion of the legislative department, which fully confirms this. I think that the reasons why colleagues are here are simply a substitute problem. They're doing a little bit of alibi, so it's a little bit of a conscience, too, as it really is. Ambition to approve the budget here is, it is not against legal deadlines. I think it is quite all right, and I think the public will also see that the budget needs to be approved and there is no budgetary make-up. And one more comment. Mr Kalousek proposed a return to work on the Committee on Budgets. Okay, you might have a 20-day period for that. But it certainly wouldn't be a budget commission in the order of one or two three weeks, it would be far, far longer. And I am so worried that the budget could not be redesigned fundamentally and radically in such a short period of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u29	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr Martin Novotný and Mr Pavel Blažek are on the verdict before the duly registered colleague Mládek and Mrs Jourová. I ask Mr Martin Novotný to take the floor on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask, through the President, all my colleagues, if possible, not to speak in this House, unless they actually represent this group, on behalf of the representatives of the ammunition, i.e. mayors and mayors in the Czech Republic. As mayor of the city of Hundreds of thousands, I would like to say authoritarianly that if the state budget is approved on 20 January, it will have no fatal effect on this city or on any other cities, municipalities and regions. We are used to preparing our budgets in substance and with a sense of detail. On the contrary, we are interested in the content and structure of the budget, i.e. Specificity. If we were talking about some March of April, it would be a different debate. But on January 20th, there's no way we're gonna be threatened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u31	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u32	Thank you for the floor. I have to respond to some of the untruths that have been said here. I absolutely don't deny anyone the right to think what they want about the previous government. That is the right of every citizen, not just of Members. However, it is not true that setting the deadline for discussing the budget today is the fault of the previous government. The election depended on two facts - the dissolution of the House and when the President set the date for the election. The fact that the House only met when it met matters to Mr. President, not to the previous government. That means, you can really add time to those you can add it to, but it's not the previous government's fault.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u33	Thank you for the factual remark and respect for time. Mr Jan Mládek is now duly enrolled and will be prepared by Mrs Věra Jourová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few more words about the state budget schedule, even if I had my speech prepared for the first reading. And I would like to say that I will be here not only as a Member, but also as a person who has been meeting credit rating agencies and representatives of financial institutions for at least 15 years in different positions. I must say, there is a touching care of representatives of the former government coalition for parliamentary procedures. It's like they're erasing the unpleasant memories of what's brought us into this situation. And I'm going to leave Prime Minister Nečas' telenovela aside, and I'm going to talk about factual matters. They've brought this economy to an economic downturn. They brought this economy to high unemployment, which they optically reduced only by changing the definition of unemployed and driving a small part of the unemployed out of registration. These are the ones who brought this country to the threshold of breach of social cohesion and cohesion. The elector is simply angry and expressed it in his vote. But they cannot be denied that they have achieved success in at least one thing, and that is in the good rating of this country and in cheap financing of the Czech state, virtually. public debt. It doesn't matter what they did. And the actions I see here are questioning the only positive that they have left for the government to come. Because here, messing around in a time of deep political crisis, in a time of economic crisis, with whether or not we have a provisional for weeks or months is completely irresponsible. [[11.00 hours]] Because I'm talking to those credit rating agencies, of course, if we were in a normal situation, if the economy were to grow, if there were a proper election, if there wasn't a crisis, I can imagine that we were able to explain to them that a month or two was not a major problem. But we're not in a comfortable situation like this. We are still, after the deep political and economic crisis here, the economy is falling again, growth is uncertain. So we need to send a signal inside and outside that a responsible government coalition is being prepared here, which gives some kind of macro-economic framework and which then the things that are being said that there are, of course, a lot of details, of course, that the government needs to change its priorities, because this budget - and that must also be said - is Mr Miroslav Kalousek's budget and Jan Fischer's budget. The budget is being prepared for a long time, and when Jan Fischer came to the Ministry of Finance, of course he could make some changes, he also made them, but in principle they were changes that were on the budget prepared by the previous minister. There was an increase in the revenue of the budget - both by increasing the estimate of gross domestic product growth. When it was done, I had doubts as to whether it was a realistic estimate. It must be said that the CNB's devalue measure has devalued the Czech currency against the euro, effectively leading to no need to worry about this percentage of growth, because it will be achieved. And if it's no longer real, it's definitely nominal. I will now leave aside the overall impact of the CNB's measures. Of course, there was added some ambition to collect taxes better, to collect social security better, which, of course, increased revenue a little bit. And of course, there was also a higher yield from the frequency of the CTÚ to the fourth operator. On the other hand, some past mistakes have been corrected. National employees are rising by two percent and in particular the payment for state insured persons has been increased. Which leads me to another point, and that's not for this budget, it's for the future. One of those things, the negative legacy we got from the past here, was that excessive interest was devoted to the state budget and not to public budgets as a whole. Because Europe and credit rating agencies do not rate us by state budget, but by public budgets as a whole. And this led to the state budget being addressed at the expense of some other parts of public budgets, particularly at the expense of health insurance and, of course, also at the expense of some transfers to the region, because the regions are very dependent on what they get from the central budget. In the future, not only the state budget would need to be presented, but, if possible, some credible idea of public budgets as a whole, otherwise we will not be able to get out of these problems. I would like to end my speech by calling for us to discuss this budget within a short period of time, so that we may try a few amendments to that budget, which is indeed Mr Kalousek and Mr Fischer's budget. This can be done, for example, by putting part of the expenditure into the government's budgetary reserve, and then the new government will be able to change the allocation of money according to its priorities after getting to know the situation. But what is very important and it needs to go today, that the total macroeconomic figures are agreed by at least a new emerging coalition. And, of course, it will also signal that there is some emerging government coalition that will take government responsibility, and the provisional and the crisis will end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u35	Thank you, Mr Mládek. I was about to lead you to the point, because, of course, we're not discussing the state budget yet, but the timetable for its discussion, so I'm pointing out to other colleagues. You're lucky you got back to that in the penultimate paragraph of your performance. Mrs Věra Jourová has the floor and Mr Jan Bartošek will prepare himself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I would like a factual point, because I will be brief. I don't think we're in a standard situation. With such a high date to discuss the state budget, it is a non-standard date which, of course, leads us to a certain position. We've been blamed here for not working and resigning, and I say our passwords are responsibility and stability. I think that we need to give a clear signal to the public and, at the same time, to the European Commission, which I will talk about in a moment, that we are ready to lead this country into budgetary stability. Even at the cost of approving a budget that is not ours, which we have not built and which we do not really see inside. It is quite clear that we as new Members and new representatives and some future government that comes out of negotiations will largely have a disadvantage of informational asymmetry. After all, we don't see into executives, we don't see into individual chapters, and we don't know in principle how much funding is required by contracts that may have been prepared by the last government as land mines. And I don't mean the Rusnokův government. We have information that this commitment is a large sum of finance and that we may be facing a huge problem of limiting possibilities with the budget to do something soon. And I say again, it's not a resignation. We are prepared, if we accept government responsibility, to deal with these things. But it'll take time. Not until mid-January. I believe that by mid-January, we would not have moved further into uncovering what is in the bowels of individual executive chapters. First of all, I wanted to talk about being once again faced with a choice between two evils. If we want to, yes, look, try to look into the depths of the budget as proposed, so we will need time, and thus we are necessarily getting into the budget provisional. I personally consider, like my fellow Members, the budgetary commission as a great evil and a very bad sign not only for the Czech public but also for the already mentioned European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about European funds in which we work closely with European structures and in which we do not do very well. And we have not succeeded in the work of the government that has managed the system of European funds here for several years, and I think that the only certainty that we have so far given to the European Commission in the matter of funds has been that we have been able to co-finance European funds as a Member State. If there's going to be a budget make-up - and it's a question of how long, if a month, two months, three months, that would probably be a big enough and crucial mistake, because, of course, I'm not going to be divorcing it, it's going to be a construction season, we're going to need to be sure about the investment money. But if there is a budgetary make-up, then we, as a Member State, take to the European Commission the last certainty that we have brought so far - that we are financing the European funds in an orderly manner. So far, in all other aspects of European funding, we have brought only confusing signals and a very poor report on the Czech Republic as a state that cannot handle this agenda. Mr Kalousek spoke of resignation, and I ask why the Ministry of Finance has resigned from auditing European funds and has caused immeasurable damage, which is calculated only in one single refund, in a sanction applied against the North-West ROP of 2,9 billion. Until Mr Fischer and the new government had to address this problem, because we simply had to return this amount to the Brussels Treasury. And it was the fault of the Ministry of Finance, which resigned from audit for regional operational programmes and did not generally ensure fair and careful control of European funds, and this is an absolutely clear and enumerable result of this resignation of the Czech government. [[11.10 hours]] I could keep going. The drawdown figures for European funds from 2007 to 2013 are trivial. We are today not even half of the drawdown, we do not have absolute confidence that the projects we are now financing from the state budget will be refunded from the European Commission in the future. So, dear friends, we can end up not at zero, which means that we just don't come for the money and we don't get it, but on the contrary, we're still going to finance the things that we should have financed from Europe. I could keep going. I claim that the position of the Czech Republic, especially the former government, was a resignation and was a managerial failure. That is why I would very much like to make it very clear to the public and the European Commission today that we will be the stabilizing element, that we will ensure the elementary thing that we have to ensure, and that this is co-financing, and that we will not bring further uncertainty and confusion into the ranks of those who judge us very strictly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Věra Jourová. I'll ask my colleague Bartošek for a moment. I'll read the apology first. At 11 o'clock, Minister Holcát apologizes from today's meeting. Mr František Laudát is signed up with a point of fact. Mr Bartošek, duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that from among the emerging government coalitions, when you fear as Professor Válková of the Crisis, you are bringing about the crisis and uncertainty at this point in your behavior. Let me just remind you what the election winner did - social democracy. She practically organized an internal killer on the day of the announcement, which I don't think is over. I'd assume it's resting time before the second round. For the next one. With the responsibility given to you by the voters, you treat the President of another party at the time of the coalition's negotiations for training. We want you to quickly assemble a government and take responsibility on that material level. And we don't want anything else here. You told people what kind of experts you had, what kind of experts you'd attract, and you should have prepared. It's too late for the minister to sit in a chair and start researching his chapters, his budget. You've convinced the public that you're professionals, so you should be qualified to intervene. So far we're hearing more of a "we don't know, we have to break it down, we're gonna make sure." It's too late when the minister goes to sit in some chair and it starts to learn - his problem. We're not talking about six months, we're talking about at least a year, if not two. Some people can't do it differently, especially if they can't count from November 27th, two months and they're in March. We've been through a lot here, we've seen a minister who's also counted to 13 months a year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u39	That was František Laudát on a point of fact. Mr Jan Bartošek, duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u40	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, my contribution will not be so much about who is responsible for what, who has neglected or hastened, will be concerned with the timetable for approving the state budget. The point is that the timetable as it will be set means either that the budget will be approved by the end of this year and, where appropriate, if the timetable is different, we will swing into the budget provisional. And here I'd like to get an answer from someone who's competent. I'm preparing to interpel the Treasury Secretary this afternoon, so that's what I'm saying in this pre-round. I wonder whether the Treasury's system and its flexibility are in a position to be prepared by the Ministry of Finance, whether the Treasury's system can work in a budget makeshift system, and whether this system is subsequently compatible to be able to fluently shift from budget makeshift into an approved budget. The information I have is roughly such that the Treasury system does not know how to work in a budget makeshift, cannot involve claims from past years, nor can it engage outside budget resources, which I personally see as a big problem, and it should have a major impact on how we will behave towards the timetable in which we will adopt the state budget. I wonder if the current state of the Treasury project is in such a state that it can launch a fiscal year under the budgetary make-up regime and then it can pass smoothly into the approved budget system. It would be fair and I think right, regardless of political jurisdiction, that we should be informed about this as the Chamber of Deputies, and we have directed our actions accordingly, because it is important that we avoid any confusion and collapses within the Czech Republic. So I'm hoping to get a proper statement and an answer on this, because whoever's running the Treasury, it could be a pretty good trap that's being set up for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u41	I thank Mr Bartošek. I will just point out that there are no interpellations on Friday, so, of course, we can ask ourselves the questions in the debate. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek has the floor with priority rights. [[He prefers Mr Bartošek.]] All right, then a colleague of Bartošek's with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador. I'm tolerating myself today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u42	In case there are no interpelations, I will be happy to get an answer to that question as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u43	Yes, of course. My colleague Miroslav Kalousek with priority rights, but so far the last one entered in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u44	Thank you. Sorry, just three sentences before I proceed to the schedule. I just have to answer what happened here that the reason for the European Commission's fines from the ROP was the performance of the audit. That's just not true. It's conclusive. I don't want to elaborate, it's not the point we're discussing, but there's just been some crystallistic untruth. The reason wasn't an audit. I volunteered to tell Mr Jurečka in my apology speech that his reasoning was wrong. That it is simply impossible to think that if we approve the government on this accelerated schedule, that it can spend 1 beat in the next year. 211 billion, that we can then go back to that over the course of the year and we can sort it out somehow. We can't. The State Budget Act is a de iure law, it is not a de facto law. De facto, it is an executive standard that all democratic Houses have promoted to law. It is a textbook ingence of legislation into executives, and therefore the State Budget Act is the only act approved by the Chamber of Deputies, because the government is only confessing to the Chamber of Deputies, not to Parliament as a whole. It's nothing but an executive standard in character. And the House says: "We, because the government is coming out of us and we are a sovereign, we want to decide this executive standard at the level of the House, we do not want to leave it up to you, the government. We will determine what you may and must not spend. That's our job." However, it is also because it is an executive standard, so it is adapted to another regime of negotiation and to another regime of amendments and possible amendments. Once we say, "You may, government, spend 1 beat. 211 billion."so we can never go back to this within the course of the year as the House. No more initiative, no more resolution, we can say, "We've changed our minds and you can't spend so much, government." The only person who will be able to submit an amendment to the state budget law is the government itself. The draft of the amendment is something that is not possible. Only the government can do it. Of course, the government will return to this in the context of its priorities, and it is quite possible that priorities where it can, in optional spending, regroup and propose to strengthen some expenditures, some of them may be humiliated. I even hear he's gonna try to save some money, and by doing so, he's gonna park part of the operating expenses somewhere, whether in the government's budget reserve or on another item. But that doesn't mean he can't spend it. As soon as they're tied, they'll be untied. How are we supposed to believe that any government, we don't know what it is yet, comes up with a novel and says, "We suggest we don't spend 1 beat. 211 billion, we're suggesting we spend 10 billion. less"? I don't believe it. The government will change its internal structure, but it will never come up with less spending. If we allow the government to spend 1 beat. 211 billion, that's how they spend it! [[11.20 hours]] I understand in this approach of KSČM and ČSSD, because I feel that their ambition is to correct this money and spend it, that it is their ambition to spend 24 billion more than the limits were approved in June, before Rusnokův's government increased revenue and expenditure. But I hear from another part of the emerging coalition that the budget doesn't seem too economical, that they'd like to save something there. But you can do that now in the hearing, you can't do that in a year. Unless the government comes up with it and it doesn't come up with it! Forget it! So you're giving up this decision, as you've decided, you're giving up telling the government not to spend so much. Then it's up to her. And anything else you say is just a substitute problem, hypocrisy and falsehood. I'm sorry, it's really true! A brief comment on what my dear colleague Mr. Mládek said. I am also talking, and since we are the same age and we are doing about the same time around public budgets, I think for as long as he has been talking to people from credit rating agencies every year. And let me just say, we're not talking about a two- or three-month budget make-up, we're talking about a 20-day budget make-up. We would approve the budget by the end of January. And I dare say that from credit rating agencies to the information that, in terms of technological deadlines, the budget will be approved in the second half of January, none of the credit rating agencies will move a muscle. What the credit rating agencies will certainly pay attention to will be the fact that the trend of several years - and I thank you that Mr Mládek has acknowledged - has earned us extraordinary confidence and credit in the capital markets, the trend of a constant deficit reduction. You are prepared to approve the budget that will change this trend, and you are prepared to approve the budget and allow the government to spend more than would match this trend. This means he will change and there will be a higher public budget deficit, not just a state - a higher public budget deficit! Mr Mládek was wrong that the government was devoted only to the state budget and not to the general deficit of public budgets. The previous government has reduced public budget deficits from year to year. It took it to 5.8, the following year it reduced to 4.6 and it was safely below 3% for the third year. You are prepared to change this trend and increase the trend of public budgets, and that is something that credit rating agencies will certainly pay attention to infinitely more than the 20-day budgetary provisional due to technological deadlines. There's no doubt about that, please. And it's not, Mr. Ambassador. Mr President, it is not Kalouskův and Fischerův's budget. Kalousek proposed to the government, and the government approved it, a budget for expenditure of 24 billion, which is quite significant in terms of the amount of optional expenditure, a budget of 24 billion more economical, a budget for income significantly more realistic than the government then approved and presented here. And I would even dare to say to Minister Fischer's defense that it is not so much Fischerův's budget, he is more like Pecinův's budget, because Fischer brought something much more sensible into the government, and under pressure from his devoured colleagues at the SPOZ, he was forced to accept much larger and senseless spending than he proposed to the government. I'm sure he's responsible for accepting it, but he brought something far more sensible. It is Pecinův's budget, and it is very irresponsible to discuss and approve it within 14 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I had the ambition to end the debate, but in the factual notes it is written: Mrs Jourová, Mr Mládek, Mr Opálka, Mr Brabec, Mr Nykl, Mr Fischer with priority rights. But since the factual points take precedence, Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Fischer will wait a little longer and we will first exhaust the factual remarks. Mrs Jourová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u46	I am sorry, I am still going to stay away from the issue of European funds, because of course I know that this is a budget and a negotiation process. Yes, I would like to confirm that Mr Kalousek was right when he said that the audit was not the only reason for the return to the Commission in 2,9 billion, but I would like to add that the audit was one of the main reasons and serious reasons for the fact that we had the funds frozen for six months, which has slowed us down very much. So the fact that the audit didn't work the way it was supposed to, the money stopped, and we're still having problems with that. Thank you. And I won't bother with it anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u47	Thank you. Mr Jan Mládek, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have an understanding of any criticism of any ideological or political positions, but I quite like it when at least the criticism is consistent. At one point, when we're told that the state budget is actually predestined, it has predetermined expenditures because it's mandatorial spending, quasi-mandatory spending, and that the government isn't really able to do much of that, and we're told that if we approve the budget, there's not much we can do. Of course, most of the state budget spending is actually predestined and we are talking about a few percent that the government or parliament can play with. That's just the way it is. And of course, I didn't understand the point that the government would spend all the money and that it had no will to save and that it was completely hopeless. After all, the government and, in principle, the emerging coalition will be one and the same, and if there is a will for the deficit to be slightly smaller, nothing has to prevent the exhaustion of the government's budgetary reserve, which should be greater than anticipated so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u49	Thank you for keeping time. So now, Mr Miroslav Opálka, Mr Richard Brabec will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, allow me to make a line, for it has been suggested here that KSČM Members tend to spend money in the budget, so I would like to stress that the previous governments have taken over the state without being indebted. They sold property here for 3,000 billion crowns. We're approaching 2,000 billion state debt. In less than 25 years, a quarter of a century, we spent nearly 5,000 billion grossly. That's what I call splintering! The result of today's budgeting is based on a liberal theory. The budget revenue has been reduced by not enough to cover expenditure. And then we're in that trap where we're trying to figure out some 20 percent of what we're gonna do about it, and no one's such an artist to cover all the needs. We're all in favour of the economy moving on. We need impulses to do that. State impulses and no money. We are in favour of returning to progressive taxation, which is normal throughout Europe, only the Czech Republic is a conservative and liberal policy laboratory, as can be done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u51	I thank Mr Opálek for his time. Mr Richard Brabec will take the floor and Mr Igor Nykl will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u52	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I was always looking forward to Mr. Kalousek's performance when I watched them on TV, because it's always a verbal ecvibristic, bordering on a circus performance. I think he's done it a lot today. Here he comes. Thank you for coming to hear my stand. I would just like, Mr President, to tell Mr Kalousek that we are really coming from another world. From a world where it is perfectly normal that the company will approve its budget and, oddly enough, it saves even during the year. I know you can't imagine it, Mr. Ambassador, but that's true, there are companies that approve the budget and then save money. And please, a comment on what we're actually risking today. I think it is far less risk to approve, albeit within a limited period of discussion and debate over this budget than you approve the budget after two months of debate and then let it be stolen at various IZIPs and with Cards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u53	I thank Mr Brabco. The words will be taken by Mr Igor Nykl. Also a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I listen to the emotional efforts of the ODS and TOP 09 to amend the budget, I do not want to believe my own eyes, hearing. It seems to me that suddenly there are a bunch of experts around them who will hit beautifully in a few days, maybe weeks, and change everything to a beautiful one. They didn't have those crowds of experts before? Why is this country now when we see it in moral and economic mud? They suddenly surfaced around them? I'm afraid their budgetary intervention will not lead to worse. I can't believe these people are suddenly around them and not anywhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u55	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u56	Two small notes on my previous speakers. What guarantees the rights and freedoms of each of us is constitutional order. Within the constitutional order, a proper parliamentary debate. A resignation to a parliamentary debate, one with many experts, but a resignation to a full parliamentary debate is a resignation to a part of this constitutional order. That's one claim I dare say. The second is that I quite like to trust my colleague that he may have good will and that he thinks that he will save something during the year and that he will not spend everything that Parliament allows him to do. I'm willing to bet him any object or amount that it won't happen. The only way is not to let that government do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u57	This was the last one entered in the general debate. If no one is reporting, then now Minister of Finance Jan Fischer. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u58	Mr President, Members, gentlemen, Members, ladies and gentlemen, I will not hold up for long. I have received a brief question from Mr Bartošek and it is good to answer it very briefly. Treasury management project in terms of budgetary make-up, respectively. his commitment to the budgetary commission was prepared for this task, but I say openly, he has not been tested. He hasn't been tested. That's one thing. Which means I'm not threatening anything. That's it. That's technical information. In the speech of the Member, there was still talk about how the treasury administration could deal with claims and how it could deal with possible other sources outside the budget, as well as just technical communications. Neither entitlements nor non-budgetary resources shall be included in the provisional budget. They can't be allowed there by law, they can't be applied there. Let's be aware of that. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that is all. I will certainly have the opportunity to express myself on a number of issues and really set the budget straight in the debate, how much expenditure has really increased, what is the difference between the budget of the government of Nečasův and the government of Rusnokův, etc., but I will not delay that, because there is indeed something else on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u59	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Jan Fischer for bringing us back to the point, i.e. on a timetable for the state budget. That was the last one entered into the debate. I am done with the general debate, we will proceed to the debate in detail. That is where Mr Stanjura would be signed up and then the rapporteur with a resolution. Mr. Chairman of ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u60	In the first speech, I asked when the press was distributed to Members. I didn't get an answer. Because this morning, the budget committee's resolution was not included among the press chambers. That is why there was a problem with me making an official amendment to him in writing, so that I could say the press number now and not have to delay. However, in order to be able to vote on this and not to call into question the proposal procedure, I am making an amendment to the motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies, which - perhaps the Vice-President will help me - we have somewhere at our disposal, I do not know where.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u61	Mr President, Mr Ambassador, I have my statement on the screen that I have from the budget committee, which I have answered your question, because no one here is likely to be prepared for it. In the electronic distribution of documents, this document, i.e. the timetable for the state budget, was on Wednesday after 21 o'clock, because the meeting of the Budget Committee ended, in my opinion, about 20.35, according to the record.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u62	Thank you. Does he have the number?
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u63	He doesn't. I can find out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u64	I'm sorry. If no one objects, without the number of the press I'm making an amendment to. For a timetable that contains a total of 13 points, I propose a change from point 7. That means the first reading would take place today, the deadlines, including today, are the same. From paragraph 7: The Committees shall discuss to them the prescribed chapters and headings of the draft law and forward their resolutions to the Committee on Budgets. In the note: According to the law, the minimum period for committees is 5 days. The proposed deadline was until 9 January 2014. Item 8: The Committee on Budgets shall discuss, with the participation of the rapporteurs of the Committees, the resolutions of the Committees, respectively. the minority opponents' reports, and will also discuss the medium-term expenditure framework for 2015, 2016 - the deadline instead of 13 December 2013 would be until 11 January 2014. Item 9: The Committee on Budgets shall submit to the President: The Chamber of Deputies has its resolution, if any. the opposing report so that it can be distributed 24 hours before second reading, that would be until 13 January 2014. Item 10: The Chamber of Deputies shall discuss the draft law and the resolution of the Committee on Budgets in a detailed debate in the week from 14 January 2014. Point 11 is without a deadline, i.e. Members shall be multiplied and amended after the end of the debate. Item 12: The Chamber of Deputies discusses the bill in its third reading. There's a comment again on legality, at least 48 hours. We propose that this be from 21 January 2014. Item 13: The Chamber of Deputies is discussing a motion for a resolution on medium-term expenditure frameworks after the conclusion of the State Budget Act at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u65	I thank Mr Stanjur and clarify that the draft timetable for the discussion of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2014 and the medium-term expenditure frameworks for 2015 and 2016 in the Chamber of Deputies and its institutions is House Document 83 as stated on the board, and the Committee on Budgets submitted it and delivered it to Members of the electronic distribution on 4 December at 20.57. I therefore now ask the rapporteur to comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In fact, there are two proposals for a vote in a detailed debate. It is the proposal made by President Stanjura and then, of course, vote on the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, which I mentioned at the outset. You should vote on President Stanjura's proposal, unless, of course, because they do not have it in writing, if it is all of them - there is no objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u67	I think there is no problem with House Document 83 because it has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u68	Sorry. I was talking about Mr. Stanjura's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-06-ps2013-002-02-002-008.u69	I think it is acceptable, under the Rules of Procedure, that there should be a written amendment to this proposal, I just asked you to clarify this so that we know what we are going to vote on, because colleague Stanjura is asking for a vote as a whole, not on individual matters in his proposal, so it is one vote. [[11.40 hours]] I think we've all been listening to this, and it's possible to vote. before I do so, I ask whether there is an interest in the final words from the Minister or from you, Mr rapporteur. It's not like that. So we will vote first on Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's proposal, which changes individual dates in the timetable, as he made them in general and in the detailed debate, in the vote on order number 44, which I have just launched, and I ask who is in favour of this proposal by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 44. Of the 187 present for 35, versus 117. The motion was not accepted. We can therefore vote on the proposal under House Document 83 as set out in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets. That is what we will decide in the 45-order vote that I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 45. Of the 187 present for 133, versus 34. The motion was accepted. The motion for a resolution has been approved. Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm ending item number 8 of our meeting. I suppose the application for a factual remark from my colleague, Zaorálek, is just a typo, so I'm gonna erase it. We can proceed with point number 9, which I will begin. It's about
