ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-000-999.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I would ask you to take your seats in the Chamber of Deputies, because it is two o'clock, and we will therefore negotiate at the 4th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Traditionally, I'm going to ask you to lower the level of noise in the room so we can hear each other. I will begin the 4th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I welcome you all to. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a draft agenda for the 4th meeting on 4 December and the invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on the same day. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. Mr Kolovratník - replacement card number 1. We would now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Jiří Dolejš and Mr František Laudát. I'll ask if anyone else has a suggestion. [[No one checked in.]] If this is not the case, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of identifying these two verifiers. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 1, 134 Members and Members registered, for 125, against no one. I note that we have designated Mr Dolejš and Mr Laudát's verifiers. Mrs Zelienková votes with card number 2, Mr Šincl with card number 3. That's all for now. I would also like to inform you that these Members of the Government have asked for an apology before the opening of the meeting. Members of Parliament are Mr Jiří Běhounek - without reason, Mr Bělobrádek - foreign travel, Mr Brázdil - personal reasons, Mr Fiala - without reason, Mr Havíř within about 15 hours without reason, Mr Hájek - medical reasons, Mr KaňkovskKaňkovský - working reasons, Mr Kořenek - working reasons, Mr Okamura - working reasons, Mrs Pastuchová - personal reasons and Mr Schwarzenberg - foreign travel. They apologize from the members of the government: Prime Minister Rusnok - working reasons, Minister Balvín - working reasons, Minister Fischer - foreign travel, Minister Kohout - foreign travel, Minister Koníček - without reason, Minister Lukl - working reasons, Minister Štys - foreign travel and Minister Žák - working reasons. I have now been informed that Mrs Pastuchová is present and directed her apology on Thursday, so it will be read on Thursday. Mr Adámek - replacement card number 4, Mr Volčík - card number 5. We would now proceed to the establishment of the agenda of the 4th meeting, which you received at the invitation. I would like to introduce you to what was agreed today by the Chamber of Deputies. We agreed that we would include new points in the 4th meeting programme, points that we did not discuss and that were excluded from the approved 2nd meeting programme. An overview of these points has been given to you on the bench. There's a total of 16. The Grémium suggests that we include them as the first points of the meeting, with points 1 to 8 being discussed today, we would address the other points as soon as possible. The second proposal is that we comply with the request of the Minister of the Interior and Deputy Prime Minister Martin Pecina to place the following points firmly on the 16th hour for today. It would be points 6, 11, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10, which are prints 14, 32, 13, 28, 29, 30 and 31, first reading of bills. If we were to discuss points 1 to 8 before the time comes for fixed points, we would address the other points according to the proposed and approved agenda. The draft Act on the State Budget, which is paragraph 1 and paragraph 16 of the draft programme, press number 6, we would follow the agreed timetable for the state budget on Monday, 16 December, which would be second reading, from 14:00, and Thursday, 19 December, which would be the third reading. I warn you on this matter that we should vote on the fact that the Chamber of Deputies will act on a different day than is foreseen by law, that is, Monday. We must vote on this and the Chamber of Deputies will decide on it. Furthermore, we would propose to include a new item in the 4th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which is the Proposal for the Election of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. We would place this point firmly on Thursday 12. 12. as the first point in the morning and then we would focus on points from the contract block and possibly on points from the report block, suggestions and others. Last update from my side. I would like to inform you about how we anticipate the conduct of the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations this week. Today we would act within 19 hours, unless, of course, the House decides otherwise, Wednesday, which means tomorrow, the House would not act. The meeting will be adjourned in such a way as to create an area for committee meetings, which must discuss the chapters and headings of the draft law on the State Budget. Thursday 12. 12. we would start a meeting at 9 a.m. and we would act under the approved agenda of the 4th meeting and the House would not act on Friday because there will be room for the budget committee to discuss the resolution of the various committees on the state budget with the participation of the rapporteurs. That's all I'm saying. I am opening the debate on the proposal for a programme. I have Mr Benda's application here. I then register Mr Gabal and Mrs Matušovská's application. Mr. Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-000-999.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government in resignation, I would like to propose three new points to this meeting, in such a way as to include them as the last points. These are points that are based on the work of the mandate and immunity committee. As you know, two requests have been received here, and the House is to decide on these requests at the first subsequent meeting. The mandate and immune committee assumes that they will meet on Monday so that they can give you a recommendation. I wanted it to be included in the meeting so that the House could decide whether it would decide next Thursday or, of course, its sovereign right to interrupt or disable points. Nevertheless, I think that we must propose this for the committee. Therefore, I propose that the points of the request of the District Court in Most for consent to the prosecution of Mr Bohuslav Schwarz and the request of the Organized Crime Detection Unit of the Police of the Czech Republic for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to the criminal prosecution of Mr Bohuslav Svoboda be included at the end of this meeting. I also propose a third point. I'm resigning my membership of the mandate and immunity committee today. This shall release the seat of the Chairman of the mandate and immunity committee. I suppose next Monday a new chairman could be elected to the meeting. I propose that there be another point - confirmation by the chairman of the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-000-999.u3	Thank you. Mr. Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-000-999.u4	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, government. I would like to propose the inclusion of a new item in the programme, namely the discussion of the draft resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the merits of Nelson Mandela. I suppose I don't have to explain too much why this proposal makes sense. Let me just add that I have prepared a very short text that I will make available to you if we decide on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-000-999.u5	Thank you, and I assume that would be the first point in today's negotiations. Isn't that right, Mr. Ambassador? Yes, thank you. Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-000-999.u6	I'm so sorry, there's been a big mistake. I renamed one of our colleagues, Mr. colleague Schwarz. These are not members of Bohuslav Schwarz, but members of Bronislav Schwarz. I apologise very much for this, and I ask that this point be corrected in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-000-999.u7	Yes, thank you. Mrs Matušovská, then Vice-President Vojtěch Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-000-999.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask for item 3, House press 11. It is a government bill on consumer protection. It is actually a serious topic, a problem called. Bastards. And I'd like to put it first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-000-999.u9	So you propose that this be the first point in today's negotiations, that is, if Mr Gabal's proposal goes over the resolution, that would be point two. [[Yes.]] Thank you, we'll vote on it. Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-000-999.u10	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would like to propose now without the item number, but for the item Proposal for the establishment of a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for monitoring the use of wiretaps, etc. to include a point Proposal for the establishment of a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Constitution and Constitutional System, with the number of commissions set up by the Chamber of Deputies being extended by one Commission. I wouldn't give the rest in the statement of reasons until after. It would be a commission that would correspond to the Senate Committee on Constitutional Procedure and Parliamentary Procedures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-000-999.u11	Yes. Mr Vice-President, we have proposed from the Gremium that we include all the items excluded from the previous meeting and as item 1, if the House decides to do so, a motion for the establishment of permanent committees of the Chamber of Deputies will therefore be included. I believe that within this point it is possible to propose the establishment of this commission, more or less any commission. That means, it doesn't have to be a special point, that point number 1 is general, setting up permanent commissions, and within this point, once we get to it and I open it up, I would expect you to propose setting up this committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-000-999.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I suggest it only out of caution, because of course I don't know if that point will be approved, but I suppose it will be. But if it happens that it doesn't work out for us at this meeting, so that it won't be forgotten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-12-10-ps2013-004-01-000-999.u13	Yes, so if the proposed point of establishment of permanent commissions were not included, I would have let your proposal vote on it, otherwise it would have been irrelevant. So that was Vice-President Filip. I'll ask if anyone else is applying to the agenda. If not, then we would gradually go through the individual proposals by voting. I therefore propose that we first vote on proposals from the Gremium, which means that we would first include new points 1 to 16, which are the points from the previous meeting. This is based on the basis given on the bench, with points 1 to 8 firmly ranked today as the first to the eighth point of negotiations, with the fact that if the proposals of my colleague Gabal and colleague Matušovská go through, these points would shift. So whoever agrees with this, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number two, 177 Members and Members signed in, for 176, against no one. This proposal was adopted. We would place points 6, 11, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10 firmly for the 16th hour, which are materials that Minister of Interior Pecina requires. Initiating vote. I'll ask who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 3, registered is 178, in favour of 161, versus 8. This proposal was adopted. We would now vote on the amendment of the 4th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The Chamber of Deputies would provide, by this vote, that the date of its 4th meeting will also be Monday, 16 December. Initiating vote. I'm asking who agrees to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 4, registered is 179, for 151, against 21. This proposal was adopted. We would now vote on the fact that item number 1 of the draft agenda, which is the House's press 6, second reading of the state budget, would be firmly placed on Monday 16. 12 to 14 o'clock. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 5. It's logged in 182, for 167, versus 4. This proposal was adopted. We would now vote on the inclusion of a new point, which is the proposal to elect the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 6, registered is 182, for 178, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. We would now vote on the fact that this point, which we have just included, means the proposal to elect the Vice-President of the House, would be firmly placed on Thursday 12. 12th as the first point in the morning, that means 9 o'clock. Anyway, first point in the morning 12. 12. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 7, registered is 182, for 177. This proposal was adopted. And the last vote from Gremia would be to vote on the fact that the contract block, or reports, proposals and others, would also be discussed on Thursday 12. 12. on fixed points. Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 8, registered is 182, for 178. This proposal has also been adopted. These are, if I'm not mistaken, all the proposals that came out of the grémia negotiations. We will now address the proposals that have been tabled in the debate. At the end of the meeting, Mr Benda proposed to include three new points, two extradition requests and one confirmation from the Chair of the Committee. I think we can vote at once if there is no objection and no request for separate votes. Mr. Laudát? No, he's already overtaking the vote. Okay. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of putting these three new points at the end of the meeting, please press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 9, registered is 183, for 179, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Mr Gabal proposes that we be the first item, which means that we start this item today, a new item will be included - the discussion of the draft resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic appreciating the merit of Nelson Mandela. I'll start the vote, ask who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 10, registered is 183, for 168, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Mrs Matušovská suggests that point 3 should become point 2, with the fact that we would then... [[14.20 hours]] To understand each other, we would therefore begin negotiations on a point that we have now approved, which is a resolution appreciating Nelson Mandela. Then, Madame, you would like to discuss press number 11, and then we would like to address the committees and all the points that we have placed from the Gremium. And then we'd go back to the bills. It's a little complicated, but hopefully we all know what we're voting on. So we are voting that press number 11 should be discussed today as item 2. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 11. 185 Members and Members are registered here. For 97, versus 44. This proposal has also been adopted. I therefore regard Mr Filip's proposal as pointless because we have included a general point on standing committees, and I feel that I have exhausted all the proposals that have fallen from the diaper. If this is the case, we would therefore vote on the agenda, as we first tabled it in writing and now amended it by approved amendments. So I'm taking the vote. Who agrees with this proposed agenda of the meeting as a whole? Please press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote is number 12. 184 Members and Members are registered. For 177, there was no one against it. I am of the opinion that the agenda of the fourth meeting has been approved. And I'm going to open point one. It's him.
