ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u1	9. Proposal for the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies First of all, the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, will be given the floor. Please inform us about the proposed candidates, introduce them to us and introduce us to the next procedure for the election. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u2	Thank you. Once again, Madam President, good noon, honourable Members of the Government in resignation, honourable Members of Parliament. Yesterday, at its second meeting on 26 November 2013, the Election Commission discussed the proposal for the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies submitted by the MPs and adopted its resolution number 8. I would like to inform you that the only candidate for the President of the Chamber of Deputies is Mr Jan Hamáček for the ČSSD. Under Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the President of the Chamber of Deputies is elected by majority and secret ballot. The choice takes place in no more than two rounds. Now, I'm going to ask you to allow me to say a few general words about the organisation of the act itself of the first round of the first election, so that we can do everything in time and without any setbacks. I will remind you that today there will be secret elections not only by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, but also by the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies. The procedure for that choice, though it will be the same, I will repeat to you each time before each secret choice. The Election Commission has prepared 199 ballots bearing the stamp of the Chamber of Deputies with the text of a secret choice and paraphas of two electoral committee verifiers. The ballot shall bear the candidate's choice and shall bear the serial number. We'll issue your ballots in the State Act, it's across the street, for you, for the newcomers. It's just as soon as he comes out of the conference room, on the left hand side. [[12.10 hours]] In the State acts, it will be divided into two halves - on the left side of the room will be prepared tickets for Members whose surnames begin with the letters A to K. Once again: on the left hand side for Members with last names according to the alphabet A to K, on the right side of the room for Members whose surnames begin with the letters L to Z. I ask you, colleagues, when you come for the ballots, to present your name, let's make it quicker. Another big request and also accent: Tickets need to be edited behind the screen, so I ask you not to modify them right at the place where you pick them up, but when you go to the back of the State Act and come to the plate. And in conclusion, one more request: the Election Commission - at that rate, you might accidentally take two ballots from that pile, so please check that you're actually taking one. If the papers were to stick together, give it back to us, because the moment one ticket was missing, the whole choice was invalid, we'd have to repeat everything again. There are eight screens in the polling room at the back before the entrance to the terrace for adjusting the ballots, I was talking about the modification, and two sealed ballot boxes. Only those ballots are valid, which are adjusted either by agreeing with the candidate by ringing the serial number before the name, or by crossing out the serial number of the candidate with a large X if you want to cross it out. Otherwise, the modified ballot is invalid. So here I'm going to ask you once more, half-pathically, I hope you don't take this the wrong way, but just in case, you're going to say yes to the candidate by ringing the number - so it's working with the number - if you don't agree, you're going to cross it out. Please note that the modified or modified ballot is considered invalid. Let's hope we're clear. In the first round, the President of the Chamber of Deputies is elected a candidate, so in the case of today, he is the only candidate who will receive an absolute majority of the votes of Members present. If the candidate does not obtain the majority of the majority present, the second round of the election shall take place. The same candidate shall proceed to the second round of the election, if any, and if he is not elected in the second round, that is to say, he will not obtain an absolute majority, pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 18 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall take place at the latest within ten days of the first round of the second election. This will take place with the new candidate or new candidates who submit the parliamentary clubs to the electoral committee no later than 24 hours before the day of the election. I will now ask Madam President to open the debate on the proposed candidate for the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u3	Thank you, Mr President, and I am opening the debate. Please, those of you who want to step out, raise your hand, sign up for the debate. Mr. President of the Citizen's Democratic Party, Zbyněk Stajnura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u4	Have a nice noon, Madam President, colleagues. Allow me to interpret our club's brief position. We will support the candidacy of Jan Hamáček as President of the Chamber of Deputies, for the simple reason that we respect the winner of the elections and respect the view that the winner of the elections is to take the position of President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u5	I also thank you and ask for another application to the debate on the proposal for the President of the Chamber of Deputies. No one is reporting, which is why I am ending the debate. As you have already been informed, the election will now take place, the President of the Election Commission has announced how this will be done. The issue of ballots will begin immediately after the interruption of our negotiations. And the extradition - now I beg you, Mr President, to help me. How long will you need as an election committee, how much time to issue ballots, then to process the election results so that we can meet here again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u6	Colleagues, we have calculated and proposed that tickets - for issuing tickets will be enough 30 minutes, which means, I think I can propose from 12.20 to 12.50, and to sum up, the voting committee will need another 30 minutes. This means that we would be able to announce the outcome of the first round of the President's election in an hour, at 13.20.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u7	Thank you. This means that the issue of ballots will now begin, so it will be an opportunity for you to pick them up by 12.50 when you have to pick them up, then the election committee will be working. I am interrupting our meeting until 13.20, where we will meet again in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to call all our colleagues to the Chamber of Deputies with the help of the gong, so that we can continue the adjourned meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I shall be the first to ask for the floor of the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník. I ask you, Mr President, to inform us of the outcome of the secret election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you. I welcome all the Czech TV viewers as well. I see we're being closely monitored, so information flows very quickly. But once again, it's official. Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I would like to officially inform you at this time of the outcome of today's first election and of the first round of the first election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I note that a total of 198 ballots have been issued by the electoral commission and 198 ballots have been submitted in the sum of both valid and invalid ballots. Jan Hamáček's MEPs have been given the vote, i.e. a yes, a total of 195 Members. I note that in the first round of the election, Mr Jan Hamáček was elected President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I will remain in this chair for a moment only to wish this microphone to the newly elected President of the Chamber of Deputies for all of us, and at the same time to ask for his word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u11	Thank you. Dear Members, dear Government, let me begin by thanking Mrs Miroslava Němcová for her work as President of the Chamber of Deputies during the last parliamentary term. [[Let's hear it. Let's hear it.]] And please allow me to thank you for your trust at this point. I accept the position of President of the Chamber of Deputies with humility and look forward to working with each and every one of you. 95 years ago, in November 1918, when František Tomášek took up the chair of the revolutionary National Assembly, he began his speech with the following words: "I take my words with deep inner movement to declare that the immensely honorable task that you have chosen to put on my shoulders, I accept and that I am determined to fulfill it with all objectivity towards all members and to all the parties of this glorious meeting. I am fully aware that in this place I am the interpreter and bearer of the common will and joint efforts of all of us together." This House Hall has often witnessed a sharp exchange of views between Members representing the various parliamentary parties and the currents of opinion in the past. This is certainly natural, and it belongs to parliamentary democracy. Yet this can happen in an atmosphere that is more enthusiastic about the spirit of tolerance and cooperation, and I would very much like to contribute to this atmosphere. In my new position, I would like to improve, along with you, the perception of the Chamber of Deputies in the public eye, and I hope that the House will become a genuine constructive workshop in this new term, in which laws will be adopted that will benefit our country and all its citizens. I would also like to help by making more active use of parliamentary diplomacy in close cooperation with the government to spread good name abroad and promote its national interests. In cooperation with the Chamber of Deputies' Office, I also want to create a quality background for the work of Members and Members, and I am ready for a possible discussion with all the Members' clubs on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like all of us to approach our work together responsibly and have the courage in our decisions to always put the interests of the Republic and its citizens first. I wish you a lot of strength, good health and good health for all of us in our parliamentary work. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it again. The Chairman of PS Jan Hamáček is leaving for the meeting place and handing over the flower to Mrs. Miroslava Němcová. With the bouquet comes the head of the PS Office Petr Kynštetr.]] Mrs Miroslava Němcová asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u12	Mr President, honourable Members, I asked the newly elected President of the Chamber of Deputies to be the first to speak after his election from this microphone. And not only towards him as a person who was elected to our forehead, but also towards you, because I have had this opportunity to speak towards you, to those who have been reelected and are not newcomers in the Chamber of Deputies, in recent years. Therefore, as former President of the Chamber of Deputies, I consider it my duty here to congratulate - I have already said this - the President of the newly elected, but I would also like to say to him before all of you that he will find support in me if he demands it and needs my experience, which I gained from the time I was in charge of the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, I would like to introduce you to the fact that in just a few moments it must take place - no longer in your presence, but nevertheless serious - the handover of this function. On this occasion, I will hand over to the President the key to the coronation chamber at Prague Castle, key number 5 of the total seven that exist. The key number 5 belongs to the Chamber of Deputies. Next, I'm gonna hand him the documentation I'm very proud of. I think that we who were in the Chamber of Deputies have enjoyed the new logo that I received for the Chamber of Deputies during the last parliamentary term and created it for all of us and for those who will come after us, the academic painter Oldřich Kulhánek. He is an extraordinary creator with world reputation, who unfortunately died this year, but we all know his work because we meet him most often. He's the creator of our bills. So I will also pass this documentation on to the President for the possibility of using the logo for the Chamber of Deputies. What I will pass on to him next, third in a row, will be the commemorative book that we have introduced next to the historical book, which, if you are interested, is available in the Parliamentary Library and contains the names of important guests who, at or after the time of the first Republic, visited these places and were official guests in the legislature. As a fourth, I'll give him two sets of records. One of them is the memorandum that we, as the Chamber of Deputies, concluded on cooperation between us, the legislators and the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. I believe that this cooperation is useful for all future periods, because the academic world is certainly one of the voices of those who can help us find the best solutions to decide the fates of our country. [[13.30 hours]] The last thing I want to give him is another memorandum. It also relates to the history of this building, the history of what was happening in it, and it was written with the Ministry of Culture. It will be up to this House to decide how further this cooperation will continue. We have just obtained seven historical paintings of the Marshals of the Czech Land Assembly for the Chamber of Deputies, who have worked in this area since 1861. These paintings are owned by the Czech Republic, managed by the Ministry of Culture, were lent to us by the National Museum and are now in the premises of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. These are the things I would like to pass on to the Prime Minister. I believe that this kind of work in areas with an academic community or with a cultural community will develop as I have tried to do myself. Mr President, allow me once again to congratulate you, wish you well in your task, which you have taken on today. I also wish you to play your part in favour of the citizens of the Czech Republic, in favour of the Chamber of Deputies and to be satisfied with it yourself. I also wish you good health and background in your family, which will be necessary for you to be able to carry out your task in all seriousness. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u13	I would like to thank Mrs Němcová for her performance. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will now be forced to interrupt our negotiations because I am expected to sign all your parliamentary documents so that you can pick them up today. And, as the former President has already announced, there must be some additional requirements. I'll interrupt this meeting for 40 minutes. Meet me here at 2:15.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, we will continue. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby with the gong. [[After a while:]] I'm gonna ask you to calm down so we can lower the sound level in the room a little bit. We should continue with point 10, however, before I open item 10, the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, Mr Marek Benda, came forward. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government in resignation. On 27 November 2013, the President of the Chamber of Deputies was delivered into his own hands a notary record giving up the mandate of a Member of the docent of Deputies. doktor Miloslav Bačiak, D On this day Mr. Bačiak's parliamentary mandate expired and the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic Jan Sobotka. At its second meeting of today's meeting, the mandate and the Immune Committee adopted Resolution No 9 in which it stated that, pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3 and 6 (a). (c) Law No 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, Mr Miloslav Bačiak disappeared, while he stated that Mr Jan Sobotka, an alternate member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic had been appointed on 27 November 2013. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-004-009.u16	Thank you to President Benda. I will now ask if Mr Sobotka is present. It's not like that. In this case, if the Member is not present, he shall take his vows at the first meeting to be held. We've dealt with this thing. I'm opening point number now.
