ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u1	20. Legal provision of the Senate amending Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, and Act No. 55/2012 Coll., amending Act No. 137/2006 Sb., on public procurement, as amended /German press 4/ On behalf of the Government, the Prime Minister, Mr Jiří Rusnok, will state the legal measure submitted. I ask him to take the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me, therefore, to mention this in a series of the last legislative measures of the Senate amending the law on public procurement and so on. I'm not gonna repeat the long name. This measure was approved by the Senate on 10 October 2013 and was subsequently announced in the Collection of Laws under No. 341/2013. The Government's proposal for a legislative measure to the Senate was identical to the wording of the amendment of the law submitted by the previous Government to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament - or our government, I apologize - in August of this year as the Parliament's press 1128. However, as a result of the subsequent dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies, it has no longer been discussed. As for urgency... If this legal measure had not been approved by the Senate, it would, in the Government's view, have serious consequences due, in particular, to the impossibility of the award of an excessive and significant public contract. Furthermore, there would be damage in the form of a disproportionate increase in the number of public contracts awarded. I'll also get an explanation for these matters. This would certainly be a significant negative impact on both the business and non-business sectors and would cause further legal uncertainty. The point is that, if this measure is not approved, contracting entities will have a choice in the case of over- and significant public contracts only between the impossibility of the award of the contract and the procedure, which will, however, be in direct conflict with the Public Procurement Act, and this non-compliance cannot, in our view, be overcome by the interpretation of the law. Furthermore, in the case of public works contracts, there would be a significant increase in the obligation to register them and the associated costs. The procurement process would thus be crippled to a large extent from 1 January next year and there would be additional excessive financial costs, which would be completely inefficient and ineffective. In view of these impacts, the government was forced to respond to this situation and, as far as possible, with regard to legislative action, this could only be done by the Senate's legal measures. The reason why the form of the legal measure was chosen for the adoption of the proposed amendments is the need to make these amendments to the Public Procurement Act with effect from 1 January 2014 at the latest. Now to the changes of the material nature itself. Currently, there is no person who fulfils the conditions for a so-called "special competence" whose expression should have been conditional on the opening of a procurement procedure for an over-the-limit contract as of January 2014 under the original version of the Act. Therefore, in our view, it is necessary to repeal this institute with effect from 1 January 2014. Similarly, in the case of a person selected from the list of evaluators. This person is to be a member of the evaluation committee in the case of a significant public contract, but unfortunately there is no list of assessors and it is certain that it could not even exist by 1 January 2014. If the legal measure of the Senate is not approved, there is a risk of inability to award overlime and significant public contracts in the Czech Republic. Annually, for your information, approximately 3,500 over-limit public contracts of a total volume exceeding 200 billion are awarded. Crowns. As regards major public contracts, approximately 80 major public contracts are scheduled for next year for a cumulative estimated value of more than 82 billion. Crowns. Another real threat is the slowdown in the use of European subsidies. In the absence of the amendments in question, the beneficiaries of the subsidies would not be able to draw on the subsidy allocated for the implementation of the above-limit public contract, since they would not be able to award the contract in such a way as to avoid breach of the Public Procurement Act. However, the legal procedure is one of the basic conditions for the reimbursement of the subsidy. On the basis of Senator Eybert's amendment, the Senate's legal measure increases the current limits from the previous 3 million. CZK without VAT for 6 million CZK without VAT in the case of public works contracts and from the previous 1 million. CZK without VAT for 2 million. CZK without VAT in the case of public supply and service contracts. The Government's proposal for a Senate legal measure provided for the maintenance of current limits, i.e. 1 million. for deliveries and services and 3 million. for construction work. Without the approval of the Senate's legal measure, there would have been a reduction in the limit of the existing 3 million in public works contracts. 1 million, which would lead to an increase in administrative burdens and financial costs both on the part of contracting entities and on the part of suppliers. Furthermore, this would slow down the investment process in the construction sector, since the duration of the procedure before the conclusion of the contract would be disproportionately extended and thus the market for construction contracts would probably also be negatively affected in general. In the event of a reduction in the limit for public works contracts to 1 million. CZK without VAT can be expected to increase tender procedures in the subliminal regime by approximately 11 500 tender procedures per year, i.e. About 100 per cent compared to the current state. Finally, I would like to stress that the content of the Senate's legal measure was generally supported across the ministries and expert organisations dealing with the issue of public procurement, and there was a general consensus on its correctness and the need for its speedy adoption. It can also be noted that the legislative measure submitted by the Senate is, in our view, in accordance with Article 33 of the Constitution, which lays down cumulative conditions which are necessary to enable this exceptional legislative solution to be chosen. [[21.50 hours]] Amendments tabled by the Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment, the Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport, as well as the Senate Constitutional Committee have been applied to the draft Senate legal measure. Furthermore, amendments by the senators were adopted, including the proposed amendment by Senator Pavel Eybert, which dealt with the limits of public procurement. An amendment by Senator Jaroslav Kubera was also adopted to abolish the obligation to express mandatory authorised architect, authorized engineer or authorized technician on the procurement terms of the above-limit public contract. It was then proposed that point 4 be deleted from the text of the draft legislative measure of the Senate, i.e. Section 71, par. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (c) which required that, in the case of a repetition of a procurement procedure which was cancelled on account of a single tender, the terms of the new procedure should not narrow the range of potential suppliers. The remaining amendments were of a technical nature and were also adopted. The Government does not dispute the amendments adopted and has agreed to the amendments made. In the light of the above and of the urgency of the situation in which contracting authorities find themselves, whether it be municipalities, cities, regions, public undertakings, or the State, and given also, I would say, a relatively poor economic situation, particularly in the field of construction, but also in other departments representing suppliers of contracting authorities, I would like to ask you, honourable Members, to approve the legal measure put forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'll ask the President of the Senate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, for this legal measure, the Senate was most in doubt whether the requirement of urgency was met. There really were discussions here, and opinions were different. Finally, the Senate decided to find it, and the impulse was a very strong position, especially by representatives of cities and municipalities. We heard them with the Prime Minister when we both attended meetings, respectively. General meetings of the Union of Towns and Municipalities in České Budějovice, where representatives of cities and municipalities were several hundred. And it can be said that in every speech there was a request that we change this in the spirit of a prepared government proposal, which, however, due to the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies, was stopped in its procedure. Of course, here it is proof of urgency only in the economic area, but we think that at a time when our economy is unfortunately longer in red figures, construction production has fallen very sharply down for several years, so that any impulse to correct and turn around is valuable. But there was a risk that the situation would deteriorate rapidly, because the municipalities under the new conditions laid down in Law 55 of 2012 would probably mean another fall. I must say that there was a great consensus, of the 60 Senators and Senators present, 57 voted in favour of this proposal. Finally, I would like to say that right here, as the Prime Minister also said, they have fundamentally moved this proposal even further than the government has proposed, precisely the amendments made by colleagues from the right spectrum. A colleague of Eybert and Kubera brought in a major shift, which is, of course, advantageous for the municipalities. The government didn't even suggest it. And I would very much like the Chamber of Deputies to prove to the future, in contrast to the last period, that, as it is still more successful in the Senate, to judge, above all, what a proposal it is, for whom it is beneficial and for whom it is not beneficial, and that it does not matter whether it is given by any of this or that political spectrum, but mainly to serve the prosperity of the Czech Republic and the citizens of the Czech Republic. I'm happy for you and thank you for listening to me today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u5	I also thank the President of the Senate. I am opening a general debate. I have two applications - Mrs Jana Fischerová, Mrs Věra Jourová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Senate, Prime Minister, I will follow up on what my previous speakers have said here, and I remember well the last words that need to be worked rationally. And I will give my opinion, but I will actually express my opinion to the Citizen's Democratic Party. Among us is a number of former, current mayors, mayors of municipalities and cities. I myself will also say more practical knowledge of my past activity as mayor of the 25,000th city, when I experienced this on my own, because I will not repeat what Prime Minister Rusnok said here. I had the numbers ready just like he did. Just as the President of the Senate has said here that the Senate has considered very much, if this is really necessary to discuss under Article 33 of the Constitution, it is about the political decision that the Senate has made. And actually the chairman of our MP Zbyněk Stanjura mentioned this technical amendment to the Public Procurement Act, that it is not quite necessary, but we also know that each of us received a personal letter from the President of the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, where Dan Jiránek appealed to us to support this law in a matter of fact. I myself know how for mayors, mayors also, municipalities, especially small ones, to have better conditions so that there isn't so much administration. And the other measures that are in this technical amendment should make it easier. In particular, there was also an expression that he was on 1. 1. 2014 was not enough to train all those persons with so-called. special qualifications within the Ministry of Regional Development, which is precisely what is urgent. I understand that. But the other things that haven't been named here yet - shh. Please, calm down, they don't listen to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u7	I have tried several times without using the microphone to warn the group on the left, but it did not fall my warning on fertile soil. So, unfortunately, next time, I guess I'll have to name and ask for peace. I'm sorry, Madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u8	Mr President, thank you. It was a mixed group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u9	We're sitting alphabetically, so it was somewhere from B to D.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u10	Thank you. My neighbors are listening. I'll get back to the subject. There has also not yet been a concrete clarification here today as to what the Civil Democratic Party is seeking for the future. And we know because there are many of us here, I will say across the political spectrum, experienced with the implementation of self-government, and there are often delays when a complaint is filed with the Office for the Protection of Competition. That is why I will say and stress that the Civil Democratic Party has long sought to ensure that, in addition to ensuring transparency in public procurement, this law has in the future better set conditions to prevent abuse of the appeal institute. We know that many of these appeals have been there for a long time. So we would also like to support the setting of fixed time limits for proceedings at the Office for the Protection of Competition in the future. Finally, I am really brief, so I will say that in conclusion we want to support these legal measures of the Senate as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u11	Thank you, Madame. Another registered, so far the last in the general debate, is Mrs Věra Jourová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me first enjoy this noble moment when I can speak for the first time in the lower chamber of our Parliament. [[Short silence.]] I've already enjoyed it, thank you. Today we are discussing legal provisions on public procurement, as the Prime Minister has put forward here. This law is significant because it flows through it annually, I do not know if the number of CZK 300 billion has fallen here, and it is of great importance to whether we invest or not to invest from the position of the public sector. We discussed this legal measure at the club, and I, as a guarantor of this area of the club, proposed that we agree to this legal measure, because I see that there is a danger of delay in the sense that if the legal measure was not adopted, there is a real risk that extralimity and significant public procurement will cease in the Czech Republic. And, of course, I am also at the heart of the fundamental threat to the use of European funds. As has been said here, one of the defects that we are forced to remove today is that the Ministry of Regional Development has not trained so-called. persons with special competence to assist in the award of large contracts and that this Ministry does not keep a list of assessors. It was said here that the law which removed this defect was passed to Parliament in August. I'd take a little poke at the Ministry in the sense that somebody had good nerves there, because the fact that the Ministry didn't get the resources to train people must have known before summer, but I guess it could have been dealt with sooner. Then, in August, the petitioner was surprised by the dissolution of the House, and I think he wasn't alone. Furthermore, in addition to the problem here, this legal measure actually increases the limits for the award of services and construction contracts to 2 to 6 million. Personally, many colleagues from our club welcome this, as well as many mayors, and the Union of Towns and Communities, as has been said here, because in the extreme complexity that our law on public procurement holds, it is absolutely correct to increase the limit. I think that each of you who somehow got into the procurement process, you know that our law does not really make the situation easier for contracting authorities, even if I say it complicates it. This increase in limits is criticized by many that it extends corruption space, that, in fact, contracts will not be so controlled under those limits. And I say let it be combined with the Act on the Register of Contracts, where the public learns about who draws money from a public contract, who executes contracts for public money, and at the same time I believe that the law, which is full of formal obligations, that I really, feel, may even miss in the anti-corruption ethos or effect, because, please, nicely, let us not mistake that if the contracting authority must add a few dozen more papers and get them several dozen stamps that this is the barrier against corruption. Personally, I'm convinced that the law will miss its effect here. Let us please measure this - I do not know if anyone has measured it, whether the law is really preventing corruption and how much it is, and let us measure the billions that we will be losing with the work of not drawing European funds precisely because the law is complex and, in many cases, bulletproof. I'd like to see these two numbers even. It is not without interest that complaints for CZK 50 billion are supposed to be lodged at the Competition Authority, which should be financed from Brussels. Once again, let's measure the anti-corruption effect, if we can do that, in finance, and against that, we'll take the losses that we're going to lose if we don't change the law in the future, because we're going to get another large amount of funding from Brussels. Let me ask you another provocative question. We have reached the absolute bottom in comparison with EU countries in error rates and criminal acts that are happening in the drawing of funds. I'll keep the criminal stuff out of the way. Mistakes occur to a fundamental extent in the process and outcome of public procurement. And I'm asking: Is it true that our mayors, representatives of nonprofits, entrepreneurs are incompetent and stupider than the same ones who are contracting in Hungary, even in Romania, have not mentioned other countries? I think there might be a mistake somewhere else. Let's see if we're burdening our contracting authority with an extremely complex public procurement law. Personally, I believe that we do and that we have to deal with this. Perhaps many of you know that today, within the EU, a new directive on public procurement is under discussion, called a labour minimalist directive, which makes it significantly easier or reduces the administrative burden imposed on the contracting authority. I very much intercede at a time when we will harmonise and amend the law on public procurement probably during this programming period, so that we are not again more papal than the Pope and that we take Brussels' demands as the maximum possible and do not add any more complexity and make it any more difficult for our contracting entities. I think we can have it on the table here within two years of approving the directive, or we have to have it to transpose it into our legal order. I very much intercede for simplification. Finally, thank you for your attention. As the last speaker, admit that I didn't have it completely easy, and I repeat again, the ANO club is ready to raise its hand for this legal measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u13	I will ask Mr Polčák to endure. You're obviously not the last speaker. Let me ask you, really or properly? [[Properly.]] Then please wait, because Mr. Ivan Adamec is duly registered, and then I'm registering your application. Mr. Adamč, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u14	Thank you. Mr President, Mr President of the Senate, honourable government in demise, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I have been mayor for 15 years, 16 years I continue in this situation, and I have to say one thing - that all amendments to the Public Procurement Act were worse than the previous one. I have to say, we started with this fascicle of documents, so today we have this fascicle of documents. And I want to say one thing -- if we don't understand one thing, if the contracting authority, the investor, and the supplier disagree that it shouldn't be stolen, it won't work. I'm saying this because I've been through a lot of myths about it. Today, as mayors, we are placed in a situation where we are corrupters, because no one dares choose a contract that is more expensive than the cheapest, because the Czech proverb still pays for little money for little music. And if we don't want to hear this, I'm sorry, because really the experience after the latest novels is that contracts are actually being awarded to firms that don't do good work or that they're getting magistrates, city officials, in a situation where they don't know what to do. And it's a big problem that needs to be solved. Because saying that we can choose a more expensive contract under some other conditions, that's wrong, because everyone's scared today. Whoever chooses a more expensive contract is called a corrupter, and God knows what he doesn't get out of it. The way I see it, you need to look at it with a new perspective, and you need to get rid of the mayor's sticker because it's not. We all want the city to build for that money what it needs to build and, of course, at the lowest cost of the highest quality. The problem, however, is that today all of Europe is based on grant systems, and here I see the fundamental problem, because subsidies to me are the word corruption. Whether we want to or not, and I am not an expert in this area of corruption, when corruption - we need to ask ourselves what it is. But what I'm saying is, if the subsidy isn't eligible, there's the problem with corruption, whether it's financial corruption, social corruption, if you know someone or you don't know someone, and here I see the big problem. [[22.10 hours]] I think the system is all wrong, but we are not going to do anything about it because we live in Europe, we live in the European Union, and it is a fundamental problem that we simply have to deal with, we have to figure it out somehow. On the other hand, I must say that if this system should work, it is necessary to look for systems that will be such that perhaps eliminate the possibility of corruption. Now I'm not just talking about financial corruption, I'm talking about social. It's very complicated. Personally, I don't know much about this, because since we've known society, whether it's a Roman society, a Greek society, this has been the problem of all the historical societies we've experienced here in this world. I must say that what happened here in this legal regulation, of course I welcome it. On the other hand, it is very difficult to correct the wrong law and I consider the Public Procurement Act to be a very bad law. I recommend that we approve this legal regulation, but let us try to think about it so that in this holy fight against corruption, we do not pour out a bathtub and a child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u15	Thank you. Mr Polčák is the last member so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a question of whether it stays that way, if I stay the last logged in. I'm sorry that honored colleague Věra Jourová wasn't the last one. However, her speech has touched on a very delicate problem, namely the issue of corruption, which will undoubtedly be brought up and we will have to respond to it, whether doubling the limits we are talking about at the moment is, therefore, a pro-corruption step, which is, as if, on the way back from previous declarations, or whether it is the right measure. I understood from her speech that she considered this measure to be factually correct. I think there's another point of view. The first one that she said here, the way back, whether it is indeed a corrupt step, or the one that may come out in the mouth, but secondly, of course, it is also a question of constitutionality, because it has been reestablished here again by the honourable colleague Professor Válková, who drew attention to this in tax legislation. I think that is true even here, i.e. in the field of public procurement. Why is Prime Minister Rusnok's government proposing, in a state of necessity, as I paraphrase freely in Article 33, limits 3 and 1, that is to say, the government stands behind this, and then in the Senate agrees to double the limits? I would like the Prime Minister to speak once more if my speech provokes him to explain why the government is proposing something once, and then it will probably show that it has been wrong, and it is proposing twice as much. In my opinion, this already shows that playing with these limits cannot satisfy the definition of the constitutional condition laid down in Article 33. Secondly, I want to say that when we change the limits, because we are de facto condemned to approve this legal measure if we do not want to cause the de facto superlimity of proceedings to be de facto sabotaged, so I want to say that we have to do this, but knowing that we cannot then move those limits, because the idea that in six months someone will come again, and those anti-corruption organizations will be a whole series, and they will talk and force us to do it, and I can imagine my colleagues from Reconstruction of the State, that they will just come along with this proposal and challenge us, if not forcing us to lower the limits, so everyone will have to stand up to it, and I want to say that we cannot change the legal limits that are set for individual public procurement procedures every month or half a year or what year. With great self-confidence, maybe even with my eyes closed, I will support this legal measure, but I really believe that Prime Minister Rusnok owes us an answer to why the government proposed something that it considered necessary in the light of Article 33 of the Constitution, but subsequently accepted that it may even be twice as much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u17	I will ask the Prime Minister whether he wants to speak in the debate or whether he will include the answer in his final words. Excellent. I will precautionaryally close the general debate and open the debate in detail, which nobody is reporting to, so I am also closing it. So now there is room for final words. The President of the Senate is giving up his word, so the only final word will be the Prime Minister's word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Members, I may not have made myself very clear in my rather long opening words, but the situation was quite simple. We have taken over the amendment of the law prepared by the previous government. The amendment to the law was obviously created because the previous government realized the unsustainable status of the law, which predicted changes to 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The previous government may have decided in advance that it would approve and that it would not be necessary that the list of authorized persons would not be fulfilled, and the exact limits that we put in the proposal for a legal measure were in the proposal of the previous government. We didn't change the line. If there was clear support in the Senate across the spectrum, and the number of senators who voted in favour, the President of the Senate said that the Senate was willing to approve the legal measures only with these changes, I had the only option - to withdraw the legal measure and create chaos that would occur because there would be nothing. So I think we have acted completely rationally and we have agreed, we have accepted the proposal, which had a clear majority in the Senate, to increase the limits. I think it's been said here. You know, I think if there's a limit of three or one, it can be stolen in one and the other. The limit on stealing doesn't make any decisions. Let's not look at the limits of a miraculous shem, but let's look for it in the overall design of the law. I agree that this requires, without a doubt, further repairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2013-11-27-ps2013-001-02-015-020.u19	I thank the Prime Minister for the final word. I guess we can take a vote on legal measures. I'm gonna ring the bell, and I'm gonna invite my co-workers from the lobby. Nobody's coming. I suppose all those who want to vote are already here. I would like to make a motion for a resolution which reads: 'The Chamber of Deputies shall approve, in accordance with Rule 33 (2) '. 5 Constitution of the Czech Republic legal measures of the Senate No. 341/2013 Coll., amending Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, and Act No. 55/2012 Coll., amending Act No. 137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended.' Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with this resolution should press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is serial number 22, registered by 179 colleagues, for 166, there was no one against it. I am of the opinion that the legal measure has been approved. I'm done with point 20. We're going to move on to the last point of today's program, which is
