ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90769	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're continuing the session. It is the agenda item: - Final proposal of the Law on Medicinal Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 704 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on European Integration. Before I ask the minister here, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90770	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'd just like a few sentences or one proposal on behalf of the HSS Club. For 5 days now, Croatia has been shaking a big affair over privatisation. That's what the media says, and most of the information is coming from the media. I ask you to respect the proposal of the HSS Club to open a debate here in the Parliament on this. To invite Prime Minister Ivo Sanader to introduce us to what has happened so far. But also, it would be good to draw conclusions through the debate that would oblige the government to proceed in the further process? Is the agency going to be shut down? How are we going to go with further privatisations that are under way and that are ahead of us? I believe that because of the public interest and our interest that must be more active, it would be good to open this debate in the Parliament today, but of course after the report by the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90771	Thank you. I will submit your proposal and respond in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. Whether the proposer's representative wishes to further explain the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr Neven Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90772	The proposal for a law on medicinal products with a draft final proposal is another law harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in the field of medicinal products with the legislation of the European Union. Allow me in short lines, so a few sentences about the law itself and the thematics that this law is currently passing. For the first time, certain definitions of certain concepts have been introduced, and yet I repeat in accordance with certain directives where, for example, traditional herbal medicine is defined. So where does it define exactly what a generic drug is? Where do you define what the original drug is? So a whole series of different concepts that are extremely significant not only for this law and legislative basis but also for our daily practice, and I'm going to say clinical practice. So in the everyday health care provided to our citizens. One of the things that are extremely important and that this law adopts is about putting the finished drug on the market. Namely, if the finished medicinal product has not been on the market in the Republic of Croatia for three years after it has been authorised to place the finished medicinal product on the market, the Agency has the right to withdraw the marketing authorisation. So if there is no 3 years on the market, then the agency has the right to withdraw that authorisation. Of course, this isn't the general rule. There are also exceptions that can be related to the protection of public, public health for the protection of both health and individual and nation and, of course, the agency has the right to make an exception if I repeat it of national interest. One of the provisions of this law is related to a special group of medicines called "orfan drugs". These are drugs for extremely rare but very severe diseases. What exactly is this about? Today in Croatia, we have 25 children who are being treated with extremely expensive medicines. When I say I collect, I think I am, therefore, talking about prices that are several tens of thousands of euros and even more. Such a list of medicines shall be taken as a single list at European Union level. With these legal provisions, Croatia will for the first time equalise itself entirely with a list of medicines that are present in the European Union. So all of our children, and for example now we have two children where the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has approved a new medicine from that list. So for the first time, our children will have without any influence from associations, without waiting for the right to take these medicines from that list of medicines. What is extremely significant and I must admit what has been followed by great approval and by our patient associations is that certain medicines could not be prescribed legitimately in Croatia. Why? Because they weren't registered. The largest number is precisely from this group of medicines for rare and very severe diseases. And why weren't they registered? Because there was no one who would have even started the registration process. Neither the producer nor the importer wanted to initiate the registration procedure. Why? Because he was just uneconomy to them. Such medicine may be taken by two, three children in Croatia. The financial benefit they would have had would not be so great, and the registration procedure itself is extremely demanding. And that is why we here give a clear provision that if it is about protecting the interests of individual health, the group that the Ministry of Health and Social Care can take on a proactive role and just run the registration process. Of course, the prerequisite for the drug to enter, to be prescribed in Croatia, is of course to be registered. We also clearly define here, and I want to make that public for the first time, and that is the emergency withdrawal procedure for the finished drug. Today, a list of Croatian medicines is open. What does that mean? Croatia does not want and will no longer go below some standards. We have standards for neighbouring countries in Austria, Germany, Belgium, France. Our list has everything that today's most modern drug lists across Europe have. Of course, in this context of an open list where we are open to all new, more quality, better preparations, of course, it may occur that a certain series of medicines has an invalidity, that certain unaccountable packages have some kind of malfunction. And we've seen it in recent years, and that's when we found a way to quickly withdraw the drug from traffic. Exactly what we've been practicing, in which today's agency, and we give great powers to the agency according to the best solutions in Europe again, so to our Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, we can practically withdraw all drugs from the shelves within 24 hours today. Of course, such a mechanism is extremely significant and here it is regulated as such. I want to make it clear here that one big step that we have been warned about and many patient associations, which is that the name of the medicinal product must also be given in Braille's letter. Of course here was the question whether all the instructions for a particular medicine could also be found on Braille's letter is yes, but if there is a direct request from certain associations. This provision, I think, actually represents one big step. Secondly, for the first time in the area of drug trafficking, we clearly define assumptions for the adoption of large and low drug-intoxicated acts as well as finished drugs containing intoxicating drugs. Why is this significant? So I'm going to remind you of the drug abuse laws that, in fact, in the drug matter, of course, focused on the drug law. But the drug law we've had so far hasn't adequately solved that matter. And we have big problems. For example, someone who came to Croatia as a tourist brought his medicine with him, such as Apaurina, Normabela, Praxiten or similar medicines, then he did not have adequate documentation that we legally recognise and often such a man could be brought into our police station. Why? Because he's carrying with him a certain kind of intoxicating drug. Secondly, we did not have a clear record or a better legal regulation, which is the records of exactly the intoxicating drugs of the prescription of these drugs, but also of all those drugs that contain the elements of the intoxicating drugs. That's exactly what this law is about. Although I have to be honest with you that we've already established such a list. Why? Because here we couldn't actually wait for these legal provisions. One of the significant segments of this law is related to pharmacovigilance. What's pharmacovigilance? This is a set of activities related to detection, evaluation, understanding and treatment in case of side effects. We have clearly stated here that all participants in the treatment process, in the drug registration process, all those involved in the treatment at all are obliged to inform the Agency of the side effects. So we give the Agency, like everywhere in Europe, great authority in the field of pharmacovigilance, and I think right now the Agency really deserves it. Perhaps the greatest recognition is that our Agency is part of a single European system, so where all the agencies of the European Union countries are tied, and Croatia is part of this association. One of the things we also define inside, which is to check the quality of each batch of the finished drug. I would like to make it clear here that every series is subject to a verification provision, and in accordance with the European Union directives, there are exceptions. If the medicine, and how much quality of the medicine is controlled in the European Union, then, of course, there is no need for additional control unless it has been notified that it is in the past or in the present, and according to some information, a problem with a particular series, with a particular medicine. Therefore, if the product comes from a controlled source, if the quality is controlled in the European Union countries then quality control will not be accessed, of course, if everything is okay with that series within its turnover. If, of course, there is a suspicion of the quality of the medicine then the medicine is controlled regardless of what has been previously controlled in the European Union. If the medicine is correct, its quality will naturally be borne by the Ministry of Health and Social Care. If the quality is not good then, of course, the costs of this quality control will be borne by the marketing authorisation holder. Another significant step we have made in defining advertising and information. I'll give you a very nice example. Here we were talking about the side effects of the drug. It is in our interest that our media bring information about the withdrawal of the drug. Can they bring this information in such a way as to use an unprotected name? I can't. And automation, and on our inquiry, on our request when they bring a protected name they have so far violated the law. And that is why we want to distinguish two things, an advertising that is absolutely inappropriate and that we oppose and that has its own breaking provisions if information comes to it. Information is something that is aimed at only informative publication of facts and professional materials. And by disseminating these two things, so advertising against whom we are and the information we have to keep we are doing a big step here really to allow our media to actually bring relevant information about individual medicines, and especially at a time when we care about it, that means when we urgently withdraw some medicine from the market or because of its unwanted effects or some other malfunction. And finally, finally, for the first time, we will clearly define the criteria for putting medicines on the list, on the list of medicinal products of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. For many years, the process has been indistinguishable or as otherwise said transparent. Of course, this indiscretion allowed individuals to negotiate more often than negotiate more often. In this sense, we want to actually have clear criteria, clear criteria for how to form a list of medicines. And it is in this law that we create assumptions that, by practically adopting a separate rule on these standards, the issue is resolved. Here's what was in the shortest lines that this law actually passed. I want to make it clear in the end that this is really a big step for Croatia in the field of medicines and once again where Croatia can really compare with this law fully with highly developed countries of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90773	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the board presidents to have a lot of agenda points they haven't discussed at board meetings. I'm afraid we won't have very quick conditions to discuss certain points of the agenda, so I'm asking that in the morning or already, if they haven't called the committees, to discuss it. On behalf of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90774	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 75th session of the Committee held on 19 June 2007 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products with the Final Bill. The Committee discussed the law as a parent body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The members of the Committee supported this law, which, in addition to harmonising Croatian rules with European Union directives, also achieves a European level of quality in this extremely important segment of human health protection. Some of the laws that are new to the existing ones will contribute to ensuring effective, quality and safe medicines. First of all, it is pointed out in the debate on a provision that allows a medicinal product for the treatment of serious and rare diseases in the Republic of Croatia to be classified as a medicinal product authorised in the European Union for the treatment of severe and rare diseases in accordance with the conditions of the European Union. The debate also supports a solution that sets out the obligation to adopt rules for the determination of the price of the medicinal product and the criteria for placing the medicinal product on the list of medicinal products of the Croatian Obligatory Health Insurance Authority. This makes the product price criteria more transparent, as well as the conditions for listing mandatory health insurance products. In particular, the members of the Committee referred to the provision of Article 8 relating to the clinical trial of medicinal products and sought to clarify the limitations of clinical trials in children. Following a brief discussion, the members of the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Medicinal Products with regard to Article 8 and in Article 8 a new paragraph 2 of the clinical trial on children may only be carried out if an examination by adults cannot provide adequate results. The reason is that the proposed amendment makes it clearer to protect the children's rights as an extremely sensitive group. I note that it is contained in the law, but we think that given the children that at every level of debate on this problem we should stress it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90775	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90776	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a drug law, with the final bill of law, so the law is in an emergency procedure. The minister explained why it was important to discuss this bill today. He cited all the reasons why we were invited by the ministry to create a special drug law, because how much you know about the 2004 amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Products. However, due to the various perceived shortcomings, and to the harmonisation of the laws of the European Union that regulate medicines, a special drug law is adopted, and a special Act on Medical Products is subsequently passed, and until then, the law applies to medical products. Therefore, the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which is still called, will also take care of medicines, and when there is a new law on medical products, by adopting a new Medical Products Act, the Agency will normally take care of medical products as well. The minister stressed some shortcomings in the old law and it is good that in these formulations and some inaccuracies will, in particular, be corrected on the records of intoxicating drugs. The good news in this law is that the outer packaging will allow the blind to recognize the medicine in the letter of Braille. Good things should be pointed out, that it is clear in the law that the regulation on the price of medicines will be the one that regulates the price of medicines in the country. That medicines for serious diseases are especially for children, which are registered in the European Union countries to be applied without a problem in Croatia. That the agency will be able to intervene if some medicine is out of use in the Republic of Croatia for three years, so it will be able to discuss it again and put it on the list. And what's very important is that it's much clearer and more precise and I'd say a more acute clinical trial of drugs. There is especially I would point out that institutions that will deal with drug testing will have to get a license from the minister. So the drug trial will only be able to be done in a licensed facility. The importance of the Central Ethics Commission for the Study of Medicinal Products, as well as the ethical commissions in drug-examination institutions, is strongly expressed. The Committee on Health has made an amendment, an amendment to Article 8 where, in fact, it would be even more precise and clearer to address the issue of drug trials on children, which I think is good and that is also the HDZ club's support. In this law I would say we read it that it is written very clearly which is one news in our approach to writing the law. So this law is clearly written. He can be understood not by an expert and a doctor and a lawyer, but by this Law he is very readable and is very clear and easy to understand. They are well in the definition of terms in the law very extensively and in detail all concepts related to medicinal products are well explained, especially the placing on the market where it is specified that the new medicinal product is given to the Agency when a request for release is made for 7 months, i.e. 210 days, that within that deadline the agency must be manifested. He was well aware of what the production of medicines means, the labelling of the instructions, we already said that on the outer packaging of the instructions and overlooked for the blind persons, the classification of medicines is allocated to prescription medicines and medicines that go without a prescription, the transport of medicines is specifically processed and I would have only one remark, it is a little unclear in Articles 55 and 7 concerning infusion solutions and if this is defined as being medicinal products, so it could be interpreted as already regulated, but it might be good somewhere to indicate that infusion solutions can also be distributed to institutions, and it turns out that only the Croatian Agency for Transfusion and Medicine could do so. ♪ So there might be some precision and clarification. The big chapter is also about side effects, so on the pharmaco and the balance sheet, which is very important for adverse drug reactions to be prompted and reported to the agency, which will immediately withdraw and withdraw, if necessary, medicines that have a harmful effect. In the supply of the market, the minister himself said that it was guaranteed and what is most important is that the minister also stressed the open, it is constantly supplementing the new medicines, and what is good is that surveillance is specially processed, so pharmaceutical inspectors who will go from the agency and visit both those who produce the medicine and those who traffic drugs and both in wholesales and retail. So, the focus and main objective of this Law is to protect people's health, and I think this approach and this text maximumly achieves it, and it should be emphasized that the Agency for Medicinal Products gets these, I would say a particularly important role. It takes all the problems related to medicines from production to traffic practically on itself and it is a good thing to know clearly who is responsible and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90777	Thank you. Once again, I ask that the committees meet, report, if we agree at least until the vote that we have them registered, because otherwise I don't know how to do this is impossible. We have a lot of agenda points, the boards haven't discussed it. ... Oh, look. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That was said several times and what should be said. It is known that all points of the agenda must pass through the board. Well, that's not news now. Okay. We're moving on. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's Mrs. Wesna's turn. So we're not having an individual discussion. There's another club that came forward in the meantime. It's a HNS club, Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90778	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products, which will be supported by the Croatian People's Party club in any case, because we believe that order in the transport of medicines should be made and we support everything that our colleagues have pointed out. However, there is one thing that will continue to remain in drug trafficking, which is the issue of public procurement. Under this Act, a direct contract will eventually appear in the report of the State Audition because there is nothing about drug trafficking between state institutions and those who and drug dealers, there is nothing to mean about this drug trafficking and again Mr. Hebrang will speak here in the Assembly that the direct agreement on the procurement of medicines is better than public procurement, and Mrs. Šima Krasic will continue to say that this Law is no exception to the Public Procurement Act. So I ask the minister how he thinks it will be settled so that, once the State Audit finds out again, we don't have any such questions whether it should have been done under the Public Procurement Act or not. We know that the law is above this law, we'll still have these problems, and that's why I'm asking that part to be regulated so that we don't repeat the same story every year. It is also wonderfully written in the law, but we know that in practice it works completely differently, and we know that the pharmaceutical industry negotiates drug prices with each other, and that they come up with one price that is at the expense of the users and at the expense of the budget, means to the harm of the patient and to the harm of the budget, and they simply sit down, agree the minimum price and go to the pharmacists, and also to hospitals and to all those who take medicines, buy. As far as our situation is concerned, in which we're selling Pliva, we're in a position to send letters from day to day that some drugs can't produce and that they won't be able to produce them this year, and maybe they won't be able to produce them either for years or for next year. That's why we had what we had, so we had "Ply," we sold it, and now we've automatically raised and priced the drugs, because we just don't have one of our own drug factories anymore. That is why I support all these amendments that are within the law and especially that marking for the blind and the impaired persons, but I believe that in any case, the law should regulate this issue of public procurement. And I would ask the minister to immediately answer me how that traffic will go so I don't repeat it, to come back into the situation that in the end we have to say that 2 million and 400 or 3 million and 400, 3 billion and 400 million, spent contrary to the Public Procurement Act. Here, I'd ask the minister to answer that, but we're going to support this anyway, and I'd like to know how he's going to handle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90779	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Ms. Vesna Skara Ozbolt. She's gone, so she's losing her right to argue. And Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90780	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! In fact, I have volunteered to commend the bill and to appeal once again to Minister Ljubicic to support me in trying to free this House from smokers. There are, Mr. Minister, I must warn you of good will by the President of the Parliament and by a whole series of colleagues. However, I smell one obstruction that is happening within your government, so I ask you to convey my warm greetings to the Prime Minister's exemplaryness and to expect that this proposal is manifest within 15 days, because it is unbearable what is happening in the Ministry or in the Croatian Parliament. The better situation is neither in your ministry, unfortunately nor at the School of National Health. Therefore, all institutions that need to care for the health of the people do not want people to know that smoking is the main cause of the Croatian people's accident. As far as the law itself is concerned, there was a colleague, Kapraljevic, who said something about "Ply." It is a great accident that all the monopoly systems of Croatia have been sold to foreigners and that they are still losers of Croatian national property. So, one of the biggest strategic mistakes to all governments was that big monopoly producers were sold, so from telecommunications, banks, we still have part of the sovereignty of happiness in insurance companies, but the sale of Pliva and the sale of a strategic package at the time of Ivica Racan's government was the first step towards disaster. I remind you it happened because of a break-in like you know the debts. In a situation where Croatia has no pharmaceutical or pharmaceutical sovereignty, the only possibility of influence is regulation. And in that sense, it is good that one pro-European law has been passed. There are several practical remarks that should be considered in the law. The section on advertising and information on medicinal products, page 52, should provide more specifically for the prohibitions of information and advertising on quasi medicines and dangerous substances that are publicly promoted as medicinal products. On Croatian national television, a type has already appeared on several occasions, claiming that it treats all kinds of cancers based on the remains of rocket fuel. I didn't see anyone react, neither did you personally. And this guy shows up every three, four days. When he shows up in "Working Lunch" or in other shows, television cannot be defended from calls, emails and text messages from various unfortunate people suffering from advanced cancer stages. Also, it would be good for a respected colleague, Marko Turic, to use his authority to regulate it legally, and in a practical sense, to apply zero tolerance practice in relation to the appearance of such types. You remember that almost in the 1960s and 1970s it became almost some implicit legitimacy that people claim that they can treat cancers based on I don't know, urine, oil, megamines and various other products. So that's one serious thing to do about it. The problem of public procurement and the problem of the list of medicines has already been mentioned. He would say nothing more about this than supporting the action, the anti-corruption action of our country's summit, pointed out that in these areas and when it comes to the list of medicines and when it comes to public procurement, there should be a maximum degree of room for all possible abuses of the benefit of different forms of people involved in drug approval and public procurement operations. Finally, I think we should say a little more about the development of a pharmacotherapy culture in Croatia. He's a great Britain, I think he was doing... It's been doing a research on domestic pharmacies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They found that people in the pharmacy have about 40% unpacked drugs. I think the situation in Croatia today is about that level. And in this sense, culture should be developed I don't know how to regulate public information for people and the development of pharmacotherapeutic culture, because the medicalisation of certain human conditions is the easiest approach. I'll remind you, the other day I was talking to Peter Selem about the phenomenon of the Temistokles. And post-traumatic stress disorder in Croatia. Themistokles was the famous Athenian army leader who beat the Persians by claiming that when you lose war on land, war should be transferred to the sea. He was a fantastic speaker. He had absolute memory. He's had one obsession his whole life, not that he can remember something, but that he can forget something. And what he wanted to forget was clearly that he was involved in bloody wars and suffered undisputed post-traumatic stress disorder. The Athenians paid him back just like we did Anti Gotovina by banishing him from Athens and taking him away, confiscating all the property. Banished him into Persia. In his old age, he was still so smart that he learned Persian and taught the Persians how to develop good neighbourly relations. If Demistokle had lived with us today and had strayed from our psychiatrists, they would have loaded him with different cabinets of different psychopharmacs and not treated him adequately. So I think about the culture of prescription drugs, the relationship to the medicine especially when it comes to everyday life problems and also post-traumatic problems most of the Croatian people suffer from, and not just warriors, I think we should use this lesson about Demistokle that we can talk about with coffee Peter Selem and me so it doesn't happen. And another small thing is about Croatian pharmaco, production wealth or diversity. Since ancient times or through a system of production of traditional medicines or medicines in the modern sense of words or different immunological products or Sumameda contributed a significant pharmaco to the therapeutic wealth of the world. And in this sense, perhaps in a particular article, it should in some way protect the idea of Croatian contributions to the production of medicines in the world so that this part of collective memory would not be lost and so that others themselves know that we have done something in this area from different traditional pharmacists in Dubrovnik or in Makarska or in Sibenik, Zadar, Osijek or Zagreb to modern drug production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90781	Thank you very much. We have a replica of a few. Mr. Stjepan Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90782	I would agree with my colleague Letica when he noted the importance of this advertising of quasi medications or quasi doctors and various health providers. Especially through the media, these TVs and so on. But also in written media, and in any case, it should be more severe to sanction it because it's the deception of people. I'd also agree when he said about these house supplies. When we talk about drug consumption, the figure on the annual level is just prescription drugs of about 3 billion, right? And then it was found that almost one third of it was not spent. And in fact, there's no need for any discrimination. I think that is why it is important for the agency to get a job done by the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Ministry of Drug Control because it has a record of what it has registered and will then be easier and will control not only prescription drugs but all those who go on the market. And you kind of see one feedback effect. And that's why I think it's good that the Agency is also doing control under the new law, consumer control. The question of the regulation on the price of medicines. That's what my colleague Kapraljevic said. We're actually always getting into that public procurement problem. We talked for the last time. The reference to the revision is that it was outside actually the Public Procurement Act, but the regulation essentially reached a lower price. Achieved, definitely lower priced because all producers and bidders were asked to lower below the reference price by 10%. That must be discussed more seriously because we need to find a model to get as cheap a drug as possible and still have all the drugs. I think the minister will explain that part in his address. He's very important that we don't turn out to be breaking the law. We're doing good. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90783	Thank you. The answer is Mr. Slavic Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90784	Of course, I didn't want to blame either the Ministry or anyone in relation to the abuse of public promotion of dangerous substances under a drug company. I don't even know how this can be solved in Croatia. I don't want to, I don't want to promote any newspapers. Here in today's paper you have, for example, and that's a regular case every day that you have a whole page of pedophile and various other calls means where little children who have cell phones sort of refer to them as calling, spending huge money and damage to family and their own health. In Croatia, there is no effective system to prevent any type of activity. At the same time, public attention focuses on ephemeral problems for individual cases. So I was just trying to distract Mr. Bacic. I don't have a solution for how something can be done in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90785	Thank you. Replica of Mrs. Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90786	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Letica, although his colleague Bačić has already looked around home medicine, since you have been taking examples from... I would also say that in 1768 Tison said that the secret to maintaining health is to prolong the life span or to experience a deep age is in the wisely chosen rules of life and health, not in medicines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here we are, and normally in those important situations, medicines are especially needed when it comes to rare diseases and medicines, so it is safe to point out again that 200 million kuna has been allocated in the State budget this year. We were a situation in the last few years when it was in the hospital's budget, and then it was a pain in the ass that those drugs were gone, and that's probably why it's a good solution. When it comes to these home supplies, we really need to do it more in information, informing our population. And I find myself in a situation where I see something with a commercial and then I buy it, and I think it'll help me with some harmless condition and then when I read all those so-called warnings that they write there, I leave that medicine open. So in this culture of regulation and information culture, we certainly need to do more and today our patients actually come for something if they don't get the cure and if they haven't been with the doctor and they haven't got any use to think of it, and yet it's precisely the purpose of having him educated and informed enough, and that if he can do anything without the medication to do so, then he's trying to save and improve his health with other methods. So certainly here we support all these actions where, which would be in terms of better information, education and actually encouraging us to preserve our own and improve our health, and we take medicines when it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90787	Thank you. The answer is Mr. Slavic Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90788	My colleague Lelic noticed very well because it is every day in practice that people watch TV at night and tomorrow appear in the offices not only wants to get any medicine, but wants to get a specific medicine or something they experience as a medicine. And in that sense, the ban on advertising drugs is one axiom in all the countries that are in the European Union. So these are very rigorous systems. As far as domestic pharmacies are concerned, some ad hoc research should be carried out in this area. I think that the School of National Health is an institution that is not, it's a little disoriented, but it could be much more used and there's both knowledge and enthusiasm that it's used as an educational institution in relation to culture, meaning use, storage, so if you want to destroy medicines. Because we don't even know what's going on with those drugs from the pharmacy. They are generally all toxic substances and can cause great harm not only to people and families but also to the natural environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90789	Thank you. Another replica. Mr. Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90790	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The distinguished representative Professor Letica looked back in his presentation and presented quite nicely the situation we are in today. I would just say like my predecessors about advertising drugs so it was through television channels, "Closed", "Open", "Eatless", "Without lunch", "Life Live in Live", and the written media that is read and simply people when they meet and shake hands over their ordinaries with dangerous illness then there's no thing where they won't go. Unfortunately, this experience, I speak from near conventional therapy, regardless of what our ministry is even in this law, but even before that all expensive medicines known in Europe and in the world would say put on the list, secure resources, professional people prescribe it, and simply they are, they are simply offered to our people, patients who suffer from these diseases. Yet again, I know from close proximity that people are coming looking for this, whether it bothers you, doesn't bother you, etc. And the only thing that gets answers doesn't seem to bother you, like a primm nono cere doesn't hurt, and anything that doesn't hurt like it can be taken. But this is about other big things. It's like it's expensive here. And secondly, to make it easier for a patient to accept it than he's told at the hospital. Then he practically loses some time precious that the disease can be contained, so he doesn't need to be turned from stage to stage to stage, bigger, etc. According to this here, I see the value of this story of yours that it's actually dragging this behind itself almost and responsibility. Therefore, I would pray that well this law, this law is by my judgment we have heard already very high-quality, very good and you see yourself out of this exhibit and now in this House that you really...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90791	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90792	...that's what it's all about, and that's what it's all about, and that's what it's about, and that's what it's about, and that's what it's about, and that's what it's all about, to our patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90793	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90794	As far as I can see, the mistakes of this type don't happen in specialized Croatian TV shows, where people who know something about it work, I don't know, Helga Vlahovic or Patricia Levak, but in general-type shows. And in that sense, these people should be educated. However, the basic problem of Croatian television is today needy and inconsistencies. The other day, you watched a show where Mislav Bago told the guests, "Now I've had enough of you. Enough. Stop it." So he's got a baseball bat and he'll start beating on guests. Here's one of those people you can't expect to understand what's going on, and that's very subtle stuff.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90795	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90796	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here, let me get involved in the discussion of the final proposal of the Drug Act. So I support this Law, I support Article 1 which therefore speaks about the aim of this Law to primarily regulate the market for medicines here in Croatia. I agree, therefore, with all those who have said that this market must be harmonised in Croatia, i.e. that it must first and foremost be focused on improving the health of our citizens. Unfortunately, to a large extent, as well as in the world of production, placement, drug promotion is becoming more and more big business, and therefore it is losing the essence of the drug policy. Therefore, world-level drugs producers themselves warn at global levels that the drug industry must reroute more resources from marketing to research. Today, we almost have a similar situation in which a drug sells a brand, so a manufacturer or a name, not perhaps the quality of the medicine. Well, so do we, for example. The data suggests the perspective that global revenues from drug sales will be doubled to a thousand and 300 billion dollars by 2020. So on a global level, it's a huge business. The reason for the major growth in drug sales, according to the International Consultant Company "PVC" in its report, besides ageing the population and the growing number of overweight persons, is therefore again resolved only with drugs or primarily medicines that are not good, and the rise in demand in growing markets, in Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Russia and Turkey. These are fast-growing markets, hence transition markets in which it is easy to develop and develop consumer mentality, therefore not only for simple confection but also for medicines. In these 7 countries, as reported in the report by 2020, there will be as much as 1/5 total revenues from drug sales, a significant leap from only 8% of the share in 2004. The position of the second or third largest drug market is likely to take China. Such forecasts are not surprising, given that China is one of the fastest growing Western medicine markets that made 12.3% of its turnover last year, i.e. $13.4 billion after 20% of last year, etc. Something similar is happening in Croatia. Given the amount of health indifference that makes suppliers wait for HZZO to pay for medicines for up to 360 days, it seems that the sale of medicines to Croatia is not a particularly profitable business, but the reality is different. According to data from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute in 2005, prescription drugs worth 2.8 billion kuna were issued. But the ones without a prescription, they speak last. The latest report on the transport of finished medicinal products of the Medicines Agency has been spent on more than 227 million kuna. At the same time, patients used 754 million kuna drugs. The sum of this means that the annual consumption of finished drugs according to HZZO and ALM reports... About 3.8 billion kuna. [[You don't understand.]] However, the total turnover of pharmaceuticals in 2005 reached 4.7 billion kuna, which speaks of a very attractive market for domestic and foreign producers. The most sold medicines 916 million kunas on the Croatian market still have "Piva" despite what we heard today, followed by "Belupo", "Krka", "Fizer", "Merks" and some other companies. According to the Agency for Medicinal Products, Croatia is in the use of medicines among European records, because according to statistics, over 650 people take one dose a day. Single consumption of medicines dominated by those for the cardiovascular and nervous system and for the treatment of infections causes enormous pressure on the state budget, except that it generates intolerable costs of in liquidity, fatal and for the health of the population. Namely, the non-critical prescription of medicines, such as the administration of penicillin for the most banal sore throat that has a long tradition in Croatian offices, is caused by intense bacterial resistance, i.e. the failure of a large spectrum of massively applied antibiotics, doctors warn. Supposedly nowhere in Europe or in the world, it is not as easy to get an antibiotic on the recipe for the most banal sore throat as it is in Croatian homes of health. When I was talking about this law, I think he needs to sort out some of the things that appear in that system. Unfortunately, the drug market is becoming more and more business, so the aggressive drug manufacturer's game is most visible in primary health care. It is quite common that in waiting rooms doctors’ general practice offices patients meet agents of pharmaceutical companies who lobby for the sale of medicines to their employers. They confirm that patients, enter the office without knocking, do not wait for the medicine, take away a doctor half an hour or more of working hours. Those in the waiting room do not have any choice but to wait patiently for the completion of the promotional presentation of the intrusive pharmaceutical agent. We think, therefore, that we must also go in this direction to introduce order. I've already said that the current system is pretty messy, here's a few days ago, and I'm also familiar with one case. I was approached by a gentleman from Međimurje, so from Ivanovec. He suffers from lung cancer and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute rejected his request for the award of Xelod to a prescription by the selected primary health care doctor and on his recommendation. One box of this medicine containing 12 tablets costs 3,000 kuna. The gentleman in question has a pension, lives with his wife, has 2,000 and 200 kuna. Interestingly, this "Xelod" medicine can also be prescribed to a prescription without payment for other cancers, e.g. carcinoma of the colon or breast. The decision was given to the gentleman in 28.2.2007, immediately after that on 7 March 2007, he wrote an appeal subject to a solution and has not received any response to this day. So the man has cancer, and to this day he's got no answer. Treatment is done in different ways to provide the medicine. Well, what's interesting about that now? We've secured one donation for this man. A few days after that, a lady came to this man with a few boxes of the same medicine she didn't spend, but unfortunately, in a few days, the medicine expired so that it couldn't be used. So, in this direction, we need to implement this law, so that the drugs are primarily directed to those who need them most, especially for severe cancer diseases, etc. to be free of charge and to comply with medicines being spent under medical care rather than being used and we know what the price of the medicine is and how much we all spend on medicines in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90797	Thank you very much. We have a replica, Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90798	Thank you very much. I expected that this law would solve one problem, which would result in your basic request, that medicines that are more expensive in Croatia than they are normal, especially those better in the function of the sick. However, this law does not solve a problem in any way how to resolve the supply of medicines and the disposal of unnecessary medicines due to discontinuation of therapy, it is no longer necessary simply and in our home pharmacies citizens have at their disposal a huge amount of money. I would say this billions of kunas of medicines that at some point become an ecological problem, because the only way to get rid of it is to throw it in a garbage bag or bin and end up in a dump. One poor Switzerland, for example, Sweden, Finland, has for years had a system and a model for patients to return unused medicines or to a doctor who has ordered it, prescribed or pharmacist's service, and for that purpose receive stamps, stamps, which result in the release of the medicinal product on the other hand. I was already talking about it, and then the minister nodded his head as well as now, and I expected that such a proposal would be in this bill, he's gone. So if this is not too much of a problem for the system, the administrative system of health think again about stimulating citizens valid, and return unused medicines to the system of major savings and environmental protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90799	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Representative Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90800	That's right, I agree with you, just to support the need to introduce medicines and a specific case of an enormously expensive drug, and I also have to imagine and repeat the fact that drug trafficking by pharmaceutical companies, that drug trafficking has reached 4.7 billion kuna in 2005, and a large part of these medicines have remained either unused or thrown away, so I think we should take good care of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90801	Replica, Mr. Representative Stephen Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90802	Thank you very much. So I agree with my colleague Pavlica when he mentioned this phenomenon that is not only in Croatia, but also in the world. The pharmaceutical industry and everyone who deals with this business are doing a terrible aggression normally on consumption. It is the task of all national health systems to take from it what the people need, but in fact no one in the world can effectively resist this unnecessary prescription of medicines. In Croatia, the use of medicines for our concepts is great, for our opportunities. However, statistics say that the actual consumption of medicines per capita in Croatia falls below the global and European average. As for antibiotics they were once a problem in Croatia, they were first. They're in sixth place now, unfortunately some other psychopharmacists are leading what I think is actually not good. And when you were talking about this that the cure should be determined for whoever really needs it, you set an individual example, it always happens. However, this is not the system's fault. Our regulations and laws accurately define a group of medicines for all diseases and determine how and what indications they are given. Therefore, it is always possible that some like this I would say individually let's call injustices, but the list of medicines, the basic list of medicines is wide, everyone can have it, and especially expensive medicines especially for these patients with malignant diseases is also extensive and indications maximum I would say extended. If that were the case in this year's list of particularly expensive medicines has already been badly spent, we have predicted 200 million, and now 118 to this day has already been spent, so it will be very difficult by the end of the year to get away with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90803	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90804	In any case, it is necessary to tighten and clarify the criteria for medicines that are expensive and which are... Diagnosis and must be ensured. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90805	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90806	Here, that's all you've been saying is actually talking about the need for harmonisation and regulations and laws, not just this law to perfect this whole system, but for example. What I was saying individually is a specific medicine called Xeloth, which according to the list is therefore used to treat breast and colon cancers. At the recommendation of the doctor and consilium, i.e. They recommended that Xeloth be used individually in this person because they thought that it might help. Unfortunately, he received a refusal from the Croatian Institute, filed a complaint on 7.3.2007, and there is no response to these complaints, and the disease continues to develop. Now, that's the question of the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90807	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90808	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I did on my own personal behalf because I didn't want to mention some things on behalf of the club, and that's the first question when doctors sell their professions to pharmacists for prescription drugs. Not a word of it here in the law, not a word of it will be regulated. We can hide and close our eyes that such things don't happen, but certain medicines have a price from the nick to Mercedes A class. Many doctors sell their professions, not many, I apologize, not many, but some doctors sell their professions, prescribe drugs just because someone gives them money for it. If these drugs are ever used, if anyone ever takes them, I don't know, but I know they're leaving the pharmacy. There is nothing here, there is no way to sanction pharmacists, so pharmaceutical companies that are thus stimulating doctors to increase the consumption of their medicines and to condition how many medicines should be prescribed to get some counterservices. It's corruption to me, and if we're fighting corruption, then we have to fight corruption in all segments, so stop corruption here too. There's not a word about that. The other thing I'd like to do, I didn't want to answer the replicas, but I'd like to point out once again, because you haven't answered me anything, it's a question of 3 billion and 400 million kunas that each year, and every year it's going to be more or more of the same thing for the purchase of medicines that are obtained without competitions, which are purchased contrary to the Public Procurement Act. A colleague of Bačić shows this is regulated by the rules. Well, that can't be regulated by the rules. There's a law on public procurement that we either adhere to or don't adhere to. If we don't stick to it, I can always suspect that it's a matter of corruption, because if something is being negotiated directly, we've seen how things are now immediately negotiated, where 5% is for one, and how many are in the chain. And if in the same way 3 billion and 400 million we go 5% you know how much money that is. My colleague Hebrang used to count here what could be done with a thousand dollars a head, how many people could be cured. And how much money is this if only that 5% stops. And there's one more thing I'd like to point out, and that's the question of home supplies and what my colleague Lesar and my colleague Pavlic were talking about. And I'd say you predicted an article, article 70, that regulates it. Because it regulates in this way. Medicinal products that are no longer for use are taken care of by the owner. So, there's not a word about getting the drugs back, there's not a word about ecology, because some of the drugs when their expiry date is up are poisons. And throwing these drugs poses a danger to both children and all those who find it. There's nowhere to go. Because if it's on my soul and I have to take care of what I have in the pharmacy, there's no control of what I'm gonna do with it. And if I don't say that these pharmacyes are really big, a lot of people collect drugs, we know that there are hypochondriacs that enjoy inventing diseases and collecting medicines and switching from therapy to therapy. And that's why we should in some way commit those who took the drugs, not use them to return them in some way, not to keep them in the house and eventually not to know what they're going to do and to make them, so if they're stimulated, if we can stimulate the return of the bottle with 50 limes, then we can also stimulate the return of the drugs in any way. We can come up with some kind of way to stimulate citizens not to throw drugs around. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90809	Thank you very much. We have three replicas and one correction. Mr. Zeljko Pavlic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90810	The Honorable Mr. Representative spoke of an aggressive competition which I also pointed out. So our doctors are under constant pressure from different agents who impose their products as the only possible, so in treating patients. Lead pharmaceutical companies organise international conventions and professional trips for pharmacists on their cost and some manufacturers reward offices or doctors with specific gifts for a number of recipes, etc. Is it corruption now, is it or isn't it supposed to answer that? That is the answer to seek in this law. Unfortunately, he doesn't have any concrete... What it says in the Regulation on how to advertise and notify medicines is mentioned there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that rulebook exists. The professional associates of pharmaceutical companies are allowed exclusively scientificly justified drug promotion, and it is prohibited to encourage healthcare professionals to prescribe, purchase, recommend or buy medicines, reward in money, give gifts or enable any other property benefit by promising some privilege or reward. That's what the rule book says. And I think it would be very good to write in this law too, because then it would get heavy. I mean, then, the next thing you know, if you respect certain sanctions. Then I think the situation would improve in that sense. Because what can happen? It may occur that a doctor prescribes a medicine that is less effective, perhaps because it has received some incentive, a stronger boost on the side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90811	Thank you. Mr. Kapraljevic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90812	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Pavlic, I thank you for all this stuff you've added, and you've also opened up the possibility of me asking the minister. We, when we adopted the National Anti-Corruption Programme, were then defined in that programme that each area meant, health care, the judiciary all had to come up with operational plans. So I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, did you bring in your segment of operational plan to contain this part of the corruption we were just talking about? So he's selling the professions for a particular type of service. Counterservice.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90813	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kapraljevic, you have now reminded me of a problem we have recently discussed in this House. Namely, when we discussed the State Audit Report of the Minister of Health, there was no, so I use it, present because it wasn't even his point, I use his presence here now, and I remind you. The procedure for the procurement of medicinal products according to the Office of State Audit should be carried out under the Public Procurement Act. Both the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Institute believe that they have the right to regulate their internal regulations the process of obtaining medicines. In the final statement of the State Auditor, it remained with its position that the Public Procurement Act should be respected. I then proposed on behalf of the club that an agreement be reached, or that the regulations governing that area be regulated by classes, changes and that it be absolutely clear whether it is the Public Procurement Act or some other regulation, so that we would no longer be in a situation where Parliament has to arbitration who is right and by which law both the Ministry and HZZO purchase medicines. About four, five months have passed, and no draft law on this topic has been received by counterpart Kapraljevic, and I fear the State Audit Office report will again conclude next year that the health care sector does not respect the Public Procurement Act. And there's a possibility. There's also time for someone to suggest that the law be approved.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90815	Thank you. Mr. Kapraljevic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90816	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the thing I opened up when I was speaking for the club and I always repeat that story. It's about 3 billion and 400 million. State auditor Mrs. Šima Krasic writes every time in her report that these medicines were obtained contrary to the Public Procurement Act. Mr. Hebrang comes out every time and says it's regulated by the rules, and based on that rule, a better price is achieved. So if that's the case, and if we assume there's no 5% or 10% in the purchase of those 3 billion and 400 million kunas, and if that's exactly what Mr. Hebrang says, then gentlemen, let's legalize that way. But let's not every year, according to the state's auditor's report, we find that 3 billion and 400 million were not obtained in accordance with the law. In fact, it wasn't spent in accordance with the law. And every year, the same story. Let's end this story, get it in sync, or we can turn the rule into law, so let's regulate it legally, or we can take it out of the control of state audits.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90817	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We have another replica of Mr. Stjepan Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90818	Yeah. It's actually about that rule again, and I said a little while ago that basically a lower price is being achieved because we refer to neighbouring countries and from that price, we're still asking for a medium price of 10%. So it's obvious that benefits and savings have been made. It is certain that this revision always declares that it is not in law with the Public Procurement Act. However, this is a problem that certainly needs to be looked at a little differently and the drugs are not the supply of bricks, concrete and so on where everything is clear, where everything is defined. We have 2500 types of drugs and the Ministry of Health is responsible for supplying the drugs safely. So the safety of supplying the drug market is, therefore, our citizens in the first place, and that's how it should be seen. And as for this problem of getting the old meds back, it seems very acceptable, okay. But there's another problem. The drug law clearly states how medicines should be kept. So the drugstores and the pharmacists have strict regulations under which conditions keep the medicine and then guarantee it. Once the medicine is in the home pharmacy in the drawer and it is unpacked, in fact, no one can guarantee that it will not cause any adverse effects. Because it's not adequately guarded. Thus, it would be very dangerous to withdraw such medicines in terms of savings. They would require in fact a special verification of what this law also predicted that each batch of new drugs is being tested and so on. That would practically accumulate the whole process and ask if it would be effective, wouldn't it? And it's not as simple as it looks.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90819	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that in 10 and 51 it's been 10 minutes. Mr. Kapraljevic, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90820	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm just gonna take this last piece. So you, uh, you have an idea that we recommend to the Swiss and let's say the Swedishs and the ones who solved it getting their meds back, so what's gonna mess with when the better option is to throw it out, throw it out the window or into the trash or something? My colleague Bacic, I think neither, the problem was, it must have been a problem to decide to take over the packaging. Take over five packagings or I don't know what it's called. So we started. And this is also a problem. Yeah, it's got to be a problem. And I know it's a problem from one moment to decide now we'll take it back. And they're open, they're not open, it doesn't matter. They're at the pharmacy and they're a potential danger. And as for the rule, I can't, I can't believe you're saying that's the traffic of something else. It's not the same as a brick, and then my colleague Marasovic says, "Even the bricks aren't all the same." That's right. Neither drugs nor bricks are the same. But public procurement is a law on public procurement. Public procurement is a public procurement. And the rule was never stronger than the law. Except in this case. And Mrs. Šima Krasic is just asking us to respect the law. And all the time we've been saying, "We're not gonna follow the law." And you claim it's cheaper. It might be. Yeah, maybe it is, and what if it isn't? Has there ever been a contest to see whether or not it was? I'm supposed to take your word for it. I don't think so. Because the mass of things where I've seen agreements always achieve a higher price, not a lower price.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90821	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the representative of Ms. Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90822	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in his presentation, my colleague said that there was no return of drugs and that there was no need to take care of environmentals, which is not true. Which is not true. It exists in every pharmacy, so it has this significant place to put medicines that are not for use. There is a rule that regulates exactly how such a waste is taken care of later. It's dangerous waste and, truth be told, there's no incentive for it to come back. That might be one and it could be considered. So just stimulation, so far there's a place to put it off. There is an exact process of taking care of such hazardous waste and there are those who have a license to be able to, that they can mean to collect such waste and later burn it in specific places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90823	Thank you. Let's move on. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90824	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So after the 2003 Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Products was new, and this novel was in 2004, here we are now also discussing the final proposal for a drug law that has the same basic law and its novels. At least the basic code should have the protection of people's health. Therefore, it is true that this bill seeks to determine more precisely, to lay down more precise rules for testing, production, transport, quality checking, classification and monitoring of side effects, and advertising and information as well as in the assessment of the situation itself in this final proposal, and states. When the new Health Insurance Act was passed, of course, the public was upset by the list A and the list B. However, it was now shown that it was not really such a problem or caused any disturbances in its functioning. And that's good. But something that is happening now and at this point is something that has not been recorded in Croatian health history. Payment deadlines have already been extended to 270 days. State i.e. HZO and hospitals owe it to large-scale drugs. It thus threatens the danger that all of this that we want to streamline well into, and in, this final bill of law and the earlier new Health Insurance Act, so the protection of human health, the right to medicine as a fundamental human right, will be questioned. You don't need to run away from the fact that in addition to this debt that has hospitals and HZO that the system is currently artificially maintained. It's something that's alarming because and to what, and to such an answer this government should have given an answer long ago but it's never too late to prevent almost the disaster itself. So I repeat, 270 days is an unremembered default. Hospitals and HZZO owe 4, a total of 4 billion kuna. You can imagine what interest is on that amount. We'd spotlessly prevent the failure of the system from taking credit first to pay off those interest rates, and then we'd start paying back this debt. Because something that's inevitable is about to happen. There will be a shortage of drugs. Not because they're not in production, but because they're not paid. Big drugstores probably won't tolerate it anymore. To note that there are hospitals, it is probably the Ministry and the Minister himself and known that there are hospitals whose debt is due, or the payment deadline has not paid more than 5 hundred days. And that's something that worries, it's something that questions the functioning and application of this law. Our law is full of many rights, but whose realisation is most often questionable. So it's a thing that can't be ignored. Here colleagues highlighted the problem of old medicines and taking care of old medicines. It's a problem that's getting less and less trouble, because sometimes piling up drugs in the pharmacy is a thing of the past when the drugs were almost free and it wasn't taken care of. Today, we are threatened by the opposite dangers, drug shortages, and not some private pharmacy where individuals and families are hoarding their own pharmacy. First of all, it's not possible because of their expensiveness after all. I also want to draw attention to a major problem in Croatia, which is primarily not only a problem for women but also a problem for families. In these first articles that speak about general provisions, they speak exactly about what kinds of medicines are, what certain concepts of the medicine and certain derivatives and syntagmas in relation to the medicinal product in the law itself mean. However, Mr. Minister, they will not be remembered in your mandate that you have prevented the treatment of infertility in one of the most acceptable ways by donation of egg cells and donation of preparation. As our media reported, these banks are empty and instead of filling the legal gap with what made medical technology possible, which made it possible for science not to know for what reasons it is persistently refused to do, especially in the fact that Croatia remembers the 4th in Europe that has made such a request and we are the 4th country in Europe that has a child from the test tube. Our experts can do this, only they need to be given first of all and the material opportunities that have now dried up on that plan, but also legal frameworks to make all possible abuses because, of course, every right and good intentions can be let down. Legislative regulation is therefore also necessary. I note that we have prepared a good legislative proposal that at the beginning of the term of office, this government has referred to a parliamentary procedure such a law whose level of quality of the proposal has not been questioned. But he mysteriously disappeared from parliament and here he was before the end of his term never again. And during that time and for all that time, Mr. Minister, our wife spends and their families spend large, large amounts to prevent this operation and here, this way of infertility that is defined by the World Health Organization, and it is not possible for you to prevent them, or that this authority has made it impossible for them to do so. Therefore, there is still time, for if there is an observation that it is not done in time, it is necessary to see it, admit that error, and urgently fast the law in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90825	Thank you very much. We have two replicas and three corrections. The first is the replica of Mr. Zeljko Pavlica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90826	The Honorable representative spoke at first about the list of medicines, talked about list A, list B. I think that the list of medicines must be much more flexible than it is now, must be much more open to help individual patients. This law regulates Article 89 which only states that the Croatian Institute will adopt that list of medicinal products that are in conformity with the specific law and that the criterion for the assembly of medicinal products on the list referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article will be prescribed by the Minister. I think it was meant to expand so to open up the possibility of the list expanding, i.e. to intervene in certain cases where necessary. So I've already listed before that case of Mr. Ivanovec. He's got a solution. The solution therefore states, which told the competent medical committee that, according to the indication that Selot is used to treat patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Secondly, the first line of chemotherapy for metastatic colon cancer and for the diagnosis given is lung cancer, so the insurance is not intended to prescribe the medicine on the burden of the Croatian Health Insurance Authority. In its complaint, the patient writes that it is visible from the discharge letter of the County Hospital in Čakovec, Internal Medicine and Haematology that, given the history and diagnosis, treatment with Selot is recommended due to the high risk of continued chemotherapy. Everything would be fine if a man could buy it. And unfortunately, he can't buy it because he has a pension of 2 grand and 200 kuna. And yet on the other hand, his medical team who treated him at the hospital recommended this drug. So I think that the future list should be more flexible, not that we all hold to rules and laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90827	Thank you. Answer by Mrs. Anticevic Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90828	I think you're right. I was speaking generally of A and B list. However, in practice, really on that cheaper list to call it so Colloquial each had a more expensive drug causing such a long-term procedure that you especially stress that we can almost say that such a drug is then inadequate. Because the cure and the best medicine when it gets late is no cure. It's the same thing as justice that comes late is the greatest injustice. So are medicines that do not allow, or which the system does not make possible and accessible just when necessary. So here is the long-term waiting that requires a complicated procedure of each having a more expensive drug, essentially a citizen is inaccessible because I can wait a long time. So here's a chance to scout these ways, that you can't price the medicine if you're already on that accessibility list to justify the length of the procedure. It's clear to me that HZZO is guarding its funds, but above all, it doesn't have to show certain mistrust to sick citizens, though.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90829	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90830	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague you pointed to another possible point of corruption, and that's the question of payment. As soon as the state doesn't pay in time and when it can choose who it will pay, whom it won't pay, whom it will not and when it will do in that situation, in any case, some become dependent on the state, and then there is the possibility that it can be resolved by bribes to get to the place before the debt settles, and then it's not just a problem, but in that way the small ones fail, and the bigger ones become even bigger, and that's a good question that you've raised and a 270-day delay in any case I'm not talking about the top, we're talking about those in the second row or third row, which in any case some kind of interventions, let's remember some drivers, they can afford to make payments in time. And besides that issue of public procurement with my colleague Bačić, I've already discussed it in replicas, but here I am waiting for Mr. Minister to come out and say something about it. But seeing as he has no intention of showing himself then I would ask him to go in, order his services to take out the first law reading we discussed yesterday, that is. Public procurement law, P.Z.E. 694 and to try to install drugs in that law to be exempt from the law because I would not want it to continue to be regulated by the rule but to get rid of the law that we do not have to listen every year to the purchase of drugs made contrary to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90831	The minister intends to look back later on. Answer, Ms. Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90832	Well, yes, I think in my debate, when I highlighted this issue of non-payment longevity and that 270-day deadline that has not been recorded so far, and I repeat some hospitals have extended that payment period to 500 days which is an alarming state, and this shows that the system is artificially maintained and that it can be broken at any moment and that the fundamental right of this law is then compromised. What we make laws if we see here that we have not achieved, or that we have ensured the regular functioning of the system and that is regular payment. An irregular payment, therefore, other than a threat to the right of a citizen to a drug guaranteed and sought to ensure this right, this law, will be questioned. This is one level of problem that is the biggest and most dangerous and most deadly for the safety of our citizens, the right to its health care, i.e. the right to the drug, the right to health and to allow it within the limits of its opportunities. And on the other hand, especially what you're apostrophe, so irregular payment. Not only will this cost the state dearly, but the side effects of such irregular payments are large both in health care and rightly apostrophe of this problem. So when the state has a large number of its creditors, it has a large number of creditors, then it is created by citizens and belief even that it is not so that it prefers one or another believer. Therefore, in all analyses and in all the basics of European countries, and even global ones in the fight against corruption, it is precisely this, to make it impossible for countries and authorities to meet their obligations regularly to exclude potential and maximum potential for corruption, i.e. I'll pay for this. I won't pay for this. I'm even saying that's not the case, it's causing people to be suspicious and skeptical.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90833	Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90834	Thank you very much. A statement that there has never been a payment of drugs and over 200 days is not true. Your colleagues during your government were paying for over 300 days. There will be a shortage of drugs. There's never been a shortage of drugs or anything. And the truth is, to citizens, it's an inaccessible cure. During your power np. The medicine for hepatitis C was inaccessible, available and not paid for.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90835	Second correction by the respected representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90836	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague put out a series of incorrect allegations, and when our viewers listen to this and our patients then they think we're really following the end of the world. She said that the system is artificially maintained, that it threatens to break the system, that it threatens to run out of drugs that are absolutely not true. Which is absolutely not true. The system functions even more stablely than it has worked and no shortages and breakdowns are threatened. I'd say this is about financial discipline and that's how it's supposed to be. And we know, I was the director during the last term, and I know that a lot of accounts and that there were also long periods of payments, but they were paid by cesiums, they were paid by loans, which are now reflected. But I believe that the government will find ways to reduce these deadlines without additional borrowing. But you'd also look back at that for the hospital system...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90837	Thank you very much. Third Amendment, Honored Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90838	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague actually spoke incorrectly all the time, because she wasn't discussing this law at all, she was talking about other things, and these inaccuracies had already been corrected by my predecessors. Therefore, payment deadlines are not the ones that threaten the system because payment deadlines of one year exist also in the European Union countries. So it doesn't matter. And she made another inaccuracy, she confused the total commitments with the achievements, so the commitments were a billion and 600, not 4 billion, as the lady said.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90839	Final review, Minister Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90840	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, a lot has been said today. I'll look back on maybe the most important things we've talked about, so maybe the most we've ever talked about. Let me begin by saying that the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health has given its amendment. I really accept it, I think it's great. Let me begin by saying that the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health has given its amendment. I really accept it, I think it's a great amendment. Also, the Croatian Democratic Community club has actually made several very high-quality proposals and they will be definitely incorporated into the law. Let me, of course, look back at what's been said here a few times, and that's about the drugs and the medicine back. Ladies and gentlemen, when the cure opens, when the box opens, it's medical waste. Medical waste was solved by the Waste Act, the Medical Waste Regulation, and when the box wasn't opened, so who's going to return the unopened box, so they're going to go back to the pharmacy and that same drug. It's funny stuff, and I don't think we should discuss it at all. These examples that individual parliamentary representatives, and I'm going to say clearly uninformed, are examples just tied to medical waste, because when a box opens up, when, for example, two, I'm going to give an example. The antibiotic medicine inside its vial has 15 capsules. Two vials of 30 capsules, an antibiotic is taken for 6 days. Average dose twice two, six times four, 24. So there's the rest of the medicine in the excess. This medicine is treated as medical waste. What these countries are doing is calling on citizens to take these medicines back to take care of themselves as a waste, as medical waste, as medicines, and not to go there to municipal waste, and that's what these countries are really doing. We're not going to the store to buy candy, eat half of it, and then go back to the single candy store. Well, you'll let it be one nonsens that definitely doesn't exist, and my message to those MPs to go on the face of measures with finally coming out into the world and to see it. The other thing I'd like to say is, of course, public procurement. A whole series of issues related to public procurement have been raised, and I will say very clearly, we are public procurement for medicines and we are implementing them, but if we were to implement the classic principle of public procurement, gentlemen of Parliament, then the pharmaceutical industry would be agreeing on the price, and when they agree on the price then Croatian taxpayers and all those who single out and contribute pay very much, and we do not want contractual relations, but we want contractual relations. So, what's been verified and exactly what closes the way to corruption, and that's why we've passed the rule that we said the price of medicines in Croatia will be formed in such a way that we'll take 3 countries in Europe that have the lowest price of medicines. For the original medicine in Croatia compared to these 3 countries, the price will be 10% lower, and for generic identical drugs will be 35% lower. Why? Because we want to have medicines for all citizens in Croatia today, we want to have no defects, we want a wide list of medicines, and of course we are not financially rich. That's how we managed to lower drug prices by 40%. Could others have done that? They could, but they didn't. Why? I'll leave it to you to try to answer that. Maybe they had individual interests. The second thing, when we bring down the price of course we do public procurement, we call a competition every year where they appear in that competition, but with a price already formed. Then we sort them into two lists. Those who are the cheapest go on the basic list, and those who are more expensive, and they had a chance to be the cheapest go on the supplemental list. So, of course, we refer to the price, which is rather than the Public Procurement Act. The other thing I'd also like to say and I agree, we had one flaw, and that's what we did with the price, the lowest price we put on the basic list that we didn't say in another sublegal act. Well, that's exactly what this law says, and that's the rule on the criteria for listing on the basic, or supplemental list. And one more thing, imagine if we were to go, so let's now let the free formation of prices by the pharmaceutical industry. Imagine if for every medicine in Croatia, and right now we have more than 3,000 preparations, for each medicine we have to conduct public procurement. And for example, we don't have a 2 somewhere. Public procurement is invalidated, we're going to go directly to the publication, because it's a procedure. So, by the end of the year, we wouldn't be able to count half the list of medicines, and that's why, and wanting to respect the Public Procurement Act, we have this principle that works and shows very good results. And why do I say it shows very good results? I'm going to show you a visual plate, and I don't want to politicize, but I have to say something because I just feel called today. Let's take a look at the drug use and look back a few years. Let us take 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006. So, the last five years. In 2002, total consumption, and we speak where the largest is, and these are prescription drugs. It was 2 billion and 170 million kuna. In 2003, this consumption increased by 25%, by 25%. I remind you, and I will tell Glivek, Mapera, Lantus, Betainteferon, Pegiliranteferon, none of these medicines in Croatia were available for our citizens, and 25% of the increase. What's that? Individuals? Are those the individuals who might have created something in there? Maybe they are. Let's remember the report on the 2003 review that was catastrophic. Let's move on. That trend of growth we managed to contain. In 2004, we manage to control as much as we can, the increase is 10.9%, round 11%. In 2005, the increase was 4.19%. And what about 2006? The increase was 3.85%, but we were dissatisfied with it as well. Why? Because I couldn't provide medication. Today we were talking about a list for those very rare and very severe diseases. These are terribly expensive drugs. Our children didn't get them, they didn't get them, they didn't get them, and many of you came to me, so with associations, with parents and children. So remember the Sanus Association in 2003 when mothers cried on the Split coast, asking for only one medicine for children with leukemia. Well, that's enough of that. Let's not politicize things. Let's let the waist finally lead. That doctors are treating sick people, not getting involved with some petty political connotations. One more thing. What we've done and I'm glad I heard the support and opposition parliamentary representatives and thank you. That means we're really going towards what we want, a consensus. Full consensus for something that's good, which is the support of two lists of drugs. Here's the data. In the first five months of this year, all total drug consumption, for the recipe, is one billion and 195 million kuna. In the first five months of last year, it was larger by 70 million kuna. So we were able to reduce the financial cost of prescription drugs. Well, normally consumption goes up. Well, people don't treat themselves with whiskey, and I don't know anything else. They're being treated with drugs. We have a lot of useful drugs today. Great meds. Some diseases are no longer treated with one medicine like 20 years ago. High pressure disease is today treated with at least two, three medicines that have different operating points. And normally the number of boxes goes up and goes up. But our goal is to fit in financially. An example. On average, the monthly average in 2007, so expenditure within one month for this year compared to last year is 8.55 lower. Well, we don't remember that happening. And that's the effect of two drug lists. For the first time in our financial consolidation, that's when we performed what we said. Financially consolidate, make the system more efficient and quality and enable it to develop freely. We're not the only ones testifying about this today. The international community, which is here, has recently declared healthcare and primary education as the two most competitive systems in Croatia. What you'd still like to look back on, and you'll allow me, a few things that may have stayed open. But before that, I would like to thank Agent Letica for truly giving an extremely significant piece of information. So the former government sold a strategic package of Plive shares. I'm very sorry, too, and I've heard a lot of people argue about how sorry they are. I'm sorry about that, too. Why? Not only may we also be sentimentalally bound to "Ply" as one of our old producers, but I really think it would actually be good in that sense if we actually had the "Ply" today as much as the largest actually producer in Croatia under certain control. What we were still discussing here is the very concept of traditional herbal medicine. I'd say a few words about it here. We're the first time we've ever introduced and defined it. These traditional herbal medicines are also subject to quality checks. But one of the most important things that he could register is that he has so-called. chronic safety test. What does that mean? That means when these preparations are long-term taken to do no harm. And they also go into the quality checking system, and they also meet a whole set of standards that exist. Of course, the difference between these preparations and preparations that in the narrow sense of words we call drugs is practically large. And so what we are absolutely allowing today to be traditional herbal drugs, such preparations are practically low doses of a certain substance, which have a safety test that can be advertised as such. But as you have always seen with that significant footnote, which is according to the recommendation of a doctor, an ordinarius or a pharmacist. And so this is a system that we practically want to develop further. What I'd just like to point out in the end and say, which is that there was also talk about alternative medicine here. I want to make it clear that we need to separate this alternative medicine from the traditional one. Acupuncture as a method is a traditional method, today accepted everywhere in the world. But the alternative approach to modern medicine today is unacceptable and that's two things we need to distinguish. That's two things we have to make up completely. And we, like we had enough power here, do all this together, so believe us, we'll also have enough power to pass the Law on Alternative and Traditional Medicine. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90841	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90842	Well, Mr. Secretary said that we were parliamentary representatives who participated in the debate uninformed. And he said that to an unacceptable, underestimating tone for us. From the debate itself, it was evident that we were very informed and that we knew what and how it was happening throughout that system. It was also said that we should go down, so base, get acquainted with the situation as it is. As far as I'm concerned, I've met my specific case so that I've visited the patient concerned, he's introduced me to his problem, so I've used it to introduce you to some things we need to improve. I hope that happens in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90843	Second correction by the respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90844	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you would have corrected the same assumption. Mr. Secretary says we're uninformed. Mrs. Šima Krasic informs us every year that public procurement of medicines or the purchase of medicines is contrary to the Public Procurement Act. You also concluded that the purchase of medicines under the rules is now legal. It's not. Correct it to be legal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90845	Third correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90846	Well, Mr. President, the Ministerial Praises on the State of Croatian Health would correct Mrs. Hillary Clinton's statement, which she said, speaking of the state of health in the United States that it is worse than the situation in Croatia and Albania.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90847	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Final proposal for a drug law. The amendments were implemented by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. Secretary of State Ante Golem. We are going to the amendments, to the amendment of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90849	Mr. President accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90850	Amendment accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendments to the Legislative Committee. So Amendment One?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90851	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90852	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 2nd?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90853	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90854	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Three?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90855	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90856	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 4th?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90857	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90858	It becomes a part of the law, a component. Five?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90859	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90860	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Six?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90861	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90862	It's an integral part of the law. Seven?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90863	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90864	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Eight?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90865	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90866	It's part of the Law. Nine?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90867	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90868	Same thing. 10?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90869	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90870	Same thing. 11th?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90871	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90872	Same thing. 12?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90873	The 12th Amendment cannot be accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90874	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90875	Retracted. 13th?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90876	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90877	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 14th?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90878	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90879	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 15?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90880	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90881	It's an integral part. 16?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90882	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90883	It's becoming an integral part. 17?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90884	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90885	Same thing. 18?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90886	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90887	It's an integral part. 19th?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90888	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90889	Same thing. 21?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90890	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90891	22?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90892	22. The government can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90893	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90894	22nd Amendment withdrawn. 23?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90895	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90896	It's an integral part of the law. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 83 for and one abstention, 3 against the Act of Medicinal Products adopted together with, in the text proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I give the following conclusion: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament shall be authorised to carry out the revision of the text of this Act before its publication in the National Journal. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 79 for, 7 abstentions of the proposed conclusion. We are going to the next item - Proposal for a National Programme of Measures to introduce mandatory secondary education Proposer, which is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of the National Programme. Minister of Science, Education and Sports Dragan Primorac will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90898	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Let me tell you about a few words about this project, which is indeed one of the most important projects that has happened in Croatia on the issue of education. Of course, the adoption of a strategic project where Croatia as a knowledge-based society should become a reality is a process and it requires a series of cultural, sociological, professional and financial support and we, of course, included the profession in the adoption of this strategic document. And this is the Institute of Social Sciences and the Institute of Public Finance which has made one full analysis on about 550 pages and which have shown the real state of Croatian education and those measures that are necessary for Croatian education to change as such. However, it is also important here to highlight a few key moments concerning Croatian education. To achieve the strategic goal of making the Croatian education system the most competitive of course was to establish and allow me the whole system according to those trends that the European Union wants and that was one of the reasons why Croatia has just closed two first chapters. It's education, culture and science, technology. But it was also meant to build one whole infrastructure. I'll just briefly tell you why this whole process took almost three years. He was supposed to complete two key moments. One is infrastructure, another is personnel and one is the third that always exists as software, which is the whole vertical of education in the new context of reform or change. Since the start of the mandate, we have established several key agencies. An agency that is important so that the entire vertical education can work. I'd like to point out a very important agency. It's the Professional Education Agency. I would point out restructuring, new employment at the Education and Education Agency. The establishment of an adult education agency, as well as the launch of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. A key body that actually speaks who is who in Croatian education. Of course, this was to be placed on the feet and the Curricula Council, the Pedagogical Standard Council, which should come with the final document in the ninth month. And of course there's about 15 different commissions that worked on this whole system somewhere. To this day, in order for this project to become a reality, it was necessary to work and make certain employment. Employment in the entire vertical of education, which is indirectly and directly related to the system of secondary education. Only in the high school system after this famous government employment ban regulation did we employ almost 800 people and thus we created the conditions that, with the new 156 jobs, which is somewhere financial about 6.2 million kunas enough for us to start this project first year. But I would also point out the key elements here that concern the increase in the budget with the rebalancing. We're talking about an incredible budget increase of nearly 3 billion in the last 3 and a half years of this government's mandate, which is unmarked if you look at the last 28 years. We must also point out that 253 school facilities have been built or built since the start of this government's mandate and that the World Bank's EIB credit and state budget have provided money for new 260 facilities. So to get to the starting position, Croatia will make up for all 50 years of gaps in education, we built 500 facilities to just lift that embarrassing third shift. And not to mention the other education problems we had at the beginning of the term of office. One of them is a billion kunas and almost 40,000 lawsuits, which is a complete block of the system, financially if you want and judicial. This program has its special value because it carries something new as a new Croatian brand. Let me tell you that only a few countries that are heading in this direction, we have made an effort to analyse Asian countries, European countries of course with European tradition but also the United States of America, Israel and India. Croatia today I hope that it will never again use that 2001 census, a shameful list which was actually very declarative and which was worrying. For me personally as a university teacher is unacceptable and I hope that he enters history after all these measures we've introduced. And he says this: in 2001, a million and 500 thousand people in the Republic of Croatia without acquired qualifications and a million and 700 thousand people with only finished high school. And the question arises who can lead Croatia into a knowledge society? After the founding of 5 universities, one university, investment, an increase in the budget by 48% in higher education, an increase in the number of students, a drop in... This number will be significantly corrected over the next two years in favour of those who are completing higher education and secondary education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So a million and 500 thousand Croatian citizens of the Republic of Croatia are currently without qualifications. So they are absolutely uncompetitive in the European labour market. And that's a question of wisdom where does the Croatian state go? If someone can give up a million and 500 thousand citizens, then it's a serious problem for both politics and for all of us. I therefore use this opportunity again to highlight what the Croatian government has repeatedly pointed out. And thank God for the great consensus of all of us, and that's Everybody at School. Education for everyone. And Croatia simply as a country with 4.6 million people has no chance of survival unless it mobilises all its resources and you see it through ours, our entire policy that I say again experiences the whole consensus in Croatian society. Allow me and just a few data that are very effective, that speak very concisely because as a scientist I want to speak to numbers that I would say much more strikingly. If you do an analysis in 2003, 2004, and look at the generation of the year 1986, 1987 and 1988, you get the information that 15.62% did not start or finish high school in the regular system. Dear friends, we're talking about the number of 9,000 and 200 people a year. It's a devastating piece of information. But it is also very clear by calculating democratic indicators over the next 10 years that Croatia will lose 80,000 students who will finish high school and who will never get a chance to enter the university. Again, the question arises, so why are these investments launched earlier, before us and now coming with us with almost a billion and 700 million kunas of construction of all Croatian universities. If you have a blockage in high school education. I have to tell you that information during my visit to America that to me, colleagues from America have said that this is a huge defeating data for a great America. With 350 million people, not for small Croatia. On the other hand, we spoke very clearly about 16 thousand and 160 unemployed people aged 15 to 19. Of course, in this population, it's those who have unfinished high school, partially completed high school but have completed high school. And of course there's a question of what they're doing on the bureau. They were either supposed to be in high school or they were supposed to get qualifications through three years of education or they were supposed to be in college. It is their place where they should be if we want to do from Croatia what is the only chance for Croatia to stay in these areas. Let me just tell you a few details for a couple of counties, again the numbers are very important. State Secretary, my assistant, has done an analysis with Ivo Pilar and with the Institute of Public Finance and established only for two counties, for Međimurska County, Sisak-Moslavina. The first county had 5 thousand and 175 students who finished eighth grade, and only 4000 and 136 who enrolled first grade high school. It is a 20% drop immediately at the beginning and it follows about another 10% that will not end. That's 30%. Numbered clear. Sucker-moslavina 7 grand and 291 and it also has a drop somewhere around 18%. I'll tell you one example, because I'm often in the field, an example of Kisting. An example of Kistanj where you actually suspect all those values that the Croatian Constitution points out about education and it is my special mission as minister to point to the problems of the Croatian Constitution. Is education equal to everything in the Republic of Croatia? I say no. Although it is pointed out very equally, it is very much accessible high school education for everyone. And listen to this data from Kistanj. 1/3 of the youngsters from Kistanj never enroll in high school. A difficult transport problem, they have to get up at 6:00 in the morning, but they're taking a working bus where there's no room for students. And then another 1/3 of those who enroll high school quit. So we're talking about 2/3 at the beginning of Kistanje where about 70% of students receive social assistance, and we're talking about the constitutional category that is equally accessible to everyone. What we're doing to the National Programme, Mr. President, since the first time we've done it to make the Constitution true and that the children get the right guaranteed by the Constitution. And that's the value of the National Programme, and that's why we're not going with the obligation right now. Because a commitment as a form if it can't be realized it loses its meaning. The key reasons for leaving regular education according to the Institute "Ivo Pilar" are reduced to 4 categories. First they're family, material, health problems. Others are unmotivating for teaching. Third, distance from high school. And fourth, bad programs or bad school success or unadjusted programs. Survey research at this point that was done at three different levels has covered two agencies and the Ivo Pilar Institute vary. But in principle they always tell you that somewhere around 78 to 82% of Croatian citizens support this project. In other words, we even did an analysis of Ivo Pilar about students and we came to the data that as many as 70.9% of students support this program, meaning direct participants of this process. And of course when there was a question of parents there was a problem because parents needed to interpret what it meant. In other words, it means more responsibility for parents. Because there isn't a minister, there's no government, and there's no Parliament that can replace a parenting role. Parents must have responsibility for the whole process and I was very pleasantly surprised that, a month ago, 84% of parents gave full support to the introduction of the National Programme. And it's actually one big truth, one big win. Let me tell you one information that is not contained in the National Programme that I said two hours ago at the evaluation, the evaluation of primary school education that took place in Croatia for the first time. Look at this information that's so devastating that it actually asks you what it's been all these years. The data says that children who have parents without qualifications or what once was called lower professional training or completed primary school only have 40% lower achievement in primary school than those who have completed high school without comparing myself with parents who have high professional training. So just because a child is born neither wrong nor due, only because of one major unconsciousness about the education or material conditions of their parents who couldn't do it 40% today, the results of "Ive Pilara" show that they have worse achievements at school. It's a classic discrimination against both parents and children. But if we go one step further, you know who your parents are. Those parents are a '67 generation. Until '64, my generation. So we're witnessing people who are now practically in the strongest power of 38 to 40 years. The national programme that introduces the gradual creation of conditions equal to all predicted very clearly some key elements. The first elements are the employment of teachers, professional associates, I said 791 total about 6.2 million kuna. Foresaw the schoolwork that we were talking about so intensely. I must also be grateful to my closest associates to ministers and prime ministers for giving me the opportunity to participate in such a major project of education in Croatia. You look today, actually the largest construction sites are building schools or Croatian campuses. And that's a great truth, which makes people happy from Split, Osijek, Zagreb and I would tell all the big places in Croatia, but also the small ones. Students' homes. For this year, a total of 3 000 and 500 seats are foreseen, and we envisioned the amount that we financially made very clear in the assessment of the financial impact that we did not fully show here but which is present at my place where we predicted about 50 million or 49 million 960 for this year, which fully cover all student homes, of course it will include part of the students, come out and enter new dorms that are being built and freed from the students. The 2007 textbooks concern all high school students who enroll in first grade high school. And, of course, it goes succesively and it grows every year, first and second, second, first, second, third and first, second, third and fourth. What is extremely important to say at this point is free transport. Free transport of requirements according to our calculations since 2007, since it's been about a few months somewhere around 25 million kuna, because at this point you have about 30% of passengers, or 16 thousand and 500 students. Just think of the examples of Kistanje and you will immediately understand what the problem is. I know that local self-government does the maximum. And it's not simple to even local self-government always cover those costs that are great, but simply that rhythm that she imposed I'd say this government is a rhythm where you have to compensate for all those empty years where education was on the absolute margins of society. I want to point out that information to you. No one here can actually feel hurt because none of us have created it in the last 50 years. But if at this point you have 253 schools, I want you to remember it, which are in the last phase or some are finished, and an extra 260 for which money is provided, so 500 schools are insufficient to move on to one shift. So what was the situation three, four years ago, five years ago? catastrophic, absolutely catastrophic. If 5 thousand and 300 jobs throughout the verticals are not enough to carry out HNOS, State Prom and the Bologna Process, then what was the situation five years ago. Five thousand and 300 people are employed and need about a thousand more. So education was on the absolute margins of Croatian society and that's one big truth to talk about. Of course, I will look back at a few more data that are extremely important, which is the employment of professional associates and today's results show that where expert associates worked that students' achievements are higher and that there are fewer and more violence in schools. Information. Information standards in today's high schools say that one computer in 14 high schools is better than the European average. We already have a certain number of smart records installed. I would like to point out that 600,000 e-mails are on the move and are very critical of those wrong moves that if you want to do both government and director and others, because the first time you have a student communication to say what they think publicly and openly and that's a problem for everyone, but the problem that we wanted to happen in a new open system of education. One of the data that shows how important the LCD project was is and 6 thousand employees who received certificates because it was a paradoxical situation that our students were leaving primary schools in fact that they were more informally written than their teachers and there you had to do some moves that were key. I want to highlight the very important role of our social partners who often spoke at the start of the government's mandate, listen we helped you with that big deal, a billion and 200 million kuna, we managed to agree on interest about 500 million kuna, we helped you save the education system from the complete financial collapse, and that's true. This was done by our social partners and on the other hand they participated in an increase in wages of 61% over the next five years and they have actually now been motivated to implement these very demanding I would say commitments because it is not easy in the next two or three years to make something known by a mandatory simple dictionary of obligations to obtain the first qualification. We know at this point that more than 90% of children will graduate from a three-year or four-year-old school. We also need to take care of a small percentage of children who, because of their abilities, need for the labour market will actually complete the process until the first qualification and this was one of the key remarks made by our friends from the European Union who asked to enter this vertical right up to the first qualification. What is extremely important and what I know is that the former government has tried to introduce, which we have introduced, which is an external evaluation of education. It is a real indicator of the situation in Croatian schools. I know that some people don't like the state of it, but there's a very fast situation that every parent has first to know what the state of the school his child is going to. Today we have data from primary schools, those children who will enter. The data is devastating, because they speak next. That the Croatian education system is uneven. Finland is first in terms of the education system because that school in the last village and in the best city has equal conditions. Therefore, the pedagogical standard that we bring and which will see the light of day after all years of promise in the 9th or 10th month when it comes to the assembly benches I ask you for maximum support, because it first defines very clear conditions in every school in the Republic of Croatia and it will be a commitment for the next four or five years, but this government has had the strength to do so and it is extremely important to say in this place. New curricula models have been developed, tailored programmes have been developed for individual needs of students. It is very important to say that the student is not only one subject, teaching must be directed towards the student as in Bologna facing the student. I know it requires more patience and more attention from teachers, but it's a new modern school to measure students. Working on the national curricula is going great. Pedagogical standard Mr. Prof. Dr. Pastulovic is doing great with his associates. Professor Vican's national curricula is doing great, and they're actually talking about two open documents. This government doesn't live in illusions. We don't think that one team can bring all the changes, all the documents have to be open for changes, for additions, the only way that the education system can go forward. I would now specify a few key documents or a few key thoughts that are impossible to say because I do not want to enter what you have ahead of you in the national programme. I'll try to say what Ivo Pilar said and what the Institute of Public Finance said in 550 pages. You can already see that this is an important different approach, it's an approach where politics doesn't define goals, but a profession that doesn't save a minister if it's necessary, but a profession that tells the truth. The next thing you know is that without the partner relationship between teachers, parents, ministries and all entities, our project will not be able to become a commitment in the next two or three years, but through the creation of the preconditions of financial we already believe that a year after the introduction we will be doing certain legal changes and according to some forecasts for two years the change in the Constitution so necessary and so simple if there are preconditions. I think the role of the local community is extremely important. The role of the local community has come to the local community's recognition today of education as an absolute priority in society. You can tell from all their deeds. Schools are built in every step, young people are no longer interested in working in small areas unless it's a quality school. She's moved a paradigm in education, and it's one of the great successes of the local community. The public private partnership has entered and has become reality. In our document we only presented a core and brief analysis of the needs of teachers in daily work and professional teacher training. They are shown by dynamics over the next year and I have pointed out that somewhere around 150 teachers are missing so that we, in part, already have these people hired it is 156 teachers and more or less the situation is very stable. It's very difficult to talk about the right to hire teachers. Unfortunately for demographic data, you have Lika where a school in one shift becomes a reality but not because of high standards, but because of demographic indicators. But on the other hand, you have the key cities of Zagreb, Split and Rijeka, which, after the construction of 72 buildings practically in the next two years, are abolishing three shifts or, as in Zagreb recently happened in a partner relationship where the government financed with 30 million kunas secured the transport of four schools and 7 schools afterwards began working in one shift in one City of Zagreb in a partner relationship between the city and the government. Let me tell you that teacher education is one of our priorities because all studies have shown that without the systematic education teachers will not be easy to implement this and we are willing to put other models next to the agency. There are also universities and all competent people who can very effectively lead teachers to go through the rapid evaluation process. I'm in capital by analysing capital funds over these two years, two years that are coming, and I want to point out to you from 2006, from 2004 to 2006, actually the exact number because there was often a question in the media, which are the objects that were built. They were built from the state budget from the ACEB which started earlier, and that is the total amount of HRK 1,137 billion, i.e. those 253 buildings. When we talked about 260 objects, I want to point out very clearly that the state budget leaves 90 million kuna or 26 objects, from the EIB two, a total of 161 objects and from the pooled budgets of the World Bank 73 buildings, a total of 260 objects or a billion and 640 million kuna. So, clearly in Croatian, I speak 2 billion and 700 million kuna for building objects since the start of this government's mandate with a projection over the next two years. Analyzing funds, decentralised funds intended to build buildings, which are capital investments through county and cities, is approximately invested around a billion kuna and state budget funds decentralised to invest around 715 schools. Dear friends, if you look at these 715 schools where it is invested in a different relationship, but it is invested systematically and these 500 schools then see that practically almost every school in the Republic of Croatia is invested in different funds. There was one question actually that bothers all of us. What to do with troubled students, those students in schools where no coercion and no obligation can lead to a final result. In a conversation with our social partners and with the Council of Students and teachers, we have actually come to a model that is very clear, which is also based on that model from primary schooling which is very clearly defined by the Family Law and the Law on Infringement Procedure and the role of parents, but we have also determined an increase in the number of professional associates and that is what we systematically do throughout this time, where professional associates play a key role in working with troubled children, but the role of parents is crucial. You can't give in to school and expect the school to be maximum. I want to see here the responsibility of parents, the responsibility of teachers, if you want the minister's responsibility in that whole process. It's that partner model we worked out to the end. In that model that covers the entire vertical and in the next four minutes I'm going to say a few words about that model and finish this exhibit of mine. In fact, it has a key role, a key role, and that is why it was not possible to go before until the Law on adult education was passed, which is a vertical for those who complete their two-year and one-year programmes and who want to continue their education. They get a final exam, they get lower professional training, but they can run as much as they want because through a model of secondary education adults they can get further to their qualifications and all verticals can enter if needed in Bologna, whether it's about professional studies or university studies. If you look at this model. This model is the result of the work of a large group of people who know the vertical education from kindergarten to doctoral studies. It is one of the biggest problems of Croatian society. The left hand didn't talk to the right hand. Here's my assistant who spent her entire life in high school, at least she knew elementary school and vice versa. And that is why the creation of the ministry, which I know is a burden to me and everyone where there is a vertical education, was a key prerequisite for us to succeed because if one child leaves kindergarten and starts with the process of HNOS and if this HNOS does not communicate with the philosophy of state graduation or if the state graduate does not communicate with the philosophy of Bologna or if Bologna is not directed towards doctoral studies where Croatia needs to, then this whole effort is in vain, and he is merely focused on a system of education that causes local applause, which makes damage to educational verticals. Therefore, it is very clear that four-year programmes, whether professional or gymnasium waters through the state's graduation to medium professional training, which goes further and of course to university or professional studies. Three-year programmes give a final exam as well as programmes for lower professional training. Of course they can go if the child wants to be educated further through the secondary education of adults or through regular programmes, but the fact is that today's professional programmes, and the State Secretary can say a little more about this later, because I am, we have a cabinet session at 13 o'clock, we have to say that a huge job has been done in cooperation with chambers, with our social partners, because the number of jobs has been reduced by almost 200, that Croatia is doing a qualification framework of interest where every interest from Croatia will be complemented by the one in the European Union. The one that has been a danger so far and should be spoken of very clearly is the following, that the occupations that exist in Croatia, I must point out the butcher of small teeth that has not been qualified to deal with cattle of large teeth or other occupations, that they have passed and are more past. But if Croatia needs a workforce that is not qualified to work in Croatia, if it produces experts who have no knowledge that they can work in Europe, then it will happen that Croatia will get a number of unemployed from the European Union by entering 2009 and it has a large number of unemployment. We've predicted one more thing with this program, and that's next. It puts Croatia in a very clear position. I want to talk about it in public. As much as this leading position of Croatia in 2004 at the beginning of the mandate seemed like an imagination, me personally or my associates. She's becoming a reality today. Look at Commissioner Figell. Commissioner Figel, a few days ago, at the address of the European Union when we signed the seventh framework programme or the largest 50 billion-euro programme that Croatia has been participating over the next seven years, is a question of journalists, and the question was good how the European Union will be asked according to Croatia, which "breaks" the rules of education that are in the European Union, and Croatia offers 12 years of compulsory education. Figel said very wisely we are going to see what Croatian experiences are like, so we will apply them in the European Union if they are good. It is the great victory of the Croatian education system, the first man of the education of the European Union. Mr. President, I see that the red light is running out of time. I thank you for your attention, and I'll be here one more time if I have to. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90899	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90900	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I always find it in a way that when I listen to debates like this, then I see such enthusiastic statements by colleagues who support the government, sometimes we wonder what kind of country we live in because I would very much like to clap on these words as well, but reality is still something different, and I am sorry when we are just talking about some problems that the minister least talked about. I'm asking that these prosthetics that they're getting, let me speak, yes in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90901	There was no proscration, don't. Come on, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90902	So when it comes to what is a real situation in Croatia in school, I am sorry that the minister today spoke about everything in the introduction, and at least in high school. I'm sorry when he mentioned sneezing, so he said that there are bad working buses going to school, that he didn't mention that Sibenik-Knin County is just one of the three counties in the state that doesn't have any dorms and that he doesn't predict that the dormitories are built there. I'm sorry it wasn't said that two days ago in a two-year-old man's high school car, so the adult men with a baseball bat beat up a student at that school. And then when we talk about what's reality and what's real, I think I have to have a little touch of what's debate, which is document and what's reality. This document should be discussed at two levels. One is strategic, political, or what does it mean to us, in fact, high school, compulsory high school, and why is that necessary? And the second is the discussion at the level of this document itself. So, somewhere in a row. In the SDP, we agree that Croatia needs to extend the compulsory education that is today equal to the basic education. And I think it should point out that about 40% of the population in the Republic of Croatia today has either only primary school or less than primary school. And our problem isn't so much as how those in high school get her to finish her off than how these 20% who don't have a finished primary school get her to start primary school so they can go to high school. Second. The whole story came about mandatory high school, came somewhere in focus and political and professional public in early March by announcing to the Minister through the media that in the autumn, so 1.9 this year, so the next school year will be mandatory high school. So we who participated in these discussions and I personally said nothing new, we received an unreal announcement that would withdraw.' Now somewhere we have confirmation of that. So the school, contrary to the minister's announcements, will not be mandatory on the 1.9th of this school year, as the minister claimed three months ago. On the other hand, this project wasn't written in this strategy that was somehow brought to the government. There is very little in it except a very narrow circle of people therefore knows the education system development strategy 2005/2010. So it came somewhere quite surprising and quite unplanned. The debate at the time was and somehow focused on changing the law, on changing the Constitution, on changing the rules. That's not even mentioned in these documents today. Here I am, finally somewhere glad that the SDP's position is accepted that the first repression of things is not resolved but that conditions should be created and that the whole programme should be redefined as a programme aimed at gaining first profession or first qualification. Then we would be pleased to have this programme called somehow, because your programme is called "The National Programme of Measures for the Introduction of Mandatory Secondary Education" and it is not intended to introduce compulsory secondary education, nor has such objectives been defined. Three basic reasons why students don't go to school. That's what the minister said. I think it's important to point out that about 15% of the population, that somewhere in the first group of reasons is the lack of ability or on the other hand the inability of the system to respond adequately to the abilities that individuals have. Second, lack of motivation and interest. And somewhere on the third level, there are even weaker material conditions. And you need to answer each of these groups of problems that this program is responding to. They have specific problems in secondary schools that this programme also does not talk about or speak about, for example, marketing, violence. Research has been done around marketing. That's a big problem, and there's no one in this program about it. Another thing that doesn't even have a letter in the program, it's creating material conditions. So what we're missing today is if we charge this 15% of about 8 thousand chairs in some non-existent ones still because we don't do 250 or about 250 classrooms. We don't know how many teachers and what profiles we need. The minister mentions that mathematical number 156, but this could mean 5 for vocational schools, 50 for high school or whatever profiles. I mentioned that three counties in the country today do not have a single student home: Licko-Senjska, Sibenik-Kninska and Brod-Posaviska. That's not even a letter in this program. Somewhere at the end of this general part, I think we should all be clear that no regulation, constitution, law, national programme will create more educated people, and at least no matter how kind these actions are, our media actions, our media promotions will also not create more educated people. No one's going to school because TV sees a beautiful video where everyone goes to school happy. And what is important is, where, of course, the minister spoke most and somehow least of all, it is, of course, the issue of building the system itself, the question of standardisation, the definition of objectives, giving autonomy and people who work in the system and institutions themselves, as well as content or new occupations. I did a little following up on this competition that was and just a few weeks ago published in the public media about competitions for enrolment in high school, some new occupations were made. New occupations, new programs that can be educated in Croatia since this year if you didn't know that we only see the level of ambition in Croatia, are your maid, tractorist, stone-cutting, cestar, fruit and vegetable processor, supplier, plant grower in indoor space, child care provider, animal carer and, for example, welder. These are new occupations this year. As new as they are, I think we're leaving each and every one of us to think. ... Exactly. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When we said, when I said we should speak at the level of the document itself because that's the document we're discussing, we don't have Mr. Minister of this big table of yours, we don't have, we only have the material that you officially delivered to us about which we will officially vote. So the goals are defined as defined here in the explanation, through the explanation on page 2. However, I repeat, they do not say that the goal is to introduce a compulsory high school. They say the goal is to raise enrolment rates, create better conditions for students, create assumptions for lifelong learning, etc. These are the goals that we absolutely support so that there will be no delay at all. However, these should not be the objectives of a document called the National Programme of Measures for the Introduction of Mandatory High Schools. The first objective of the National Programme should be to introduce high school measures, then and then. I mean, it's basic logic. Secondly, what is interesting about this document is that in almost 50% of its content he prescribes two other documents, measures free textbooks, transportation, etc., we colleagues and colleagues have already voted in the 12th month population policy. These are not new measures, these are measures adopted by this Parliament as measures of population policy. And now we're going to vote them again as super new ones here in the program of these measures. Of course they're fine. In a way, they have as their goal to resolve a part of material conditions. However, the government adopted them primarily and thanked them and adopted them in Parliament as measures of population policy. The majority of the material takes an assessment of the situation and the smallest part of that assessment refers to secondary schooling and 1/4, respectively. Here we can see what is done in sport, we can see which institutions are made, we can see what are tasks in information and the like. By the way, this certificate you mentioned, a lot of teachers reported, they themselves had to pay for those courses. That was a lot to them from their pay, so we still have to tell the full truth. In fact, the problem is that we don't, the material doesn't talk about the real needs around high school, but to me it seems more like it's made with a purpose to say what it's all done and it seems to me to be some shortened version of what we've been given by reviewing the achievements not? In three years of this government's mandate. The second part that is important for the action plan itself, so we said population policy, that is the plan of implementation and the strategy of adult education. At least some of us discussed it when we passed the Law on adult education. One part of the measures was prescribed from the 2005 action plan. A measure for adult education that has not been implemented. That's what we talked about when the Law on adult education was passed. It was then said that this plan for adult education would be implemented like this. That it would be transferred to the next year, that there were no funds in the budget and so on. But we obviously have some kind of hyper production of national programs. In fact, we're copying everything we're doing from one to the other. From the draft program for, the National Programme of Action for young people this story about... We're copying here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where we rewritten the population policy part. We've rewritten part of the adult education action plans. It's probably something new. I agree that it should all be tied up. However, we have a bunch of national programmes that are not being implemented. And in your ministry, Mr. Minister. I wish we'd read a little bit better what other people's experiences have already spent. Who have changed reforms that say that what needs to be done is what you are doing, and you are saying here, an additional extension of the duration of compulsory education and the restructuring of education programmes. The extension of the duration of compulsory education in terms of predefinition at the primary and secondary level or the division of secondary levels to two or our primary to the lower secondary and primary ones here is not said, but absolutely nothing. And in the end, I am, by measure and activity, so what the content itself without reason has some 6.6 pages. I repeat, I would like the programme's objective to be defined, defined by the introduction of a mandatory high school or whatever, not social inclusion, quality employability and so on, which is totally fine. These are good goals... However, this programme should be called differently. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is interesting to see how the measures are put forward. The first measure in this National Programme is to inform the public about the need to involve pupils or pupils in the system of regular education or the implementation of media campaigns. When we were doing HNOS, we first started with TV videos, with these, and then after two years we made a document called HNOS. Now, for two or three weeks now, I've been feeling like I've been spinning TV videos about how happy kids are going to high school. Because she's like everyone else now, and it hasn't actually become operational yet and she hasn't come into office. It seems to me that the most important thing here is media and promotional campaigns rather than concrete measures that really want to be implemented. Something that's worth every step of the way. The implementation deadline for each measure shall be 2007-2013. Neither we know what will happen in 2008 nor in 2010 or 2011 because it is simply the same five-year or six-year deadline for each measure. In point 1.3, which aims to take appropriate measures to prevent the withdrawal of secondary education. There's a lot of these formulations in the program. For example, it is said that the necessary measures should be taken in time. So, for God's sakes, the national programme is about to determine what measures are needed? What are these measures in this or that area? What are these measures in the legislation? What are these measures elsewhere? We only have these very, very many of these general qualifications. For example, provide preconditions to improve spatial conditions and doactic equipment of secondary schools. How many schools? Where? What dynamics? What equipment? Then it would be a national programme of measures, not a list of good wishes. What kind of construction plan is that? What's the school network going to be like? Are we gonna stay on the school network or are we gonna go online? Then they're concrete measures. What does it mean to make appropriate changes to the legislation? It means changing the Constitution yes or no. Let me cut somewhere short. There's a lot more missing in this document than there is in it. It was written in quite an aproximative, defined manner and it seems to me that somehow the application of the formulations in order to justify not introducing a mandatory high school since this autumn, as the minister announced in early March. As a matter of fact, it's kind of more or less of a backup variant. In part, it is not prescribed from existing national programmes. And we, we would really like to make a quality program that will then reach a consensus, given that the consensus on the need to extend education mandatory to the acquisition of first profession exists. That then we really have an operational program that isn't going to throw every next government into some kind of drawer like it happened with some other programs that, for example, speak the same thing about the "car pile" that you put in a drawer somewhere. So the idea isn't bad, the program's written badly. It's somewhere in front of the SDP Club, adding that we certainly are in favour of extending the duration of compulsory education. And Mr. President, let us only eventually ask that here in financial indicators there are no financial indicators for the needs of the state budget we create commitments for the next 5 or 6 years to meet the Committee on Finance until the decision is made and that somewhere in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and their opinions. I hope then that this from the Ministry of Education will deliver that information because we are still creating major financial commitments for the next six budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90903	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Rules of Procedure. Okay. This is what the Committee on Finance and the State Budget will animate to call a session of the Committee and to answer that question. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90904	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I am truly surprised at your debate, and I will look back on it in my own discussion. However, I would correct the incorrect quote when you say that a media and promotional campaign that serves to sensitise the public for the importance of education is actually some kind of advert to the minister. I'm sorry, I have to find out that it's the most common, I don't know, fiction and inaccuracy, and on the other hand, and we've all heard here before, the minister didn't have any corrections to the incorrect allegations because there was nothing to fix? Because it was such a brilliant exposure that it really deserved a round of applause. It's another thing. You said the minister didn't talk about the lack of dormitories. Well, that's not true. So he just showed a lack of both schools and homes and staff and so on, but he also outlined measures and plans to improve it. Therefore, this should move us all to encourage the minister to, in this action. So give some optimism to the people! Well, we can never do anything if we're so pessimistic. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90905	Second correction by respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90906	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, an esteemed colleague, really, really, really completely disregarding this program as a good program, has made a whole series of failures, so sometimes she herself in her statements and killed herself. She said that this programme does not contain the creation of material conditions to start this proposal for a programme of measures. However, here is mentioned the adoption of a future pedagogical standard for the first time, and I have worked in the education system for 30 years. We haven't had a pedagogical standard in 30 years. What material conditions do we have to talk about when we don't have a pedagogical standard in this program of measures? It is precisely the promotion and adoption of a pedagogical standard that makes it possible for colleagues Lugaric to establish material conditions for individual schools and education. Second of all, fellow Members, you said that measures from the National Population Policy were prescribed here. Well, you don't think that free textbooks, free transportation of high school students and an integral part...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90907	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90908	...population policies and education.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90909	Thank you very much. Next Amendment, Honored Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90910	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues have already corrected part of the incorrect allegations, but in that debate there was a whole series. I will correct the part where my colleague said that this strategy came suddenly and unplannedly before the Croatian Parliament. However, this is really incorrect because for 3 years, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has been preparing for the introduction of the National Programme for Mandatory Secondary Education, which is 3 billion kuna given to the Ministry over the past year, so 800 people are employed in the system, so it is the construction of schools and preparation for one-way work in schools with 2 billion and 700 million kuna, and free textbooks and free transport in measures of population policy that is one Croatian government that has a development strategy, so it has shown more by unifying the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Science strategy for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90911	And the fourth correction, the respected representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90912	Thank you, Mr. President. So dear colleague Lugaric said in a number of incorrect allegations that the minister did not deal with the real situation at school in his presentation, so she also mentioned the marking. The children, the calves, the stallions are marked, parts of the text are marked. And you probably meant to talk about the unwarranted lack of students from the teaching process. And that's exactly what the minister was talking about. When we replace the board and the chalk with a smart record, then they won't be under the quotes of that "marking" and colleague Lugarić that you did at least a traineeship in the teaching process would know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90913	For the club of representatives of the CNS, Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90914	Dear Mr. Minister on departure, Mr. Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So, I don't think there will be in this assembly today in the debates of anyone who will object to the introduction of compulsory secondary education, or the fact that all young people who finish primary schools need to have an obligation or have no obligation to do so, because the situation in which the Croatian education system is located today is simply such that it points to the hasty taking of such measures. It's a difficult fact that a million and a half citizens of this country either didn't go to school at all or only finished primary school or went to high school. So a million and a half people in this country don't have finished high school, which actually means there's no occupation. There is no official compliance with the rules of interest, and this information is indeed unbearable and few will object to the fact that this situation is trying to change. The same is the second information that speaks of the number of highly educated people in this country, in the Republic of Croatia, which is 12% also unacceptable. Because the European average is about 30%. Now let's let the fact that in those 12% that there is 8%, that one part of those who have finished more schools, their place and their destiny in the future will be, of course, a debate about it. But even if we include each other, it's absolutely too small and we absolutely have to take measures to change that. So there will probably be no dispute, and of course the club of representatives of the Croatian People's Party and the Liberal Democrats supports therefore a rapid change in such a state of affairs in the educational system of the Republic of Croatia, not getting too far into how it happened. I'm just gonna have to partially look back and comment on some allegations from what the minister was saying about what it was. But in principle, when talking about it, like most things, we actually need to look back at what we have and what we need to do, or we intend to do. Similarly, there will be no dispute over what the objectives of this National Programme are. We will easily agree with the objectives highlighted in the National Programme and its reasoning, but of course the question remains whether the measures written for the implementation of this programme are sufficient to change the situation quickly enough and to achieve those objectives. That's a fundamental question. Are these measures the right instruments so that this situation can change? And the second question is almost equally important. Can that change fast enough? Unfortunately, we do not have the same grades, and this programme does not give such optimism as the Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Croatia gave in his opening speech here. This program is a very demanding program. And if we had a little more political procedure, the usual then these big programs should always be proposed at the start of any government's mandate. This program has an ambition so deeply touched on this country's education system, you don't even know how difficult this programme is. If we wanted to look at it and just to roughly estimate how difficult it is then it would probably be about 5 billion kuna a year, on an annual basis, so when it comes to 6 years, it would be 30 billion kuna, and that would be a third of the budget and... only for financial reasons should they bring in at the beginning of the term of office of any Government, and not at the end of that term. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're formal objections, but they don't matter. I call upon anyone who defies such ambitious programs to suggest that they are always proposed in the first year of his term. Not even in the second, and especially not in the last year, because if he was unable to suggest it in the first year of office means that by taking the lead he didn't actually know, he didn't have a clear concept of what to do. Now let's see how things are about our determination to change the state of things. Very often the minister speaks, it is in this document, a review of the achievements we have received in our materials, in each of its almost public advances it is said that the increase in education funds in the Republic of Croatia is from 2003 to 2007. 34% and we do not, of course, dispute this, but it is not a real indicator of our determination and our determination that it is a strategy to rest the development of this country that we agree on, but what is the share of the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports in relation to the total state budget and that is the basic data, and that data suggests that this share is stagnating all these four years. If the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports has grown to 34%, which is not as much a dispute as in some percentage, the total budget of the Republic of Croatia has grown, which means that a fundamental shift that says that this is important to us, that we have not done anything more important than anything else. If the share of that budget is 8%, then there won't be any more serious shifts. Either government wants it or doesn't want it, if we don't decide to go to 9% next year, that year at 10% or 11% or 12% in some slightly wider period, because that shows that we think it's crucial for this country's development. If this budget stagnates, then there is no talk that the government has a real determination, an operational determination that education is what the future, the economy and the development of the country should be on, and that is what it is. So the thing about secondary education is that the ministry's even more unpleasant budget has grown in total, everything the ministry has covered with 34% and the middle education budget is only 26%. This means that secondary education allocations have fallen in the last 4 years compared to the overall budget of the Republic of Croatia in percentage share. It's the same situation with primary school education. It's only about high education, which is 46%, which we certainly welcome as a fact, but it's isolated from these two facts, it actually gives and the wrong impression and that's what I think we should talk about in particular. The minister said that education 5 years ago was in a catastrophic state, I am against such distant returns to the past because it is then neglected and often loses track of what it is now and what it is to do, but it is simply not so. The only more serious shift in the share of the science and education budget in the Republic of Croatia compared to the total budget is the percentage of the growth in the share of this year, 2001 and 2002. Since then, that share has been stagnating, and it can be very simple to check. I also talked about it when I talked about the budget, and of course I will talk about it because it is one of the very important topics for me because I really believe that education is something to rest on and economic development and the overall development of the Republic of Croatia. Now, let's talk about the program itself. So, I'm afraid that unless we have a precise process of these objectives and a precise measure of what to do with the deadlines and the money that these measures must cover, and that is the segment in which they must be invested. Some other segments may be able to fix some organisational changes, but there are no repairs here if there is no financial investment. It's a simple sector in which you have to spend to give you a profit in some other segments. And if you don't have both, if you don't have deadlines, precise measures, with deadlines and financial write-offs, then all that can be left is a declaration. We agree with all the goals, but what does professional teaching mean? One whole system of measures that is not only complicated to organise, but also basic documents based on what this education is and of course someone has to pay for it. There's no such thing in this document. Some things are undeniable, such as free textbooks, we support, free transportation, we also support, accommodation in homes, these are encouraging measures, but those who wrote this document rightly say that these encouraging measures as many good people as they are accepted will not be enough to improve more significantly the number of those who will finish secondary education in the Republic of Croatia. And some other things that have been put here as measures, or targets, are even more complicated. Individual work with each student requires the enormous efforts of teachers who have to be better educated, have to be educated permanently, have to be much more and have to be paid much better. Social inclusion. So you know what that means? Well, we have a problem with primary education, and today it happens to us that because of a few bad students, we let go of the reasons why they're bad, they're not students with developmental difficulties, with social exclusion, at least not to a large extent. It happens to us that the teacher spends most of his energy in relation to these students, not 90% of the others, and that I'm not talking about how there's no energy to turn to and devote its time, attention to those 10% with special needs, but in a positive sense. The danger arises here not only that we will not have the strength for such an individual approach, if we did not plan it well, but that these students will also make it impossible for us to have an existing level of teaching process because they will interfere with it as it often happens in primary schools because we do not have a specific approach as the minister tells troubled students. It's one of the great pains of our primary education system. If we introduce this without the right plans here, then it's going to be in high school education, and that can be even worse than in primary school education. Therefore, I don't think there's any dispute over the declarations, about the objectives, about the fundamental intention, about the basic assessment. But this program is simply not as precise as it would have to be to be acceptable. So not all measures can be taken from 2007 to 2013 So the measures must be differentiated. Free textbooks, free transportation, accommodation in homes. Maybe it can be done in a year. National corriculums can be brought in maybe a year. New programmes or modernisation of existing programmes can be brought in two years. But some things really take six years. I can't all of these things be six years, because it doesn't really mean anything and it's a fundamental lack of this program and that's the main reason why we won't support it. This programme must be implemented, in operationalisation much more ambitious, much more precise in order to comply with the basic definition and objectives. And the goals are indeed something that is not disputed here. So that's why the HNS Representatives Club won't support this program. And we hope, of course, that his goals with this or some other government will be achieved as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90915	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90916	Thank you, Mr. President. So I don't know if my colleague Rados deliberately manipulated mathematics or if he forgot what the budget was at the time of the coalition government. In fact, at the time of the coalition government, a whole set of funds was out of the budget, which resulted in a significantly lower budget and higher share of education. After uniting the budget by entering, by clearly creating the State Treasury, by entering all funds into the budget, the budget is rapidly growing and the resources for education are much higher than in their time becoming a smaller percentage, which I think my colleague should know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90917	Dear Representative Maria Byte is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90918	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting Mr. Jose Rados' incorrect claim that this government should have proposed this programme at the beginning of the term of office because it did not know what to do. That's incorrect. Because at the beginning of this government's mandate, a billion and 200 million kunas of inherited debt for the regression and shift work was and for more than a year this government paid back that debt. For three years it is preparing for this system of introducing compulsory education as seen through new employment and professional training of teachers, the introduction of the Education and Education Agency, the construction and preparation of schools for one-way work, and also what the colleague recently mentioned, free textbooks, free transportation of students, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90919	HDZ club respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90920	Thank you, Mr. President, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So I will say at the very beginning that the HDZ Representatives Club has considered this National Programme proposal for measures to introduce compulsory secondary education and that we will support it for several reasons. First of all, I will start from what I have proposed this programme contains and what is proposed I would say in those expectations that are the outcome of this entire proposal of the programme. The promoter himself says that for the full success of the implementation of the National Programme measures, it is important to coordinate the action of all stakeholders of the system. Programmes in secondary schools will especially be considered professionally to be suitable needs and interests of students, the modern way of teaching will be enhanced, professional teacher training will be enhanced, parents will be involved in the work of the school, and more care will be taken about the ability to engage and develop partner relations, and this, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Employment, Local Community, State Department of Statistics, Croatian Associations of Employers. If we are wondering why the proposal for national measures for the introduction of secondary education is, then the answer can best be found in the very explanation of the motion that my predecessors agreed with here in most cases. And that is, above all, a picture of the state of the educational structure that tells us first of all what our population's qualification structure is. Of course she's unsatisfactory. The general objective of the programme is measures from the national programme, which I have already said will have a basic objective of raising the educational level of the population, enabling successful social inclusion and better quality employment, and certainly increasing economic competitiveness. This program, I have to remind you it's not lonely. I, for the sake of remembering, must repeat what the minister said in his opening statement, and that is what this government has done here, in a three-and-a-half-year term, in order to really improve education and education as a priority, above all a priority measure and a goal of development. I will only mention some achievements of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and really refer to the dedicated work of everyone in this ministry headed by the Minister and the Government who supported these proposals. I'll take the caboose so he doesn't forget. First of all, I wanted to admit it or not to invest in the system of education and science for these four years. Sam's colleague, Radosh, said 34.2%. It's never been that long before. We've paid off inherited debts and claims. I was a participant in high school people who, who had promised to regress, who had promised to pay for their shift work, who for three years had suffered for almost four years from signing a collective contract and waited honestly for what they had signed. They didn't get that. Mrs. Byte mentioned a billion and 200 million kunas. As always, educators have truly respected all the facts agreed to agree with the Ministry and saved this ministry 530 million kuna because some of them agreed. They didn't press charges. Those who filed charges received a 382 million return on those funds. Here's what started with this ministry when it was taken over in 2003 at the very end of that year. New jobs have opened up. Here, my colleague Radoš mentioned students who often create difficulty in teaching. I agree with my colleague, Radosh. And have you considered that even such students have their place in the education system? However, so far, the former government's regulation prohibiting the employment of professional staff or pedagogists, or defecologists, or psychologists as teachers who assist the teacher, has not been employed. They're just people who need it more and more. And that's why this ministry has just opened new jobs for expert education associates. I'm not going to mention school construction because it would take me a long time. But what I believe most of the pain is a Croatian national educational standard that has come across full approval, I will also tell you the parents of well-intentioned and educational workers. He wasn't introduced in a hurry. It wasn't children who were trying rabbits like it was meant to be. He was introduced in the first year of 49 elementary schools, which alone responded to the Ministry's call to be experimental schools and that they would conduct teaching according to the Croatian national educational standard. Since this school year, he's been introduced based on the results of these 49 schools in all primary schools. State's graduation is in place. Now here we are on the trail of a new national programme that will extend compulsory education. We moved significantly in the development of vocational education. Informing schools, establishing new universities with professional studies, is the vertical passing point the minister spoke of. First of all, I have to say that we have established new agencies to support this reform. The Agency for Education and Education. For vocational education. The Agency for Adult Education. So we're, this Ministry has managed to bite and a hot cookie adult education. It's been a problem in the education system forever. The National Curricula Council of Preschool, Primary School, High School System was established. The pedagogical standard council I already mentioned here. Why does it matter? Because it will create the conditions and accurately draw out the material conditions for each primary school, for every kindergarten, for every high school. If you remember, we also brought a strategy for adult education and action plan. And finally this is what the Ministry is doing and preparing for the Croatian qualification framework. I won't mention it, the minister mentioned the butchers of the small tooth cattle. I can also mention carpenters for the tops and bottoms. I unfortunately worked in a system of vocational education when that profession was educated. It's a stationery for making underwear and tops. Well, we didn't know what it was to make shoes. I will now return to the proposal for a national programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education. This proposal also contains strategic goals and a picture of the situation in education today and yesterday. But also plans for tomorrow. Reasons for introduction. This programme, the proposal for a programme, also contains specific objectives that no one here has underlined by wanting to reduce the importance of probably this programme. I'll draw them out. The specific objectives of the National Programme are: to increase the rate of enrolment of pupils and students and the degree of completion of regular secondary education, to improve the quality of Croatian secondary education and to bring it into line with the European education system and standards of the Member States of the European Union. Ensure opportunities for lifelong learning, compliance with the needs of modern life and economy. These specific objectives of the National Programme also give rise to measures for the implementation of the National Programme which are also systematically explained. Which have carriers and a deadline for implementation. Probably the Proposer will answer why the 2007 and 2013 implementation deadline? So if we read them and we don't have time to read all the measures that come from these specific goals, then you'll see that they can't be implemented in a year or two. That it was written in 2008 and 2009 I believe it would be very unserious of this ministry. There are deadlines. It is appropriate time for six years especially in the education of colleagues and colleagues who are a very sensitive area to make certain things not only run but lead to their goal. And here we have the goal of extending compulsory high school education. So it is not possible that here today it is said that this proposal does not have a goal. I would therefore say in the end that we as a Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal for a national programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education because it is for the benefit of the entire society. What is it for the benefit of our future students, but also of present students who will also be able to provide the basic goal and project of this Ministry and of this Government, which is lifelong learning. Proportionality of education and the so-called horizontal and vertical lines. So it's really possible to pass through, and that's what it takes. In particular, we support the reform of vocational education because I must say that the most problems so far have been in vocational education. I won't mention any problems in vocational education you had at all with the titles of occupation. And here's the minister, and here's some of them I mentioned, and I need to tell you why vocational education is important. Because 70% of our students are enrolled in vocational school. 70% of young people graduate from vocational school. The important thing is that this ministry started with its bionics to investigate the labour market. What does our market need, our economic development? So in the last two years and we've reduced the number of professional sectors from 32 to 14 so we're recognizable both in Europe and in the world, the number of professions from 330 to 199. So the ultimate goal is to reduce and make our education recognizable not only in our country but also in Europe and throughout the world. Because our graduate student must be recognized on the labour market in other countries. Here, therefore, we will support the proposal for a national programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90921	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90922	Mr. President, counterpart Roksandic said that the Croatian national educational standard was not introduced quickly. I think it is an incorrect quote, because everything that happened afterwards shows that this Croatian national educational standard has been introduced in haste. And that's how the next fact shows it. Two important councils that should have preceded the Croatian national educational standard, which is the National Girlcullum Council in pre-school, primary and secondary education and the Pedagogical Standard Council should have been established before any implementation, even if experimental implementation of the Croatian National Education Standard. That's an assumption. You must have a council, i.e. you must have principles on which you will create a Croatian national educational standard, and these principles and rules must be set up by expert councils. And the expert council was founded only in September last year. Therefore, it is a confirmation of my position that the Croatian national educational standard has been introduced in haste.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90923	The club of the representatives of the HSS, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90924	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Allow me to engage in this debate in the next 10 minutes, 15 minutes and on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club and to present the views of the HSS. It is certainly nice to listen from this pay phone to a whole series of good achievements that have been made in this term of four years. And there, of course, are the constructions in elementary schools and a whole series of projects that were launched in primary school. And that's good, that's not forbidden, of course. We know this is pre-election time, and it's good to say it. Although it's certainly a subject related to compulsory secondary schooling. Well, I might, considering the public doesn't have this material either, and all of us who are talking, then it's hard to assess how wrong someone is. But I hope that through the media, the media will also have the opportunity to get all relevant information and information and to be able to inform about what is proposed. At first, I'm just going to say that certainly HSS this idea is not bad at all, but it's very well supported, but we think that this program that's ahead of us should be done. I'll say some of the reasons why we think so. In fact, when it comes to the objectives set out here, we can also read them, so these are the specific objectives of the National Programme, which are ultimately important, the general objective is also mentioned. Then you can kind of synthesize it in a few sentences. He wants to raise the student standard with an existing, existing good idea supported by HSS, free transportation of students, free accommodation in dormitories and of course free textbooks. I'd like to say that the one-way course project deserves far more attention. It seems to me that with this idea, maybe a little too sudden to get into the public without making a serious analysis. I was the mayor of the last term in Varazdin County, we launched a one-way course project exactly four and a half years ago and it is still being implemented. And we know exactly what dynamics it goes in and what direction it's going in. But when we talk about a one-way course project, then I'd like it to say in this material, too, how much funds are needed to implement this programme. I repeat, it is good for the public to know that under point 7 of that programme, the funding of the implementation of the national programme stands only a few sentences. This is precisely why the HSS insists and asks for the development of a full model of funding for the national programme for the introduction of compulsory secondary education. When we're talking about one-way forward, then I'd like to remind you. We have not written here how much new space it will take compared to the existing number of students, or if we look and I don't know for a few years how many new ones will come or in 10 years how many new ones will come from primary schools, so we have to have some projections as much as it will take in the future of this new space, whether more or less, where more, why more and so. When we talk about this space, it means how many new schools, how many new sports halls, how many additions to existing facilities are needed. Not the information as described in this material as to how much will be built in a given year, we find it interesting to hear how much space it will take to realize this national programme. Why? So to know how much money it takes, and it doesn't say how much money it's going to take. Furthermore, when we talk about one-way follow-up, we need to know how much more resources we will need, so more decentralised resources need to be provided to increase current maintenance. They'll have lots of new rooms, they'll need heating, bigger heating costs, lighting, equipment. How much will it take for new investment maintenance funds? They're all decentralised funds. First of all here, I mean investment maintenance of existing facilities because it's assumed that new facilities won't need that much funding for that investment maintenance. There's a lot of talk about new employment. More specifically, here writes the data as much as is in, how many new employees are in this term of office and that is good, and it also says for higher education etc. Even though we care about high school education here. When we talk about new employment, then I'm definitely turning to the goal again, which is one shift. How many new teachers will it take, but not just teachers. As soon as you increase the space, more sports halls, you'll also need auxiliary staff, cleaners, janitors. It all costs money. So we'd like to have exact indicators of how much this national programme will cost to introduce compulsory secondary education. How much funding is needed in the state budget. Why am I saying that? Well, it's simple because in this pre-election time, everyone just makes a lot of promises. We as the Croatian Peasant Party have developed our programme of the rebirth of Croatian villages where we have said that for the revitalisation of Croatian villages, so for the retention of villages and rural areas at some level as is now and possibly returning to the village should be encouraged to allocate 4 billion annually new funds, and of course every year. A few months ago, there was talk of equating or equating new and old pensions. Average minimum 2 billion a year. This program I don't know how much it's gonna cost, my colleague Radosh said about five billion. Where's the funds from? Desires are nice and big, but we should then have some kind of proposal to discuss how to provide the means to implement this programme. Certainly when we talk about it then we must also mention the fact that it is logical and understandable that every government that enters such significant proposals, I would say reform proposals to place at the beginning of the mandate and that during the term of office tests the acceptance of the programme, and let's not forget, we can criticise, we can disagree, however, but the greatest reform is precisely... The coalition government in early 2000, better said in 2001 when there were county elections, decentralisation processes, etc. And we tested that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether there were more or less public acceptances was seen by the results of the election. Well, then it would be logical if we got this program at the beginning of 2004 and then we could somehow test what its acceptance is, what its realization is like. Why am I talking about realisation? The goals are acceptable, why not. But look at that. Here on page 21, it writes measures for the implementation of the national programme. These measures are divided into three groups, but the total number of measures is 50. Of course with carriers and deadlines in six years. But 50 measures significant at national level. That's what needs to be realized. If we were to talk about a lower level then we might be able to discuss it easier, but a good part of these measures is a continuation and some are being implemented now, but 50 measures to realize this programme is not small. So, I think it would certainly be crucial that we get this national programme on the bench and adopt it at the beginning of the term of office. Then you would see how much funds are allocated for each year for the implementation of that programme. And let's not think at this point we can face each other here. The existing decentralised funds are not sufficient. I'm glad there's going to be a correction, but I'd like to hear what the correction is. They're not enough. I'll tell you and confirm it on the example of the Varazdin County. The Varazdin County started in 2001 in a serious process of capital investments or construction and construction of new buildings. In those 4 years, there have been many new facilities built, in 11 schools we started a one-way course, but in this term in Varazdin County, a model of public private partnership for the construction or implementation of a one-way course programme is intended to total a billion kuna. In one county. A billion kunas. Listen carefully to what I say. And yet not all objects are included because of certain limits that we have set here in the Parliament, in one county. Of course, there are funds and municipalities, county and private investors, but all these funds will of course take 25 years to return. I repeat a billion kunas. And I assure you that the student standard in Varazdin County is not the worst in Croatia. I'd say it's among the better. So how much money are we going to need in other counties? Maybe double. And what are these funds that should be charged in the budget and allocated to the implementation of the national programme for the introduction of compulsory secondary education? Great, enormously large and let's not engage in pre-election campaigns here, talk about how many objects have been made in this term. That's nice. You say that in the stands. We're talking about this program here. Without a concrete proposal of the financial resources necessary for the implementation of this programme, you cannot get support. Well, that's the key. This is a great wish plan. Excellent pre-election material. But it should have a foundation in the means. How much money can be allocated? I repeat the hikes are enormously large for the pensioners, for the farmers, so my peasants. And everyone expects it to be organized. How do you sow the funds? I'm also going to say something about the information process. I've got plenty of time. The process of informing me of my grief is not being carried out in accordance with the standards of the European Union. Not only for the area of education that we understand, but also for the overall processes that take place in other ministries or in other areas. We had four months ago here and the Sports Act. It is also said to introduce the information system in sport. That's what it says in those materials somehow. So are we going to have these kind of systems for elementary school, for high school, for sport, I don't know what's expensive, so for high school and so on. Shouldn't we have discussed here a whole information system of education that would then have its subsystems. It's the same here. That's a lot. Thank God you're going through these processes because the information processes are important. We wanted to or did not want to admit but children in primary school are sometimes more professional and skilled and use computers better than their parents, which is normal and understandable. So let's let them have these standards in elementary school, in primary school and, of course, in high school, not to say in, in colleges. These standards that are prescribed are not so easy to implement because of the funds. I would like this material to be complemented by exactly these parameters that I was talking about, including, of course, a population policy that is very, very important. We know our villages are slowly dying. Where's the high school concentration going to be? In what way does he intend to decentralize and accommodate high school? It's a question that should answer this material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90925	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90926	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm doing. I'm satisfying the wish of a colleague who said, just to see what the correction is going to be, so I'm correcting. At this pre-election time, everyone just makes a lot of promises. That's not true. The HSS promises nothing, but threatens to close all roads with a group of contemplators unless the wheat is per kuna and 20. I didn't take this as a threat first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90927	U.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s club, the respected representative, Milorad Pupovac. How? Who? ... [[Aggression: Correction of an incorrect quote.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then the correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Then watch my men, so we...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90928	Thank you, Mr. President. But I really picked up the board twice, and I don't know why no one noticed me. I want to correct one of the incorrect or two incorrect allegations of fellow Sabati. My colleague said thank God you're going into this, but it's still not good, it's a pre-election campaign, it's pre-election programs. I just want to remind you that this is not a pre-election campaign, that this program is being prepared for three years and that these achievements that you have heard today are reality. I would like to remind you that it is incorrect that a mass of problems with one-way work in primary schools cannot be solved because on 11 April, the minister presented a project for the construction, reconstruction of primary and secondary schools, which will take place through the joint funds of the state budget and loans of the World Bank. Normally it won't be settled in a year. So this program has a six-year-old period.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90929	At 13,01, the time for the ten-minute hearing was up. U.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s club, the respected representative, Milorad Pupovac. He's gone. The club loses its word on this agenda point. Club representatives of HSLS respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90930	Thank you, Mr. President, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Here, they let me say a few of our side facilities really like this on behalf of the club. They say they're on their way around the world with the first step, so I'm trying to see the fates of this project as well. And this project doesn't lack ambition. And we think at the HSLS club, we think it's a good thing to be ambitious and that we're actually trying to set up as much as possible, or raise that ladder, the limits. Because if we're simply apriories, I don't know, the subjective side of this project, then I'm afraid we'll find these very reasons to stay out of this project very quickly. It seems to us at the club that education is really to those resources that no one can take away from us. Indeed, it depends, not on some external international circumstances, but on the fact that it belongs and that we can take fate into our own hands. We usually find and like to realize that our educational standards are quite low. We're talking about our academic community, the number of college graduates is not more than seven, eight percent. And these implications, these facts are both economic and political and whatever you turn around. And what we at the club think must change at all costs. One way to change this negative situation is to make sure that high school becomes mandatory. We know that it's not easy and that it requires a whole series of advances that must certainly be made of these, just the ones that belong to a technical operating side. But I don't think we should give it up. The goal is noble, and I don't think we should run away from this debate that's going to open. And then certainly what society wants to do if it wants to catch that rhythm with developed European countries is clear that it costs it. And what we're also interested in, we don't need to run away from these certain projections, simulations of how much this could cost because these are really, these are measures that are far-reaching. But I think every kuna that's going to invest in it is going to come back a hundred times soon. In the end, the same thing if by joining the European Union, when we become full members, that possibility of really free-cutting people, capital, values, that will apply to education as well. It is these limits, these limits that a well - educated, well - educated man can really cross, that he can really behave like that air current. That we freely, freely communicate and that we really live in Europe without borders and that we do, and that this educational standard of ours and that the more citizens are involved in this, in high school education. To higher education. And that way we'll certainly act interactively. Have feedback, feedback on both our and our economies. And exactly what we've already proposed here at the Club several times we've lived under, unfortunately, for a long time, that one idea of a school factory, Shuvar's time, it wasn't that stupid. We felt it was stupid because it was too ideological. But when we get the ideology out of it, then actually it's just that, the idea of lifelong schooling itself isn't really, it's not stupid at all. On the other hand, it is quite clear to us that if paradigms change quickly, they really change in knowledge. The knowledge that once increased by arithmetical progression is now increasing by geometric progression. And exactly what I don't know about a few years ago was the actual thing already, it's generations they're learning, which are going to learn tomorrow in some way becomes a "dog." And precisely for these reasons that actually more, that the diplomat of any, at any level, will not be enough that we can engage in one life of economic, political, financial without the need to keep learning. In this respect, the HSLS Club also gives full, full support to this proposal for a national programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education. I'm saying that there isn't one, and we're not running away from these measures being detected and kind of trying to get out of a particular simulation as soon as possible, the projections of how much it's going to cost. And in fact, in which time it can be done. And yet the same on the other side seems to us that then these, too,... These demographic problems can be solved, that a policy of decentralisation can be resolved, a policy of regionalisation precisely with a system of secondary schools because it is very, very necessary and on the other hand, that we have exactly what is possible... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The population that will be up, usually educated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on the other hand, here's a fellow Letica who's always given me one as usual, and usually what he knows, give me a bug in the ear, and that's the problem exactly motivation. We actually have to create an ambience in society that education, that education actually pays off. That, that those people who know that these are valuable people, those who have their reputation in their micro environment and in general in public that such people are as much and promotional as possible and not that... that you have these, these guys which, the truth God pretty well pushes, pushes and rubs with the ball but without some great school they can today earn a few million Euros which, in fact, the average citizen of Croatia does not even know how to write and let alone imagine that it can earn it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's why this element of motivation of this kind of proposal of national programmes should be introduced, and I just said once again, education is the resource that no one can actually take away from us, which we ourselves, which if we create an environment that it can succeed. And then there's a certain reward, a certain promotion, a certain success. Then really, then I really think this ambitious program has its own, it makes sense. So I say again, once again, we need to prepare ourselves to join the European Union and in this way. Here's the thing, I've got information here about compulsory education, like in one of Hungary's... Ireland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So Hungary is one neighboring country. Ireland, which is otherwise offered as some model of success, is 12 years. In Malta, the Netherlands, Scotland, Great Britain for 11 years. France, Lithuania, Norway, Germany, Spain for 10 years. Austria, Slovenia, Japan 9 years, Macedonia. Macedonia for 8 years. Then we really have to do it ourselves, in America for 12 years, 11, 12 years, it's different in certain federal states. Then there's really no reason why we shouldn't raise that limit. More to the point, the more I think it's going to happen, the more I say it, the more I'm going to do it, the more I'm going to do it, the more I'm going to say it, the more I'm going to do it, the more I'm going to do it, the more I'm going to do it, the more I'm going to do it, the more I'm going to do it, and the more I'm going to do it, the more I'm going to do it, and the more I'm going to do it, the more I'm going to do it, the more than I'm going to do it, and the more than I'm going to do it. And that then about ourselves, that we can think of ourselves that way and say that it will be, that will be when we have confirmation, rather than just that, we think about it and we don't have cover. Then I don't know where the statistics show that only 7 and a few percent of Croatian citizens have an academic degree, which then I say unfortunately implies a whole series of other bad political ideological implications because it's always easier for those less educated to manipulate, it's easier for them to sell demagogy. And with the people who are truly conscious of themselves, they have certain knowledge that goes even harder. And that's theirs, then that fear for business and that flexibility and everything I say positive processes, positive vibrations in society event can certainly only be possible with high and educational citizens. In that sense, I say the HSLS Club gives support to this National Programme proposal and I say there is also no reason to make these measures and some dynamics as soon as possible to make these... how much will it cost and during what period can it be made, and what will be the priorities? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But first, let me say here I see the key to the solution and our decentralisation, our generalization and some even surveillance of the Republic of Croatia, which we must also not allow really education to be merely the privilege of large cities or rich citizens, but that it must indeed be the privilege of every citizen of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90931	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90932	A colleague, Kramaric, mentioned that I had whispered something to him. I was specific. I was saying that two brothers of Kovac who have practically incomplete elementary schools can make 10 billion euros. Kerum, who also has a primary school, weighs EUR 100 million. And Radimir Cacic wrote a book that makes fun of teachers in elementary schools and high schools and boasts that he was a vagabund and that he didn't learn anything and that he didn't know anything. It is therefore difficult to motivate children to have a motivation for compulsory secondary education in such a culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90933	Representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone, she's losing her word. State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90934	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs allow me to briefly look back on these words that you have spoken on behalf of the representatives' clubs to clarify something that has been said because I am convinced that we are all speaking here in good faith, wanting to achieve the best solution and agreeing on the fundamental goals that have been declared here what is we want to achieve? On several occasions, it was mentioned that this National Programme was to be at the very beginning of the mandate of a government. Of course, it would be great if you could get on with it right away. But here I want to say that we were aware of the need to raise the qualification structure, aware of the fact that we have at least a year of compulsory education with the Republic of Macedonia which is 8 years old but has already launched constitutional changes to extend compulsory education. So we'd be the only ones with 8 years of compulsory education. We are aware of these facts and of course we want to change that. However, at the very beginning of this government's mandate, we have very clearly detected the situation and we have seen that actually support for the entire education system is not sufficiently secure. And for these reasons, our first steps were just the establishment of new professional institutions, and I will remind you only of what you know very well, because it was happening here in this House of Commons. So to raise or create assumptions for raising the quality of education we passed the Law on the National Centre for External Education Values here in the Croatian Parliament in 2004. The following expert institution was established by the Agency for Professional Education and ultimately by the Agency for Adult Education. From that time to today, many school facilities have been completed. I'll just remind you that a good number of objects have been completed that have been in so-called. I loaned CEB 5, so I'm talking about what started in 2002, and then some other projects were later opened, it's quite built by the state budget and, in other part, from the founder's budget. So only when we created assumptions that we were going with this National Programme, when we did significant research that our minister was talking about, above all, research by Ivo Pilar Institute and the Institute of Public Finance, then we decided to take this step. So, therefore, we couldn't start with that in 2004, that is, at the beginning of this government's mandate, but only when we created a prerequisite to actually do so. The question has been asked how, unlike this, this is a look into the future, that all citizens in the future who enter the education system not to get out of it without some qualification. But what do you do with the past, the one-million-and-a-half that doesn't have any qualifications? I will remind here that in 2003 another project that we have intensified was launched, and this is a project for Croatian literacy and a path to a desirable future, or as we call it in the jargon descripting, so all citizens of the Republic of Croatia over the age of 15 who have not completed compulsory education can finish it on the cost of the state in the institutions that do so. We have, of course, informed the Croatian Employment Service and all the necessary institutions and this process has been launched. So so far, we have about 3,000 people who have completed these primary education classes at the expense of the state as much as they have missed and offered a training programme at the end of their qualifications. So the claim that's been made here, I have to say it's not the most accurate, so that's what I'm talking about right now. We are truly willing to offer to all those who will enter the system of secondary education to choose what suits them best both their preferences and their abilities and their motivation. So we've also offered low-skill programs, so two-year programmes, in some cases and over a year. Here I have no feeling that it is mentioned as could be mentioned, I will list some other activities at the lower level of professional training that could have been completed so far, but only within the framework of the Training Programme most often in our popular open schools, but these are respected advocates and pay representatives, and for those who may not be employed it is very difficult to pay several thousand kuna to complete such training program. By offering these programs to our students, we offer them in regular schools as regular programs, so that's what's not being paid. On the contrary, this is what is free of charge with all these encouraging measures that have been mentioned. Let me mention a few of these programs from a lot of them that we've made up, so you'll see how much they need the labour market actually from their daily lives. So, these are interior arrangements with flowers, these are plant growers in a closed area, installers of machinery installations, manufacturers and monitors of PVC and aluminium carpenters, installers of electrical machines and devices, water and installation installers, numerous assistive activities in construction and geodesy, for example, construction work of high construction, auxiliary armer, ceramicist, painter. Furthermore, furniture installer etc. So a lot of those simple professions for students who do not have greater ambitions to finish them and find their place on the labour market because it is precisely the kind of interests that the labour market needs. Of course, it is open to all of them the possibility of completing such a programme if they wish to continue education in the educational vertical to continue, under certain conditions, by passing the differences exams, to continue the more demanding programme and to complete the three-year or four-year programme. Next, let me mention one more. The question was whether it would be carried out quickly. You know that there are no rapid changes in education, that they are most often related to one generation, and the sooner they are hired, of course, to be realized sooner. So the answer to that question is that it will not be implemented quickly, it will be implemented as possible, that is, as the educational system requires. And finally, in the next account after individual discussions I will inform you of how financially difficult this is. So we've already taken one step, so-called. The PVU form, i.e. the financial impact assessment form, went to the Ministry of Finance, which we are obliged to deliver when we send the National Programme into the parliamentary procedure. And then he'll tell you exactly what it's like per year, counting for the next four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90935	Thank you. We'll interrupt the session now. We'll continue it at 3:00. It's the honorary representative of Slaven Letica at 15.00 hours. We continue the session and the debate on the National Programme proposal for measures to lead compulsory secondary education. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Franjo Arabovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90937	Not only am I here, but I have the right to speak. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's enough of that said today, maybe just a few more words. Namely, since I often talk to entrepreneurs about his needs... The schooling, the insufficient training of the staff they're looking for, here I am a little involved here, so here's a few words. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Normally, the development of the economy and the needs of qualified workers will not be without quality education and it should be connected in fact, which is why we do not have a sufficient number of students. They're not in vocational schools anymore, they're not even pay anymore. These wages that are offered are very, very high, they would be surprised how many craftsmen pay for professional workers, but the problem that needs to be considered here today is how to bring children into school at all. So it's about those who leave primary school. It's hard to say that they don't graduate from primary school, because almost all children are now finishing primary school, so they go out to meet and really the most problematic children, they're being helped by repairs and various ways. So the primary school sort of ends. And now as far away as possible. I've been watching these strategic goals a little bit, they're really good, totally fine. The announcement of compulsory high school education is a good announcement, but this is also a good preparation, and this preparation can be very important to these very encouraging measures. Normally, professional information and guidance is extremely important in primary school and it has to be as often as possible for children to realize where they are after primary school to finish regardless of their crafts, they go further to high school for studies and such, but children should be very well informed. In fact, I'm a little following up on this new basic school curricula based on these HNOS guidelines with quality professional training and school staff, and the directors are always in seminars and the like. I can say that the results are very positive. Namely, here's my wife working at school, so then we talk about it a lot, and I've been doing the same thing at school for 24 years, so I'm normally interested in that area. In fact, teaching has become much more interesting. The plans are already very much reduced, and I believe there's more to be reduced. Students do not sit more and more often in school benches, but simply go out to the theater, either on tours, on exhibitions which is very good and they are very happy to accept it. Special attention is directed to students who show very poor results. I'm not saying it's kids with developmental difficulties, it's just a bunch of different reasons. A lot can be done here if attention is paid, special attention in cooperation with parents. In fact, parents of children who often come to school can have a major impact on the student’s success and on regular teaching, and this should in any case be pointed out in particular. It affects children full of it. Influenced by disturbed family relationships, too little time for parents to spend with children. In fact, children are very often at home alone, often children lose their working habits, sense of responsibility, and then when they lose at home and at school. In fact, children are found in a very sensitive period, 15 years is little, too little for them to be able to control themselves to be responsible, yet too many years because we see 15-year-olds also often cause problems. In fact, such children who are out of control of their parents often fall under the influence that we like to say the streets, or all those homeless people who hang around them and explain to them that they really shouldn’t go to school. It is certain that an analysis of the reasons why students do not enroll in high school, that this analysis can actually be of considerable help. I know, here we had our own time population, and then we found out that they were all little Slovenians. It's a Roma settlement that was near Samobor, so we've been keeping a close eye on what's going on. We managed to get only a few of those little kids to school, but they just stood there and then when they all went back to Slovenia together again, it probably wasn't anything. So, it's a population that in all of Croatia almost I don't know no, very little goes to school and I think they should be given special attention. The measures proposed may also be clear in cooperation with local self-government. That's for example. free transportation of students to high school. Here I think Samobor, but also St. Sunday together with the county have organized free transportation of students to school and I believe, even here we go, we give the same students on our own and 50% for school transport, and that's a good measure, with everything we help for example. Poor families who often complain that they don't have enough money to train them, even for prom trips, we help them wherever we can. So the cooperation with local self-government here is highlighted and I think it's justifiably highlighted because it can also be very quality. Free textbooks that go back to elementary school, I think they're certainly a good idea, no matter what someone says, they get rich and poor, but they're always stories that can break this, but most students even because of the poorest good that they're all going to be, that they don't turn out to be just now you're the poorest here's the textbooks, we offer you the complexes that you'll get. So that's very good and it's good that here's the plan for high school. Little by little, we're going to go to the fact that the students, and that way, those who might be in the most difficult social situation, are attracted to school. Surely, homes can help us, accommodations in homes that need as much as possible to expand. It is necessary to make up for the lost time of those overly narrow specializations and, but there are requalifications as far as the economy is concerned. However, the interest is not great. A small ratio, perhaps, would be convenient to point out between employees or unemployed and those looking for a job. They wouldn't believe it, that ratio is great for those who don't ask for a job and are on the desk. And if they're employed, I'm not talking about people who wait maybe a year, two pensions, but about a lot of people who, who might be working, who could get a job, who could be requalified, they're neatly on the employment bureaus, but they're not looking for a job because they work somewhere else or I don't know, I guess this way is better for them. So I believe that the high school in this plan will certainly attract students and will qualify them for a normal life or that they will do what they want to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90938	Thank you. Dear Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90939	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! My brief debate would be directed towards the fact that the proposal for measures leading to the introduction of compulsory secondary education is one project that is very important for the Republic of Croatia in terms of the realization of the idea that we are all seeking and about which there is absolutely a consensus, which is a knowledge society. I would like to inform you that a very interesting round table was held in Berlin a few days ago in Bundestag, a debate inviting the presidents of the Parliamentary Committee on Science, Research and Higher Education from all member states of the European Community and candidate countries. And in this very extensive and interesting debate I was talking about some of Croatia's efforts to get involved in this knowledge society, so I was talking about HNOS, I was talking about an external evaluation of education, I was talking about the Bologna Process. However, two topics have raised a particular interest, which is a lifelong education, and this particular project is a mandatory one, or measure that tends to be introduced by compulsory high school. In this debate, something that is a little bit said about here, which was only mentioned by colleague Roksandić, which is the big consequences of such a project in the field of the labour market. In fact, such a single project, such measures lead to significant changes in the labour market, absolutely in a positive way. On the one hand, it's the most banal change that these boys, young men 15, 16, 17 years old, are no longer on the street after completing primary school practically without any crafts or tools to say. On the other hand, in one meaningful and organised way precisely through these orientations, let us call it complementary or compulsory secondary education and create personnel that can meet certain needs of the economy and certain other business entities that are sometimes in deficit situations, while these young people I say sit in cafes and do practically nothing. If it were nothing more than that, that shift I think this project, this vision is a measure of great importance and significance. I wouldn't have clearly looked too much at some of the topics that were presented in the discussion. They're all certainly very useful. However, I would look back, he would only react to one remark. It was an observation of the so-called “. ” publicity. Gentlemen and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues! At a time when these young men, a good day, when these young men and these girls are constantly exposed to one bombing of promiscuous messages that go towards the most awesome thing in the world to cheer up with a bottle of "March" or "Carlovsky" beer or other I would say perhaps even the most problematic of promiscuous pressures, such a promotion that is discreetly but very nice, finely reported to those children what knowledge is, that it stimulates them to go according to knowledge, to go towards some processing of their own personalities. I don't think it can be doubtful in any way and that such a promotion is not any promotion of either the Ministry or the Minister or the Government, but something that is directed towards these children and that perhaps, in this chaos of promotional messages they receive, it can still bring one line that points to some possibility, to some nobleness and value of knowledge. Just one more remark. It's that remark that applies to those who won't. On that negative, possible negative charge. I don't think apriori should focus on those who won't, but on those who will. That's what I think matters, and that's what all this is about. There will always be all those who won't, who don't want school, who don't want to know and who are problematic and who are causing the incident, etc. But I don't think in any way we can allow this topic to distract us from the subject of those who will, who need it, who need it. It is clear that everything must be done that even those who will not in some way receive one treatment that will allow them to be socialised, that they too in some way fit in, but I say would never be dominated by negative topics, that they dominate topics that are problematic, but that we should focus on what is positive, valuable, and what can really contribute to Croatia a little, a little bit becoming what we all want and that is what I say society and land of knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90940	Thank you. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90941	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Well, not long ago on television, we could watch Minister Primorac convincingly say mandatory high school education has been introduced since the 9th month of this year. We now have materials from which it is obvious that high school, compulsory secondary education will not really be since the 9th month, and those who have known the education system in the Republic of Croatia knew from the very beginning that the introduction of compulsory secondary education in two months or three months simply is not possible. And starting from the education structure of our citizens according to the population list when we faced a very high, inadmissible percentage of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have completed their mid-term training, it is of course that a single assessment and a unique opinion in the Republic of Croatia is that we must raise the educational structure of our citizens. And this need to raise the education structure of our citizens is not the discovery of this government. Of course, the previous governments were going in the same direction and thinking in the same direction. Now that we have this material in front of me, I don't belong to an optimistic group that thinks that the obligation of high school education will be introduced as quickly as these measures provide, especially as the mere explanation of this material is somewhat contradictory in itself. There is talk of compulsory high school education, and then it is said to be based on a series of incentive measures. Voluntaryness and obligation are mutually excluded, so we need to know what we want, but I could conclude that the desire of this government and this ministry is so that as many citizens or as many citizens as possible are told that, to approach at least secondary education. So, in my view, these measures listed here are quite general, not elaborated, there is no dynamic, and in particular there is no visible financial resources, so I am experiencing the same thing as some colleagues and colleagues here today who have said that this is really a list of beautiful desires that have nothing to object to, however, of course I also need financial resources that depend on some other factors rather than our wishes. So, above all, it depends on how much the economic power of the Republic of Croatia will be and what the sources of funding for the state budget will be, and then of course on the political will that this political will will want to target the funds for this purpose. I expect and believe that these political wills will be, but now I am not sure that we will have so many opportunities that we will develop economically so well that these sources of funding will be so rich that they can cover those needs because material needs are also needed to achieve this desire. It is finely stated what has been done here, how many schools have been built, etc., but we don't really have a view of our needs, we don't know how much school we need to build new schools, how much we need to build existing schools, we don't have a picture of how much we need homes and especially because I live in a region that is evident based on statistical data, the most underdeveloped region in the Republic of Croatia, of course I am looking at all this from the aspect of the standards of our citizens and I would argue that at least with me in the region is the fundamental and basic reason why the high number of children remain at home exactly the material state of their families. I would really like to see, I would like to see those families that thank God still live in our villages, protecting our culture, tradition, etc., but they are becoming an insurmountable problem of paying a bus ticket to the city where high school centres are located. Here today it was heard, I know it was so that aiding or co-financing of those costs was given to local communities and regional communities. However, if we keep in mind the budgets of these municipalities, if we keep in mind the budget of these counties, then we will see that it is not possible for the regional and local community to co-finance the departure of costs. Especially with me in my county of 16,000 unemployed, or 17,000 unemployed, over 50% of those unemployed are citizens who have completed high school training. Now, in my opinion, that information is in a certain way and demoting. I agree that it takes advertising to get into the awareness of the need for schooling. Of course, though, one who attends school and invests in school that he wants to see at the end of that school trip. Whether he stands by the Employment Service, and if he stands by the Employment Service then it is not motivated and therefore reading these materials here says that the criteria of enrolment in high school are will, success in primary schools, the tendency of candidates. I might point out the need to include labour market needs as much as possible. I'd like to see, say, one programme, one strategy, so just if you want the economic development of the Republic of Croatia that will predict exactly what direction development is going to take and what forecasts, which are the personnel to what extent we're actually going to educate our citizens for our own needs, not to educate these citizens, and then these citizens are going to Italy and I don't know where they're going. So, what we've invested on our citizens' taxes, we've invested in their education, these citizens end up going abroad for profit, and we, in certain categories or qualifications, are missing workers, we issue work permits. I don't think that's good. Furthermore, I advocate that at the beginning of school, in fact, every child starts from the same starting positions. So, as we want to secure from that position during school, I think that we should also prepare for school alone, so now that we see that preschool education and education that I don't say kindergartens are also in this education system and prepare these children for equality in education. I'd like to think a little bit about kindergartens. It is said here that in 2006, 15 new kindergartens were opened in 15 municipalities of Sisak-Moslavina, Brod-Posavia and Karlovac County. In 3 counties, 15 new kindergartens were opened, not much, but also 15 more than none. However, we know that the cost of functioning kindergartens... Their founders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These kindergartens can be privately owned, can be owned by locals, cities and municipalities. Is our municipalities in spite of the wish, because I am starting from the fact that it is undisputed and uncontestable for all of us that in kindergarten, a child prepares for schooling and is already working on this preschool program and thus already makes it a step ahead of those children who do not go through kindergartens. So it should be our goal for all our children to actually go through kindergartens. They're already getting these habits through kindergartens, not to say schooling and education, but that requires making assumptions. If the municipality has to finance as founder, it has to finance kindergarten and it is not able to what can the state do? What the state can do to facilitate co-financing in kindergartens so that we can make our children the same prerequisites for getting preschool knowledge. Furthermore, the big problem in elementary school has already been pointed out here several times today, and that is that we have children going into three shifts in primary school, and that our goal is one shift. What can be done there is also not very optimistic despite the fact that a lot of schools have been built in the last seven years. But what I think is an even bigger problem, which is the lack of teaching staff right in the villages. Because, of course, for good education, an appropriate professional frame is needed. If we look at the structure of teachers in these rural elementary schools, Mr. Secretary of State, I know you agree with me, we'll see it's unsatisfactory. So there's a whole series of problems that need to be removed. I'm not sure we can remove them at this short notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90942	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90943	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's to correct my colleague that it's not true that the local community can't co-finance student transportation. First of all, I mean county. But it's a matter of priority. County can decide this or that. As far as small poor municipalities are concerned, unfortunately, they have very few students. Well, these few students can co-finance. I can only tell you that there are cities that have 3.4 times less budget than ours, let's say my city can say so, and they have twice as many employees in the headship. Well, according to that, I don't think we should comment much further.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90944	Replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90945	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State with an associate, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here I am, with my colleague Lalic, I'm just going to try to polymize about the desire that all the students are actually all children from the same starting positions. I have to say, this is Utopia for now, and the differences are huge, huge. Unfortunately, it's divided into several segments. First of all, kindergartens that are in the local community say all the burden or the parents. If parents are materially situationed that they can pay, if not, there's nothing. If the local community is a poor negligent to secure there is therefore no niche, there is no State involved. Further school, one-way classes, illusions, and just trying to figure out how many of them are going on, so if the local community helps, the state still has a chance to do it. About HNOS not even telling you where it's being spent the way we meet and we know it. Integrated, integrated teaching in nature is all nicely said but not funded. If the parent has the means and if the children are materially secured that, if not, only HNOS remains not implemented. So it's such a situation that we're talking about wishes and we didn't support them materially. And that's why I agree with Miss Lalić that we must now make a material effort and secure the means to achieve all this together. And if you could still do that to Mr. Markovanovic, even if it's not a replica right now. As far as the local community is concerned, it may be included in the transport of students and students anyway... if there is money, however, in such a fiscal division where the local community gets, you know from 8 to 10 percent of the entire fiscal capacity, it is impossible to monitor everything with good will and good wishes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90946	Reply to the replica of the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90947	So I thank my colleague Kolar whose debate I greatly appreciate because he is indeed a longtime head of the municipality and that of the municipalities that are certainly not classified in the poor municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. And despite the fact that the Municipality of Molva is not classified in the poor municipalities of Kolar correctly confirms exactly what I have stated that children's kindergartens cannot finance the municipalities themselves and therefore cannot create the same starting grounds for all children in the Republic of Croatia. I hope the Kolar Ministry recognizes it, so I hope the funds come from the state budget on their way out because here I heard, I don't know, in the correction of so-called. My guilty claim that a few children can be financed. It is not a few children, but a kindergarten requires its apparatus as prescribed by law. And as for colleague Kolar of this free transport that would co-finance local communities. I agree absolutely with you. With me in my Slavonia, it's not a rare example that we have municipalities that have the original budget below millions of kunas. Since we have legal obligations that municipalities must finance, so it is not political will to give priority, what will be financed? But what is prescribed by law must be financed. And then when it's funded by the law, there's no means to finance bus tickets, despite the goodwill. Let's not open the subject of concessions now, concessions, the solidarity of carriers and all that these kids are going through on the road. This simply needs to find a place to think and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education should think about how to handle children's transportation without using the services of some non-solid carriers. But they have some places to drive their vans, so when they have a few kids in a village, of course there won't be a school for those few kids, but these few kids can't be exposed to all the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90948	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Same fate. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90949	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Assistant Minister. Here's what I'd like to say after the debate I had on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS about the reality of this program that is here before us and whose... which is the topic of our debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fundamental objection to this programme is that it is not clear how many countries are willing and able to invest in primary and secondary schools so that primary and secondary schools can work on one shift. That's a fundamental, fundamental question. In Croatia's national development plan for the education and education system 2005-2010 as the main goal of course that there are other things in this programme and plan, but I will try to talk about those provisions of this plan that are measurable, which is that by the end of the term of office, the Minister will not have any schools working in 3 shifts. Knowing the slightly better situation in Zagreb, we do not have a full report here, it is absolutely impossible to expect. Several elementary schools are being built in Zagreb. They should be completed by the beginning of the next school year, so by September of this year, somewhere when the mandate of this government is nearly completed, at least this term of Mr. Minister, but there is no talk about having the strength to have all schools working on two shifts, and especially the problematic achievement of other very important announcements from this National Programme, which is that by 2010, at least half of our primary schools will be working on one shift. Both of them require very large investments, so the question of how, with this kind of parallel growth of the budget, we will be able to achieve this ambition, this material side of our reform of education, that is, to improve the situation in our primary and secondary education. In order to achieve a minister's announcement that all schools will work in two shifts during his term of office, 60 primary schools need to be upgraded. As far as I know the pace of building this hour in the Republic of Croatia, the upgrade of these schools is absolutely not such that such a thing could happen. And in order to achieve another announcement that is much more demanding in this regard, which is an announcement that by 2010, half of primary schools will have to work in one shift to upgrade the additional 400 primary schools. And in order to achieve the first goal, it is necessary to provide about a billion kuna, part of it being provided but I am convinced that it will not be sufficient to achieve that goal, and it is particularly difficult to expect without a significant increase in the ministry's budget in the coming years to achieve a second goal. In order to achieve the second goal, it takes about 5 billion kuna, and I am, of course, telling me the data that I have met, more to deal with these issues, of course, that the Ministry should present these issues much better so that, apart from seeing how much investment is in schools, which is something in this National Programme. It would be good to have a full report as late as it is this year, the school is expected to work at 3rd and 2nd shifts, respectively. What is the current situation, and what are the financial projections? When these financial projections are gone, then of course, we are left with representatives to try to figure it out ourselves. I, speaking on behalf of the club, mentioned the data, my assessment, of course, that it cannot be as relevant as the assessment or data of the Ministry itself could be that it should actually be allocated an additional 5 billion kuna per year. This means that the Ministry's budget for all segments and primary education and secondary education and for higher education and science should be 50% higher than it is now. This would put the Republic of Croatia on a European average in terms of national education and science separation. It would therefore be necessary to increase the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports by 5 billion kuna, in order to find themselves somewhere on the European average according to the state allocations for this entire complex. And that, as you know, is big money and it's hard to expect that in the following year our budget for the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports would be increased by as much as 5 billion kuna. Until we do, it is difficult to expect at all that we could be close to achieving this ambitious plan from the National Development Plan of the system of education and education, especially if we want to be even faster than this plan says. Otherwise, the Croatian People's Party programmes in this regard say that all schools in the Republic of Croatia would work in one shift over the next term. Of course, it also takes a lot of investment that I was talking about. But if we are not able to achieve it then it is hard to expect that we will also have other elements of this program that also require an increase in the separation that they will be realised. This programme does not say at all that secondary schools should also work on a shift, or it is not said as part of the measures that should be implemented. It is said in principle that we should increase, improve the material standard of our secondary schools. But if we really want to raise the quality of work in high schools, then high schools should work on one shift. If we're just going to increase the number of high school students by about 20% as much as our people today, our students who don't go to high school are supposed to mean if we're going to keep the same classes of increasing the number of schools, or the space of our classrooms by 20%. It's a huge investment in itself. And not to say that if we want all high schools to work on one shift so that a simple calculation should double their number, increase their capacity, and then you can think about what kind of investments they're investing in. So these are issues that really remain open. Not to mention that all other requirements that are proposed here and measures such as individual work, such as teaching teachers, etc. they also require no small material resources. Speaking of this programme and what is today's situation in secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia should be said that, when it comes to the Croatian national educational standard, its experimental phase etc. It's mostly about elementary schools. But the Croatian national educational standard of course should also be set for secondary schools. With this Croatian national educational standard, he is also late for high school, and there are particularly many difficulties in vocational schools that are much more than there are in some general high schools, these are our high school. So it is much more difficult for them to set a Croatian national or any other educational standard, a pedagogical standard. And we're just here at the beginning. And the state high school graduation scheduled for two years, so the first generation last year passed national exams as a preparation for the state's graduation. And that state's graduation is scheduled for vocational schools with a year of delay. And, of course, it is in that segment because of the large number of students attending those high schools, and that is why it is really a question of the feasibility of this programme. I was saying, by replicating one fellow representative, that only in September last year were two bodies founded, the highest administrative institutions that should not only be created, designed but also followed by the implementation of these highest pedagogical requirements and standards. It is the National Curricula Council in all three segments of education: pre-school, primary and secondary. Likewise, the Pedagogical Standard Council. And these bodies, in my opinion, are the assumption that they would go into any kind of such major procedure and change at all, should be based at the beginning rather than at the end of what they are, which represents that process. Otherwise, as far as this process is concerned, if it can be claimed that we are in terms of HNOS for primary schools at the end of the process and assessing quality...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90950	Please. Please... [[Intruder: Make it over.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90951	Not estimating the quality of this process, so nominally it is claimed that at the end of that process for primary schools, we are far from the end of that process...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90952	A fellow Radosh! We've already run out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90953	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90954	We've run out of time already.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90955	So why don't you tell me?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90956	Well...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90957	I apologize and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90958	Please, yes. Final Review State Secretary Željir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90959	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, everyone who participated in the debate on the National Programme of Measures for the introduction of mandatory secondary education. Since this national programme is subject to the rules on the law in the second reading, I hope that you have also submitted certain amendments, so we will consider them and show ourselves when the national programme is voted on. Let me take a quick look at these few discussions we've had since 15 hours. The issue of professional information was mentioned here by the respected representative Markovanovic, who stressed the need for good professional information. And we are certainly here in one of the measures predicted that the Croatian Employment Service is having its activities well carried out in our primary schools, that it now lowers into seventh grade, so not only in eighth grade. And the reason is that the students need to be helped, along with their parents, to have children choose the one that they have the most affection for. And if he finds himself in that profession that he really has the most proclivity for, then it is a guarantee that he will well end that educational program that he chose and will not, or it is a small possibility that he will leave his education before the end of that program he wrote. Professor Selem talked about publicity, and that's also mentioned in club debates. I must especially stress here that these are the last days of teaching for students of eight classes, that our secondary school with the propaganda of enrolment went to primary schools where they offer programs of our secondary schools to students who finish eighth grade, that the ministry in primary schools has sent brochures with all the data on programs offered in secondary schools in the entire Republic of Croatia. There is also a decision on enrolment in that brochure. The brochure also includes the elements and criteria for enrolment in high school. This time we printed brochures for each student of eight classes, which has never been the case before, precisely wanting to sensitize students and their parents to certainly continue secondary education, not to lose their qualifications. And we are confident that it will certainly give success. However, we also started with videos where we call on students to enter secondary schools and talk about all the encouraging measures, which we wrote in our national programme on the third page, let me briefly quote: "Introducing a country's obligation instead of forcing a series of incentives measures, and above all by informing, teaching and sensitising the Croatian public about the importance and need of obtaining secondary education." And finally let me just take a brief look at the programs that are much mentioned here. So, a lot of new programs have been made in order to offer students a wider range of programs in which they will be found. We've offered from programs that last four years, three years, and these two-year programmes that last one year. So we tried in cooperation with, not only the Croatian Employment Service but also with the economy to develop such programs that really need the labour market, stressing that all of these students who enter short-term programmes can, under certain conditions, achieve a hairy transition or passing different exams and continue education in some more demanding programme. Furthermore, the possibility of lifelong learning has been opened. So the completion of certain programmes in the adult education system. Our goal is fundamental, so that every student who enters the system of education, who is enrolled in the first grade of primary school, should definitely enroll in high school, choose the profession he wants and finish it, and that the number of students who will not get to qualifications will be as small as possible. Of course, we would be the happiest if there were not any students who would lose their qualifications. And finally, let us, of course, accept the suggestion given here by the President of the Croatian Parliament that we will bring to the Assembly Committee on Finance and the State Budget a form of assessment of the financial impact of all these measures for this year and the next three years and I will only briefly remind myself that there are encouraging measures relating to the procurement of textbooks for first-class students this year 2007/2008, for transportation and accommodation to dormitories. I will briefly repeat this year, as the minister pointed out in his opening presentation, so 77 and a half million kuna for textbooks, 26 million kuna for transportation and 49 million and 600 thousand kuna for accommodation in student homes. One part of this three and a half months refers to first - grade students and that amount is only about 10 million kuna in total. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90960	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a national programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education. I am voting on the National Programme proposal. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 69 for, 12 abstentions and 4 against the proposed National Programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90963	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen of the council. Here is a strategy for migration policy, one of the documents that should be presented in writing by the Croatian Parliament on the need for orderly management of migration flows. In view of the importance of migration flows in the modern world and their impact on the economic, security, cultural and political life of each country, as well as the Republic of Croatia, this document sets out guidelines for achieving pre-arranged management of migration flows. The migration policy strategy seeks, the migration policy aims to provide for the necessary steps in the area of legislation and practices in the area of migration, in particular to determine the competences and tasks of individual national authorities in order to carry out quality and effective action. Certain measures and activities in this strategy have already been made and done, so they were here in the Assembly yesterday to discuss two fundamental laws governing the matter of migration. It's the Foreign Law and the Asylum Act. Those two laws were backed. They have been assessed as high-quality draft laws and are certainly a good contribution, i.e. a good basis for designing and implementing good and quality migration policy in the Republic of Croatia. We are all witnessing that forms of migration, that countries that are the starting points of migration, which are peace of migration, are eventually changing. There have been significant changes and therefore it is also necessary to come up with a migration policy strategy which will meet the needs of the Republic of Croatia, which will also be in line with the acquis and standards of the European Union. What has been characteristic of migration lately is a significant increase in the number of illegal migrations that have two basic forms, human trafficking and human trafficking. The European Union encourages and promotes legal migration aimed at meeting the needs of the labour market in line with demographic changes in these countries and surely Croatia must seek to regulate migration flows precisely in accordance with these principles. This strategy cites the causes of migration, emerging forms of migration, the outcome of the strategy for the common migration policy and asylum policy in the European Union, the principles of migration policy in the Republic of Croatia and its constituents. In the assessment of the state of migration in the Republic of Croatia, the following areas have been assessed: the territory of Croatian citizenship, entry, stay and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, foreign currency policy, asylum, foreign integration and illegal migration. In the Republic of Croatia, the trend that exists in Western Europe is becoming increasingly felt. Migration movements of high-speed persons, qualified workers and businessmen also appear to be disproportionate between supply and demand in the labour market or inability to find a suitable profile of workers on the domestic labour market. No less important because of negative demographic trends is the ageing of the population. The Republic of Croatia could very soon face a crisis of pension funds and therefore it is really important to design and implement a quality migration policy that will benefit the Republic of Croatia. The most common causes of migration are economic, social, political and humanitarian. As a result, international migration appears mostly in three forms: legal or free migrations that are being encouraged, forced migrations where people flee or as individuals in fear of persecution or massively because of fears of human rights violations and illegal migration which are a major problem of the European Union and which are certainly to be fought and the measures provided for in this migration policy strategy or the laws to be adopted. Particular attention should be paid to the complex relationship between migration and economic development, and it is evident that there is a growing demand for labour in Europe, while at the same time societies in most European countries are getting older, and so does Croatia. The principles on which migration management policy should be based are: the principle of legality, the principle of integration, the principle of security of the state and the population and the principle of international cooperation. The migration management strategy should be seen as a whole to be applied over a longer period of time and the basis of migration policy should be respect for human rights or respect for foreigners in accordance with the highest standards. In 2004, the European Union institutions assessed the results of a five-year period based on the implementation of the conclusions... 1999. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to the European Parliament and the European Commission, a greater priority in setting future targets should be given to the integration of legal migrants, as a huge increase in human trafficking and illegal migration is closely linked to the lack of legal ways to allow migrants to enter the European labour market. This is exactly what this Strategy, as well as the law that was already in the House, will have to be passed to adopt these highest standards. It is based on the migration policy of the Republic of Croatia. Intensification of the migration movements of people around the world who have not bypassed and the Republic of Croatia has created the need to adopt a full migration policy in the Republic of Croatia to determine the existing situation, but also to define the measures that need to be taken to regulate migration movements. The legislation on asylum and migration needs to be fully harmonised with the acquis of the European Union. As I was saying, I think yesterday we all realized that the proposed laws were on track and would establish high standards. Similarly, there is a need for a new legislation on Croatian citizenship. The European focus of the Republic of Croatia is reflected in the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and a series of other international documents from which certain obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the design and implementation of migration policy arise. The cornerstones of migration policy in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the principles of international solidarity, the implementation of active migration policy in relations with neighbouring countries in Central and South-Eastern Europe as well as in the wider European area, the regulation of migration, the full protection of assistance to refugees and asylum seekers, the integration of legal migrants into Croatian society, the focus on the possibility of voluntary return of illegal migrants to countries of origin and systematic monitoring of migration movements in the Republic of Croatia and the world. The basic principles of the migration policy of the Republic of Croatia are the principle of respect and protection of human rights and freedoms, the principle of state responsibility, the principle of solidarity of international burden-sharing and accountability, the principle of long-term macroeconomic benefit, the principle of historical responsibility built on the concept of continuity of history and the protection of national interests, the principle of equality of freedom and mutual participation. It is evident from this that indeed migration policy has several strategic objectives for the Republic of Croatia and that through it, through the Strategy I would also say development, future development of society as a whole. Of course, the strategy, i.e. the measures resulting from it, is complex, they are competent, that several state institutions of the non-governmental sector and various other segments of society are competent, so that this policy can be implemented. I will only count those most important obligations, i.e. the most important institutions involved in the implementation of migration policy. This is the creation of a prerequisite for the establishment of a population register, one of the most important activities for which the State Statistics Office will be responsible. Then the amendment of the Law on Croatian Citizenship, I have already said, is in preparation, and these two laws are already in the process and will probably be adopted. Then strengthening the ability of administrative structures, which at the national local level decide to enter and stay foreigners by regulating their residence and asylum requirements, achieving the coordinated work of diplomatic missions, or consulates, because quality implementation of this migration policy must be a necessary and quality work of embassies and consulates. Then, adapting the terms of immigration to the Republic of Croatia, the needs of the Croatian labour market. You have also seen that this is foreseen by the Foreign Law to take care of the needs of the Croatian market when designing a policy towards foreigners and through ensuring their entry and stay in the Republic of Croatia. All upgrades to the asylum system to ensure adequate protection of refugees because it is already said that the forms of migration change from day to day, that they accept different forms, that migrations occur in changing directions. And that is why the strategy needs to be complemented and perfected over and over again. Next, a comprehensive analysis of the situation on the labour market, which is very important in order to recognise their needs, establish and improve bilateral or multilateral cooperation with countries of origin of transit and destinations, commit foreigners to the procedure of granting permanent stay and obtaining Croatian citizenship to Croatian, Croatian language courses and a series of other measures that all together need to make one thought-out strategy, i.e. designed migration policy. I hope from this strategy that Croatia is anticipating all events in the European Union above all, that we have tried to design this strategy, or propose a policy that will ensure the needs of the Republic of Croatia while respecting the highest standards in the protection of migrants, or foreigners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90964	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? No, I don't. Committee on Immigration, Chairman of the Committee, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90965	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament discussed on the 35th session held on 20 June of this year the Proposal for a Strategy for the Migration Policy of the Republic of Croatia for 2007-2008 by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 4 June of this year. The Committee discussed the final draft law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 79. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and as a parent working body. The applicant's representative met the members of the Committee with reasons and interests which led to the conclusion of Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. Foreign law The Government must propose to the Croatian Assembly a migration policy strategy every two years. The committee representative presented to the Committee members the main aspects of migration policy for the rest of this year and for the following year. He pointed out that, in addition to the general principles of the 2007 and 2008 Migration Policy Strategy, the proposal sets out measures and operators for the implementation of the migration policy, which is partly determined by the Law on Foreigners and the Law on Asylum. This migration policy regulates the areas of acquisition of citizenship, entry, stay and work of foreigners, temporary stay, work and business permits, daily migration, visa policy, asylum, foreign integration and the return of illegal immigrants. In the debate followed by the board members, they said the proposal for a migration policy strategy is better than those that have come to the Croatian Parliament before, but have seen that it does not include a segment relating to Croats in the world. One of the goals of Croatian migration policy should also be to encourage the return of Croatian emigrants and their descendants. Inhabiting offspring is especially desirable because their integration does not require significant resources, and the inputs of knowledge and other investments and know Croatian language. All MPs have voiced confidence that the title of the Migration Policy Strategy itself is pretentious because it is a programme of migration policy for a little over a year. The proposal called the Migration Policy Strategy is only an operational programme, a technical document for one year of the National Migration Policy Programme. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the next conclusion. The proposal for a migration policy strategy for 2007 and 2008 is adopted in the text as proposed by the proposer with the next amendment. Title of document Proposal for a migration policy strategy of the Republic of Croatia for 2007/2008 The year is changed and it reads: "The immigration policy of the Republic of Croatia for 2007/2008. a year with an explanation, it cannot be called a migration policy programme strategy limited to a little more than a year." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90966	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of the HNS, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90967	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I'll start with the title, too. And I couldn't agree more, and so the members of the HNS Club agree that the title should be changed. The strategy of colleagues and colleagues is one long-term policy in a particular area. The project is even a multi-year work programme in some area. This can't even be a project. This is some sort of basic program for a school year of seven, eight. This text of a colleague and a colleague with this title has very little to do with 70% of the content, and in the remaining 30% of the content does not have much to do with logic. In fact, it is clear to all colleagues and colleagues that the characteristics of our society are demographic extinction. That's what I hope we all agree. If that's the case, then we have to run one stimulating and proactive immigration policy. Immigration policy. How much in this text so-called. strategies we have immigration policies based on the real needs of the Croatian economy, on its development policy, I have managed to find almost nothing. I was hoping to find this under points 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4. In content, these points are called: The foundations of the migration policy of the Republic of Croatia, the principle of migration policy and the components of migration policy. Give it a good one, and open these two pages and nine verses relating to these three subtitles. Try to find something related to those subtitles. You're not gonna make it. And with your best wishes, you won't succeed. Even the text starts like this. By intensifying the migration movements of people around the world, otherwise the entire text refers to the principles of the UN, the European Union, the Council of Europe, the cosmopolitan approach, which did not bypass the Republic of Croatia, the need to adopt a full migration policy in the Republic of Croatia, which will determine the existing situation, but also define measures and activities. It's said colleagues and colleagues believe or not in future times, in futur. When, who, for what purpose? ... I agree, Mr. Kovacevic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You don't know. A stranger. And we call it the Migration Policy Strategy. We at the HNS club insist that this text really adapts to the real needs of the immigration policy of the Republic of Croatia, which will be based on the country's development policy. We ask you, it's a minimum of decency. This text is also humiliating to those who have proposed it, demeaning it for those of us who have to consider it, humiliating it for the Republic of Croatia, to communicate at this level and to call on some European documents. We all probably work at our clubs to analyze these needs. Well, colleagues and colleagues, we all know that the greatest demand for labour is in the category VKV, KV and... labour force. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't even find a short-term policy according to those categories of workers. We all know that and we swear on a society of knowledge. Are we here to find elements connected by trying to get as many highly qualified people in Croatia as possible? When Germany needed an informer, their Parliament said, as of tomorrow, seven thousand ITs will allow immigration, let it take place in Germany, because the development of Germany depends on them. Which way do we want to go? Who do we want him to come and move to Croatia for? We colleagues and colleagues, we didn't find any of this in this material. And I wouldn't be here much longer, I really wouldn't be longer, but we can't support this material by chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90968	Thank you. A SDP representative club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90969	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Well, I've also asked myself a similar question, as we can see from the very report of the board of directors and colleagues from the CNS, why are we actually bringing this document? I have tried to see or learn at least from the State Secretary's presentation whether there is any formal reason, some request from the European Union or someone to bring in such a document, and then I would support what it says here in this proposal for a document called the migration policy strategy. However, since such an external formal reason for adopting such a strategy is not particularly in this form, it may be best if the Government withdraws such a document and provides us with an incomparably better-quality strategy proposal for such an important area as the issue of migration and, in particular, immigration in the Republic of Croatia. I am in agreement with my colleagues and predecessors who have warned that between what is in most of this document, there is therefore not a single word or very difficult, and we would have to work very hard to find a link to what is, which should be some sort of content of this document, the main content. These are measures and activities for the implementation of migration policy. I would not now like to make a mockery of the document or in any way diminish the efforts of anyone but to go with the formulations of strengthening the ability of administrative structures, strengthening the ability of administrative structures, or saying that diplomatic missions, or consular offices, ministers, and so on, of other state bodies are being achieved. Well, raising coordinated work isn't a matter of strategy. Well, that's, that's the thing to say that goes without saying. Permanent system build-up, building full analysis, setting up cooperation is not, of course, elements that might suggest that we really have some kind of strategy and even less that we have a vision of what we really want to achieve in this area, we want to analyse. In fact, the first assessment that we will get a document of this kind is seen already from the fact that the proposal for this strategy here in the Croatian Parliament represents on behalf of the Government says Ivica Kirin, Minister of the Interior, Buconjic State Secretary and Zarko Katić, assistant, all from the Ministry of the Interior. Well, it's as if this issue is exclusively about asylum, as if this issue is exclusively about negative migration, as if this issue is exclusively about human trafficking. This is a completely puzzling and wrong approach to something that serious European countries are discussing in a very serious and qualified way in Europe. It is therefore not good and from this fact itself to know that in Croatia, in fact, no one cares about migration policy. We had an immigration ministry in the 1990s. Motivation for its formation was something different from what modern European countries have. It was both specific circumstances and so on. However, there is no one in Croatia who will systematically take care of what is going to happen to us in Croatia over the next few years. We have the truth, we have the Institute of Migration. In this strategy, this scientific institute has not been mentioned in a single word, nor have we seen a reference to any research project by that institute. We're lucky to have him. But the first measure if we are to talk about strategy and even for this year and next should be to set up, for example, the Government Office for Migration. Well, from this very point on, the colourful actors involved in this whole story have shown that it is a complex matter that cannot be covered by the Ministry of the Interior. It is simply not in human resources, nor is it to say so in my own, in my determination of my habitat, my mission defined to deal with these issues. Except marginally. So when it comes to more or less negative aspects of migration within Europe. I found it very interesting to read the opening part in which some historical references are being made, and it seems to me that it is very well recognised that it was actually happening with migrations in Europe and especially in Southeast Europe from somewhere in the early 20th century to our day. Indeed, the nature of migration has changed greatly. Countries that were primarily and eminently emigration areas now become immigration space. It's been waiting for us for two years. The moment we enter the European Union, there is no dispute that what is now only in signs is present that it will become a general or mass phenomenon to which we do not have an adequate answer. I know that the Republic of Slovakia, 4 or 5 years before its entry into the European Union, has developed an outstanding quality programme, has brought an immigration policy that I suggest to the document and to serve other people's examples. In this programme, which is applied in Slovakia, all of those, all of the stories that we had about both immigration and immigration, are clearly demystified first. There's got to be a demystification of the story. We're talking about depopulation here. We believe or hope earnestly, and then, in the context of these hopes, we also pass laws that we will increase significant birth in Croatia. No, gentlemen. All our measures will not yield the result we expect. The most we can do is stop the decline in the number of Croatians. But for a year or two, we're going to face significant shortcomings, significant restrictions in the indications, this document mentions a lack of labour force. These are some work permits tables, and business licenses already show that there is a chronic lack for individual occupations. The same thing will happen to us that happened to other countries that went through similar periods that we're going through. We don't know, we'll have a process that won't be controlled. That's not what you're talking about here. We don't blame you, Mr. Secretary of State for that. But someone in the government must have a responsibility for this kind of question waiting for us. So it is about the fact that the point that you've counted well here must be envisaged primarily, but must be behind it, there must be a strategy behind it, adapting the conditions of immigration to the Republic of Croatia, item 6, the needs of the Croatian labour market and the legal gains of the European Union. It should encourage the immigration of foreigners with the necessary qualifications, skills, work experience by giving priority to Croatian-speaking immigrants and younger age. The Slovaks even preferred certain nations, they wanted to see in Slovakia Croats, Serbs, Bulgarians, Ukrainians. In doing so, they stimulated or allowed only those who, I don't know, were up to 30, 35 years old who had higher or higher education and thus provided and protected their national interest, and we haven't even started a serious conversation on these issues yet. That's why immigration is a problem, because we with 4 and a half million inhabitants can't expect to be able to achieve the current level of social development that we have on, with the active population we now have, with demographic trends that we have which means aging the population, we have to turn to both migration policy and control this process, not to have the inflow of the population through illegal migration which will certainly happen to us or through asylum against which I don't have anything of course. So, the Honorable Representative of the Government, the first thing I want to suggest is to pass on to those to whom you must convey that Croatia needs a strategy and migration policy, and that this document is not. Secondly, we need a long-term strategy. We need to see what we do in 10 or 15 years. we must have a look at the future, and it cannot be had unless there are valid and quality analytical bases. We must have overlooked these demographic trends and trends that will happen, they must be the basis of such a strategic document. That's the first one. Secondly, what I suggest is also to get under emergency already with the formation of the new government, I know that the composition of the ministries will change, etc. Because this division won't be able to stay, we're going to have to introduce it, I'm already announcing it, and this is one office, the Migration Office, or what we're going to call it the Immigration Office, or we're going to see its name. And thirdly, I really can't like my predecessor on behalf of the SDP club to support under this name this document because it doesn't even match the title doesn't match the content of what's here. It would be more appropriate to call it the "Government Action Programme", I don't know, "in matters of emigration in the Republic of Croatia for 2007 and 2008", it would be much more appropriate even though these are not measures in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90970	Thank you. SDSS representative club, respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90971	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I suppose, Mr. President, that you remember one Presidency of this House when we discussed the proposed Strategy for the Migration Policy of the Republic of Croatia and when we agreed that it is necessary not to work it out but that it is necessary for this Parliament, in cooperation with the relevant ministries, to prepare some kind of position for the development of the Strategy for the Migration Policy of the Republic of Croatia. And at that point, you suggested that the vice-president of Mrs. Vesna Pusic's parliament be the one to coordinate the work on our behalf. From what we've got, I guess, I'm free to conclude that none of us have actually been consulted in any way on this issue. I'm not saying that the presidency's position was very binding, but at that point, it seemed important to the matter we're dealing with, well. But... Yeah, I don't know if the vice president did anything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I know she's organized a meeting on the subject. And I don't know what the conclusions were, the results were expensive. Especially for the competent ministry and the task force involved. But after hearing a colleague from the HNS, a colleague from the SDP, I could actually just say that I agree with them that this material is not well-named, that we cannot actually discuss the Proposal for a Strategy of the Migration Policy of the Republic of Croatia because this material is not. This is a kind of work material that I don't know what to call it. I, Mr. President, am free on behalf of the SDSS Club and the Secretary of State suggest that it be returned to work. Because this can't be the subject of a serious debate. Indeed. We're missing basic facts here on the basis of which we could lead the debate. What's our demographic potential? What's our demographic deficit? What are our demographic objectives based on which we could show our Strategy for Migration, Immigration Policy must be so and so? It's not there. These facts as regards the status of foreigners, work permits, etc. Of course they're precious. And we think it's important that we have them, etc. but they are not enough for what we should actually discuss, and this is a question based on which the socio-demographic situation or the economic situation of the Republic of Croatia is determined for some model of migration policy. I'd be free to say that, compared to that earlier proposal, this proposal is somehow even more stingy. It even had some sort of theoretical or first part of it had several model theoretical concepts so that we could solve something. But now with this concept, I don't know what we could actually start? I understand that it is not easy under the circumstances in which we are today to bring the Strategy of Migration Policy. We still have an important institution, and that's the Office of Exorcists and Refugees. We still have a whole series of open issues about refugee returns, about the return of exiles. We have open issues that are on the agenda, which we still haven't solved. Of course they can't be found here. You can't see them here. The problem of refugee returns as if not understood as a question of strengthening the demographic capacity and demographic potential of the Republic of Croatia, especially in areas where the demographic deficit is obvious, visible to the naked eye. And that's not here. Why isn't there, I really don't understand it. Therefore, my proposal would be for the SDSS Club to return this material to the promoter in the process, to really engage experts who would make an adequate proposal, which could be called the Strategy for the Migration Policy of the Republic of Croatia, which would then include all the necessary parameters including the issue of refugee returns as one of the possible resources that would in some way reduce the needs for migration or, as the previous speaker said, the immigration policy of the Republic of Croatia, at least in some segment, and so we could simply have a complete picture. So, this, this document, this proposal doesn't provide any whole picture, and I don't know, so I can discuss it properly. For this reason, I repeat once again, Mr. President, I suggest that this be returned to work and that a comprehensive, valid proposal for a migration policy strategy of the Republic of Croatia come before the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90972	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90973	Thank you, Mr. President. I think you need to correct your colleague, given that he's... one sensitive thing, and that is that there is no 'let's say the appeal for the return of refugees from the territory of Croatia which is actually not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is not true because in the assessment of the state of migration in the Republic of Croatia, one of the measures of the population but also migration policy is certainly the stimulation of the return of the population from the emigrants, especially the one that left the country in the last 15 years. Therefore, it is indeed explicit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90974	The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90975	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, if this material that is in front of us, which bears the title of the proposal for a migration policy of the Republic of Croatia, is called by what case of a proposal for an immigration policy strategy, then probably the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party could support such material. However, this material does not bear a name as I have said, but bears the name of the proposal for a migration policy strategy, which actually covers only one segment, which is immigration. This cannot be called migration policy, and in particular cannot be called a strategy when it applies only to two years. Indeed, there is no basis and no analysis based on which a complete plan, programme and migration policy strategy could be drawn up. Of course, when we talk about migration policy, the fundamental question that we can ask ourselves and what we ask ourselves, the question is, do we need such a strategy? We claim it should. And if here, in the light of this material, the promoter says that larger emigrations occurred in the second half of the 19th and early 20th century, he said after World War II, and in the third wave of immigration occurred between '91. and 2001. Although we do not have the data but the basis of what is visible daily in our environments, it is evident that our citizens are increasingly going abroad looking for work and looking for the possibility of survival. These citizens keep their residence in the Republic of Croatia. However, it is hard to believe that those leaving will ever return to the Republic of Croatia again. And now by discussing this item of the agenda, it is not possible and unconnected to the previous agenda point where we have pointed out the need to raise the education structure of the population because only the higher level of education guarantees economic progress. And now that we're considering this, then we have to connect and say whether because we don't have a migration policy strategy, do we educate our citizens to go abroad and after investing in them, we're giving work effects somewhere else? Not only do we have to deal with the issue of citizens going beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. We in the Croatian peasant party think that today's government, and even the future power to come, must also deal with the issue of migration within Croatia. Today we have regions in the Republic of Croatia that are unequally developed. ... the development of the region leads to the material security of citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And because we have regions that are very poor, more and more and more often we are faced with emigration. If we go through the inhabited areas or rather some inhabited places, then we'll find with horror how many abandoned houses we have. Where are these citizens going? These citizens are heading towards centres where they expect to get a job like that so they can survive. And very often that dream doesn't come true. In these larger centres, they become social cases and they have traded their houses, their gardens for some sub-houses, basement or attic, and on the other hand we have overcrowded in target centers as they like to say and we have abandoned places and abandoned areas and abandoned regions. And this obliges us to a serious migration policy and I agree with predecessors who said that migration policy cannot be led, cannot be created only in the Ministry of the Interior. This is one segment of migration policy, because migration policy must cover both the economic aspect and the social aspect and any other aspect. So, the document ahead of us is completely unsuitable for what the title should refer to and therefore the Croatian Peasant Party club cannot accept this document, but it points to the need to adopt a migration strategy in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90976	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90977	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here we seem to be making contact with the law, and they're all actually connected and significant. So we were just talking about introducing a mandatory high school education that has a lot to do with this issue. Therefore, there is a lack of labour in Croatia, certain profiles with secondary education, but also with high education. Therefore, there actually follows one law to another and complements it. In fact, I would like to start my presentation with this document by finding my colleague Dorotee on our committee who said that it is really necessary to manage migration, not that they manage us, or that we do not adapt to events, but that we actually manage them systematically and monitor them. And when we find ourselves in that role, then we're actually conflicting with two kind of perverted approaches. On the one hand, the Croats in their long history were emigrants themselves and today they have found refuge around the world and it gives us the least right then to have any concern for the other and the different and the foreign ones, and at the same time we need to be aware that we are as much as we are and that the uncontrolled entry of people from the outside can actually be harmful, even for national security as such. We who often don't know on our way to Europe then meet a population that isn't domestic, and it seems to us at times that there are a lot of these people on the streets of these cities. However, when you look at statistics then, and also in this migration policy, it is the fact that I think of everything as 2.5% of the foreign population across Europe. Which would mean, if we stick to their standards that one Croatia with 4 and a half million inhabitants could possibly absorb up to 200 thousand people from the outside, not more. On the other hand, it is also necessary to understand the needs of the economy and therefore understand what the economy needs, which is the professional people, i.e. the workforce that is needed as such. On the other hand, it should also be borne in mind that Croatia is in its own way both a successor and a state and a state which, unfortunately for its people, has not been able to ensure for its citizens in history that economic and political both, and in a certain way, we are in a position to actually correct these injustices. If, in fact, we who have almost the same population of Croatian origins outside Croatia and Croatia at this time are, at the very least, responsible for ensuring the smooth return of these people and in a certain way relying on them as, certainly, an integral part of this one unique people. Tomorrow Croatia when it is in the European Union then Croatia will be able to be a certain way door for all these people to join the European Union, but first in Croatia and it might be good to launch some of the views I would say which would actually be an invitation for these people to return as could be the Croatian country of the desired destination,... , they like to say old end, preferred destination etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is how we would actually do and correct the injustices against the evicted Croatia. On the other hand, it is known that Croatia has problems with demographic, demographic problems and that is one reservoir to be counted on and actually rely on it, not to talk about the economy, scientific potential, cultural and any other of these people living in the world. If we look at even this document then we will see that it is a fundamental, i.e. the dynamics of migration policy based on four basic principles, which are the principles of law, such as integration, the security of the state and the population and the principle of international cooperation. Each of these principles is simultaneously covered by this relationship to Croats in the world because there is no I would say a better source for the state of Croatia than its own people, on all these elements. When we look at this document, of course, entirely, then of course I agree with my colleagues and actually we in front of our immigration committee, we agreed that it would be good if he had a different name. For what? Because we are practically half this year, we have another year, and the title of this proposal is the migration policy strategy for 2007-2008 which does not diminish the importance of this document and its value, but our opinion was that it was actually just a proposal for a migration policy or possibly a basic migration policy. Of course I'm staying with this choice from the committees we've given myself. When it comes to some small individual remarks, then I actually think it would be good for certain parts of the text to be determined more precisely according to some such as. When it comes to the knowledge of Croatian, it is only said that someone should know the Croatian language, and wouldn't it just be easy to put it, I don't know, that the question should be standardised, that is to ask to standardize the test on which to actually assess whether someone speaks or doesn't speak the language. When it comes to facilitating the reception of certain people of Croatian origin, Croatian citizenship, then it should, of course, be stressed that it is not only easier to make it easier but to actually speed up. Then, I don't know, I saw one place standing, that Croatia also took care of numerous refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina during the war. It's quite familiar and there are statistics on what this number is and it's really huge and large and then it wouldn't bother us to say and specify specific figures as such. Certainly within this strategy, that is, this document I agree with and share my opinion with the board, that it would be good to have a complete segment singled out and which would deal with these problems and therefore address Croats in the world and in a certain way offer them and invite them to Croatia. In front of this Government, that is, before this House, there may be one more systematic answer to that question, and I hope that in the next term of this government, all of which will be represented here, but it will be my pleasure one day to bring a document calling Croatia's strategy for relations with Croats in the world where this migration policy and many other issues will actually be, only one of the components in this broader relationship, about a more systematic relationship between Croatians' concerns with Croats in the world, whether it is about Croats who are not rich and have their own businesses or those who would want to go back to their end and actually die, and be buried there. These documents have other peoples, they also have Hungarians and Italians and Israel and many others, and I think it's a good way and it stands before Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90978	Thank you. Representative of the Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90979	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, we've already heard this isn't a strategy, this is an essay, and it's relatively bad and untransparently written. What is the strategy supposed to have? The strategy should first outline the situation, so what it is then should set goals where we would like to go and then find ways to achieve these goals. None of that in this text, of course, is. But what's up? There are passwords, there are accepted general places around human rights, of course, there are declarations from 1950 and some years, and there are no strategies, there are no tactics, so what will be done in the immediate future and there is almost nothing about migration that should be of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The applicant's concept bet is strange. The key places inside are dedicated to the position of foreigners, asylum, illegal migration. So an approach that can be expected from the Ministry of the Interior, right, one police approach that everyone is suspected of, if not, until otherwise determined, so the migrations come down to how to prevent illegal entry into Croatia, how to take care of foreigners, how to keep them from doing something they shouldn't do and so on. And what should we do? What does Croatia need today, and what will it need tomorrow? Let's just say it harshly, fill an empty country between Carlovec and the sea. There's almost no one living there, maybe 50 thousand people living in the whole field. I don't know if you've come through, say, between Slunj and Ogulin, that's one beautiful neighborhood, a beautiful road beautifully built, 50 kilometers. There's no dog or machete on those 50 kilometers, there's no one around. It's an empty road. On the hills are torn down or semi - torn schools that say that someone once lived there and no one lives today. The migration strategy, i.e. immigration, should be concerned about how this area is filled. Croatia has few inhabitants, less and less, we are getting older and what is really necessary for us or not, is for someone to live here. A new technological revolution, a society of knowledge and all those passwords we're sworn to, they didn't find a place here either. Namely, nothing is said about whether Croatia has the intention of one day like those developing or developing countries have already done, so determine what it is, who we really need to do and then find out, we are now going to develop what kind of medical services in Croatia and for that we will need 250 or 450 or 4000 and 500 such and such doctors. Our immigration strategy should determine which countries if they are not here, and they are not here, doctors are already complaining today that no one will study medicine, in which countries there are doctors who are ready to come here. That's what the government needs to show and offer. Unfortunately, the government doesn't really seem to know where it's going and where it's supposed to go and then things happen. So they happen, they react to events. It reacts how? The way it's known, the police method. What others do, we hear the same thing. What do countries do big immigration of the type of Canada, the United States, Australia we all know, because each of us has someone there and we know how they went into what quota and under what conditions they've gone under. Unfortunately, Croatia appears to be in that position soon. If we do not prepare for this position today, we will not be able to cope with this bright future that we draw in the European Union. If we do not know how to prepare for this kind of paper, so perhaps we should come up with a web portal on which the Minister of Home Affairs, in fact, and us and foreign citizens who intend to come to Croatia, would know about God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90980	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90981	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I wouldn't want to repeat this all that my colleagues said, so I'd start with that, like my HDZ colleagues said the name of this strategy should change itself. And I'd like to start with these objectives that are listed, according to the objectives of migration policy. I think 95% of that should be referred to immigration policy. We know what kind of state we are, we know what our demographic structure is, and we know where this demographic structure is going and how it works. In order for us to fix it, to have and keep actually this number of people we have, we need to know in what way we are going to allow the move into Croatia. We need to know what people we need, and we need to know how many of these people we need. Are we going to allow young, old, married, single, whether we're going to import uneducated, allow uneducated, medium-educated, highly educated, doctors, whether it's gonna be waiters, chefs, informers, or if I don't know any other profession we need. But to know which people, we need to know those. And to know how many of them we need to have strategies and that's what we should have written here. How long in the next five years, the year, the 10 years we're going to need a cook, how long we're going to need a builder, how much we're going to need an informer, how much we're going to need a baker, because someone has to write that in the strategy. Because we know how to go to Germany. We know how to settle and arrange an interstate contract, and Germany needs an informer, a doctor, a cook. And then Germany opens its borders and lets our people go there and get a job. That's how it is with interstate contracts. What are we suggesting here? Nothing. And we also know how countries and those that stimulate leaving their country solve it. We meet it every day with the Chinese. China gives every man who leaves the country $39,000 a head, every one. So everyone gets $39,000 to open some kind of business anywhere in the world. And help their people move out. We don't care about that. Because there are few of us, and we're interested in moving in anyway. And what my colleague Vuljanic said in the space from Karlovac to the sea we have 50,000 inhabitants, nothing more. And we know it's the cattle end, and we know at this point how much we're missing the shepherds in Slavonia. Because there's no one to guard the sheep, you don't believe me. That, by any chance, the minister went to Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example, or Montenegro, to neighbouring countries and offered them there to hire us as shepherds and offered what conditions we offer, which I believe would solve. It could and could be signed by an interstate contract. An interstate contract can be signed and labour can be obtained for what we need. Whether these people are going to live here or not is the same question of immigration policy and the question of who we're going to call. And the same question is whether the minister spoke to the economy minister. How long do we need the ones in the building, how much we need in this one, how much we need in that one. There is no strategy, there is no strategy, we do not know how many people should come to Croatia. And we know what kind of situation we're in, and we know how weak our population is. And examples of how we call on our emigrants to return to Croatia have also seen in the investments these emigrants have tried to make in Croatia. We took most of the money and drove them back. The best example is HFP, the Croatian Privatisation Fund. How much the Croatian Privatisation Fund sold to our capital people who wanted to return to Croatia. Very few, gentlemen. Very little, and they may be able to buy, have likely encountered such barriers that they are not used to meeting in their countries. I don't want to mention this affair at all but they've encountered barriers they haven't had in their own countries. And they turned around and went back. And we all swore, and we all swear that we will return our emigrants to Croatia. Couldn't we, couldn't we, didn't we? I'm not saying that everyone out there went out to have money and they're full of money. But those who have money couldn't even try to return by presenting to them in their countries what we offer and under what conditions. I guarantee the Croatian Privatisation Fund did not cross Croatia's borders and offer that property outside. But we still don't want to mention the affair, we'll have a chance to talk about it. But we could've gone over that property that we were selling safely brought investors to Croatia if we'd offered them fair and square, if we hadn't put barriers in front of them. And so, gentlemen, this strategy, I suggest that this, uh, I don't know, here's a colleague Vuljanic called it an essay, that you withdraw this essay from the procedure because it doesn't make sense and they promise nothing about immigration policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90982	Replica, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90983	Mr. President, colleague Kapralevich. You have every right to take a critical look at this document before us, whether it's a strategy or just a migration policy. Still, she's set some goals, not an essay. So I'm just going to look back at something that, which you were talking about, which is page 24, has been determined by the immigration arrangement, taking care of the necessary inflow into the working population of the Republic of Croatia. Then by setting criteria with respect, with respect for the state interests of development plans and programmes and demand on the labour market, enabling the immigration of members of the family of Croatian citizens and Croatian descendants, etc. Surely to one extent, not as much as we all wanted, not to read further the objectives of immigration policy. But you referred to the return possible or impossible or obstacles of Croatian emigration as a returnee. I'm sure there was a problem. And you must know, from 1990 to today, thank God in Croatia, more than 50,000 people have returned from emigration. If you have seen the report of the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports, we are constantly saying that Croatia is its future must be based on knowledge. However, 29 scientists have returned to the Republic of Croatia in the last few years, in addition to what Croatian emigrant scientists are doing on more special projects. Now here come three young scientists in the Republic of Croatia and from Germany who are familiar to me, that's our second generation. And a lot of things that aren't said in this and we need to work on and make a real strategy for migration policy. It's a very important document. Here I am, just today to quote from the newspaper: France will choose which immigrants it wants to receive. The accession treaty for the integration of Sarkozy should be concluded by all settlers who want to stay in the Republic of Croatia. So then you see Germany two, it's been passing six years of such a similar law. You remember well that he was standing in drawers in the Supreme Court in... And so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we can't call this document that the essay is still good, a document, a good basis for what we want to achieve, and a lot of it has been settled in the laws that we've been talking about for two days. It's the Foreign Law and the Asylum Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90984	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90985	Thank you. Mr. President, here's a colleague in a lot of things we agree on except in the part where you have to perform in a party. So you have to defend this document even though you disagree with it most of the time. And because you don't want to call him an essay, we don't have to. We'll call it a fairy tale. ... Or the bass here, anything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I just want to remind you of one thing. You said that more than 50,000 people had returned to Croatia, but you didn't say how many at the same time had gone from Croatia to highly educated people who had been picked up by someone else's immigration policy and we had these same people for every highly educated man invested EUR 100 thousand to educate him and to organize him so that he could go outside. And someone with their immigration policy picked him up for nothing. We trained his man.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90986	Final review by State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90987	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I have listened to this debate and it seems to me that this is about misunderstanding, about not understanding yourself to be documents. It is doubtless that what Mr Vidovic asked whether the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to adopt a document? There is. The national programme of the Republic of Croatia for joining the European Union for 2005 also includes the creation of a document on the migration policy of the Republic of Croatia. The European Commission's screening report on Chapter 24 states that the Republic of Croatia must adopt a strategy and that the deadlines have already passed. This proposal for a strategy has been working for a long time and it is not true that experts from all areas have not participated in it since it is clear that the strategy is a multidisciplinary document that is very important for many areas and segments of the entire Croatian society. One or two round tables were chaired by Vice-President Mrs Pusic. I believe that some of the MPs also participated on that round table. So I repeat again it seems to me that this is about the lack of understanding of this document. This document is not the law. This document is a political framework that should provide the basis for the adoption of a series of other measures. One of these measures is yesterday's debate on the Foreign and Asylum Act. The law on foreigners is one of the fundamental documents that will be the implementing act for the implementation of the migration policy strategy. In fact, you probably noticed yesterday that one of the newspapers is that, in the case of drawing up quotas for work permits, there will be consulting and office for the economy, district offices. It will be taken into account, it will be taken into account, but it clearly says here, it clearly states in the strategy that what are the obligations of adoption, the adoption of the Foreign Law, the adoption of the Law on Citizenship, the adoption of the Asylum Act. So a series of other documents that will regulate this matter. The strategy is not a law where they will be taxed. In addition, you yourself said that in migration flows, flows are changing and that these changes are more long-term, somewhere shorter. And surely here's one information about the number of unemployed, it can have an important impact on the migration policy strategy. A year and a half ago, two days ago, there were 400,000 unemployed, this year's name is 280 thousand. This is an important piece of information that certainly affects the strategy that the state will be leading around the permission of foreigners, foreign workers to move into the Republic of Croatia. So this matter is living tissue. This matter is very dynamic. This matter is subject to very fast, frequent changes and migration changes occur not only in our environment, but in all of Europe, what is clearly stated here in this strategy. And that's why we've just tried to provide a framework document that gives us the opportunity to put what's written here in a document that's a component? That all competent authorities, institutions in the Republic of Croatia can take those measures that are necessary to implement one designed migration policy strategy depending on the needs of Croatian society and in line with the highest standards of the European Union. I repeat again this is a strategic document that needs to be given a framework rather than a law in which all measures will be taxed. In addition, the action plan is in preparation. The action plan will make more detailed, more comprehensive, more precise what measures are and what institutions are responsible for implementing these measures. So nothing was done by heart. Nothing has been done without consultation and with European Union experts, but also with domestic experts and I repeat again there have been several round tables and here in the Parliament where the strategy has been discussed. Is this perhaps the happiest name? This is what we can check further, however, in the European Commission's screening report: "The Republic of Croatia is late with the adoption of a migration policy strategy." The European Union is asking us to bring a document declaring the regulation of this matter in the most democratic way that it is present in the European Union. These other laws, which I have already listed, will need to prescribe these measures taxively and ensure that they are implemented. So here I'm saying it seems to me that there was a misunderstanding about, about, I say, here's what we're going to think about whether the strategy should be? It was the first proposal to be a resolution. Is it a strategy? I'm sure the document can be better. I'm sure the document can be better. The safe document can be better, we absolutely agree, but I say we spent a lot of time making it, the experts participated in its work, but we are ready to think about it and check out all these criticisms that you have made to see if the document can be called differently and whether it should be complemented by certain measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90988	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90989	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State said contradictoryly that Europe obliges us to draw up a strategy, and then said that we have produced a declaratory document which is actually a resolution. I agree, this is a resolution, it's attitudes and passwords in there, but it's definitely not a strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90990	And the esteemed representative Antun Kapraljevic, the correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90991	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Vuljanić corrected the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90992	I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a migration policy strategy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Immigration. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90994	1st Amendment is not accepted because it is accepted 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90995	And it's the same. This is the amendment of the Immigration Committee. What's up with that?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90996	The immigration amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u90997	So it becomes an integral part of that strategy. Zdenka Babić's amendment, MP Zdenka Babić Petricevic, was accepted through this amendment. Right? It is. All right, then. I am voting on the proposal for a strategy. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 86 for, 3 abstentions and 4 against the accepted strategy. We are going to the next item - - The report on the work of the Post Office Council for 2006 - Proposer of the Post Office Council in accordance with Article 28. The postal law, the Post Office Council, provided us with that report. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. The President of the Post Office Council, Terezija Bencic, does not intend to further explain the proposal. The rapporteur of the Committee. There's no intention. I'm opening a debate. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u91001	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm sorry there's no one here from the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology. And there is. He wouldn't take any opening exposure. I'm sorry no one discussed this subject. We talk about the knowledge society, we talk about how important it is to us, how important it is to us. The National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development established this Assembly by a special law, and I am pleased that after three years or four of that effective existence of the foundation, it is indeed doing good programs, the report is really good. However, what I think we ourselves should say as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which is only one sentence from this excellent report of the foundation. This is a statement from page 27 of this report, which says in 2006 the foundation did not have revenues from the state budget, although the law defined that such a foundation that financed primarily excellence, which finance doctoral programmes, which finance quality, which in some way financed the return of these good scientists from abroad, was not found to fit this country and to the will of this majority in Parliament to finance the foundation itself with a single kuna and a single lip. I repeat, the foundation did not receive a single drop from the state budget in 2006. So much for how important knowledge society is in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-20-0.u91002	I'm closing the debate. Annual Report of the National Foundation for Higher Education Science and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia for 2006. The following conclusion shall be given to the vote. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 80 votes for, 5 abstentions to the proposed report.
