ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95719	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes in its second reading the Final Proposal of the Act on the takeover of stock companies. The final proposal of the Act on the acquisition of stock companies is proposed in accordance with the procedure of adoption for second reading after the Croatian Assembly adopted the first reading of the Stakeover Act at the 26th session in July of this year. The final proposal was drawn up in such a way as to accept the remarks concerning the nomotechnical arrangement or legal expression of certain provisions laid down by the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee. And the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget had no objections. The law is also fully communicated since this is about one of the laws, which are therefore governed by the question of the process of taking over public limited companies according to the legal property of the European Union. So we have also communicated it with the European Commission, and in this sense we have also made several important remarks. What I would say and repeat and what is very important for this law, therefore, this law may come at a very important moment in the Croatian financial system. In fact, at a time when Croatian citizens are quite interested in the stock market, when Croatian citizens respond in large numbers to initial public offers, this law in a certain way improves and ensures their status as small shareholders. Thus, the objective and purpose of this law is therefore to further strengthen and create a legislative framework for the implementation of the takeover procedure, which will be in line with the provisions of Directive 2004/25 of the European Parliament, implementing the basic principles of the takeover process. So that there can be no takeover in which actually Croatian citizens or small shareholders are not in, do not have their share. Ensure clarity and transparency. So to ensure that the situation does not occur within and during the takeover, so that the takeover is carried out untransparently, so that small shareholders could not or could not protect the interests of all shareholders, especially those with minority stakes in the event of control over their society. Ensure the powers of the supervisory institution. In this case for the takeover of stock companies and for such a process, such a procedure is the responsibility of the Croatian Agency for the Control of Non-banking Financial Institutions. Create, reduce the extent of abuse of privileged information. So, in this case, when it comes to taking over stock companies, it is usually small shareholders who do not have enough information in this regard. This law should therefore ensure that this scope of abuse of privileged information is reduced, i.e. to completely disappear. Ensure timely notification of the terms and conditions of the takeover bid and the obligation of the management of the target companies to timely inform and employees of all knowledge, facts or negotiations relating to the takeover. So, not to let employees, of course, of course, who are extremely important to their survival at the firm, so they don't know what's going on in their company, their company. In this respect, this law implements additional protection and therefore ensures that the process for them is carried out in a transparent manner. Obligation of company administrations which are therefore targeted, which are taken up to publish reasoned opinions on the takeover offer, the reasons on which this opinion is based, including reflections on the effects of the offer on the overall interests of the companies, and in particular on employment. Therefore, in this respect, the safety of employees and small shareholders is further strengthened in order to, or in the process of taking over, the company. Ensure the conditions to enable the tenderer to gain control of the target company and, in this respect, to regulate restrictions on the transfer of shares, restrictions on voting rights, special rights and of course defence measures. provide compensation for the shares which are the subject of the offer. And in cases where shareholders suffer loss in order to abolish their rights. And also the provisions of this law comply with the provisions of other laws in the area of commercial companies and laws governing securities trading. What is most important, therefore, is that the proponent of the Government, in this law guides the principles aimed at protecting the interests of all, especially minority shareholders and employees, to ensure equal treatment of minority shareholders, to ensure fair and fair prices in the process of taking over, so that society is not taken over and that minority shareholders are brought before the finished act with extremely low prices taken or left behind, and then the majority shareholder determines whether there will be dividends at all, there will be no dividends. And in fact, their stock isn't worth a damn after that. Clear regulation of the takeover procedure, ensuring transparency by timely notification of all participants in the takeover process. So, both smaller shareholders and the public and therefore supervisory institutions and ultimately what is the most important employee. The adoption of this law will therefore bring the process of taking over public limited companies into line with the acquis of the European Union and European standards in this area. This is, in particular, related to the implementation of the principles and obligations arising from the 2004 European Union Directive of 25. Here's so much from the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95720	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95721	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council! Well, it's an extremely important law, even for the moment it's being passed. So because of all these political, economic, I don't know, international, etc. Implication. There are a few of these important changes and I'm going to sort of go between the other lines. We now see that the board of directors, the supervisory board of the company that received the takeover offer, will also be able to look for other bidders as they are otherwise popularly referred to as "white knights" whom they consider more appropriate owners of the attacked society than the current conditions of this legislative proposal. Such a provision in the final proposal for a new Act on the takeover of a company is one with regard to the news of the 2002 legislative proposal so far. The law continued to prohibit the administration, the supervisory board of the target company, from increasing the underlying capital to deal with business outside the regular business after receiving a notice of takeover, and from jeopardising or disabling the takeover process. However, the demand for another bidder is not considered to be such a prohibited action. And in some ways it is certainly the most significant novelty in this bill. Since the adoption of this law in July 2002, there have been 150 acquisitions of stock companies in Croatia by the end of 2006. For their shares, 15.3 billion kuna was paid for those 150 companies from 2002 to 2006. Of that, it was clearly the largest part paid in 2006 when Bar took over Pliva's shares in the competition with Actavis. What kind of age did that look like? Ten acquisitions of stock companies took place in 2002. They've been taken over with an amount of 303 million kuna. In 2003 there were thirty-five acquisitions of companies and a total of 473 million kunas were paid. In 2004, we have 30 downloads, 244 million kunas are paid. Forty-three happened in 2005. In total, 195 million kuna or only 195 million kuna were paid, which is about 25 if so many euros and in 2006, as much as 14 billion and 77 million kuna were paid, and I said that the grotesque financial engagement concerned exactly the takeover of Pliva. I can say that some lessons, doubtless from this case, have now been offered and passed on pardon into some legal solutions in this legislative proposal. According to the draft law, a natural or legal person is obliged to publish an offer to take over directly or indirectly on his own or acting jointly when he acquires those shares with the right of the vote of the target society, so that, together with the shares which have already acquired, the threshold of 25% of the shares with the right to vote. So that's that control threshold. After that, the takeover bid must be announced when the acquisition of shares increases the voting process by more than 10%. That's the extra threshold. The takeover offer is mandatory to publish when less than 10% of the shares are acquired if that acquisition exceeds the 74% voting right threshold or what is otherwise called the final threshold. The tenderer must immediately inform HANFA, inform the target company immediately, inform the public without delay, inform the stock exchange immediately. The notification must be made clearly without delay and in the case of a voluntary takeover offer. The targeted company on the other hand must immediately notify that it has received an offer or a statement in its relations with the tenderers. HANFA may request someone’s statement of intent to take over if it notices that the situation on the capital market indicates a possible takeover, and that is also important and should actually enable it in that sense to actively monitor what is happening on the capital market. Even if such an intention is observed in someone’s public communication it is clear that HANFA should react absolutely immediately. Under the current law, and this is the same newspaper, the offerer of the stock was obliged to pay in cash and according to this new bill can offer money, can offer replacement shares, can even offer a combination of money and these shares. However, if the shareholders of the company that is being taken over do not want the replacement shares then that bidder must have the financial capacity to clearly pay off their expectations in cash. There is also news about the prescribed content of the offer. And what matters is what the secretary of state was also talking about. The future opinion on the takeover offer would be given by the management, no longer by the Supervisory Board, as regulated by the existing legislative proposal. The opinion of the administration, as we have heard, must also be presented to the workers and, if their response is received, the management is obliged to attach it clearly to its statement. I do not know if this is the best solution or whether it should remain on the existing no matter what practice may be in the countries of our environment because often the best legal solutions that we pass on in the legal form of the Republic of Croatia when faced with our inventiveness in these areas end up operating in a way that simply would not want to or simply did not expect to. The conditions and deadlines under which tenders are submitted are detailed. The takeover offer will be worth twenty-eight days, a competitive takeover offer can be submitted no later than ten days before the takeover bid expires and without a competitive offer it is possible to raise the price from the takeover bid and in that case the new price must be at least 2% higher than the previous one. I said at the very beginning that this law is extremely important for the moment in which it is brought as such. At this point in Croatia I suppose there are 600, perhaps 700 thousand of these small shareholders after this stampede on shares of T-HT that are listed by almost 370,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I just want to say that those little ones would be really disastrous to tax. In Germany, for example, there is no capital gain tax for holding shares for over a year, and that is if it is done clearly in a private account even though the portfolio does not contain more than 1% of the total shares of a company. So capital gains let's pay big players not small. As a rule today, young people who indirectly begin to save money in such a way, hoping to earn several thousand kunas in one package, possibly covering a minus in their current account. The tax is otherwise paid on the net value of capital gains in Germany, meaning the difference between the earned and lost assets on the capital market. So if Croatia takes over the German model results we know that it will be more than modest and therefore Croatia should not be introduced for small, large yes, absolutely for large yes but for small not those types of taxes but Croatia, Croatia needs to be audited and that already someone should ask the question that individuals of the 1990s without a single kuna came to the most representative Croatian property. But I'm afraid it won't be anything. Two-thirds of those who acquired through the conversion of their own, this one, our capital that they normally transferred to their accounts already transferred that capital or that property to third parties, have entered some new jobs. And today, we can only put salt on their tails. What's going to happen, and we need to ask ourselves a question tomorrow when the budget can't be sold, can't sell anymore by selling public goods? We've sold everything in this country that's worth it. Almost everything we had. We have "Croatia Insurance", the Post Bank. This system should be preserved for the sake of monetary independence. We're left with HEP. If we sell it, we'll be down the colony. Let's see who takes our shipyards. Today I read one piece of information that only this shipyard in Split owes more than two billion and 500 million kuna on today. And only last year did the shipyard in Split try to settle with a billion and 700 million kuna. The one in Rijeka with a billion and 700 million kuna. A queen with 220 and a Brodotrogir with 640 million kuna. Clearly, the Oilman did not get a single lip on that basis. We have gentlemen today 31 billion euros in foreign debt. This year alone, to cover external debt, it does not matter if it is a government debt, public companies or banks will have to pay EUR 7.8 billion. In 5 years, that foreign debt will exceed 40, maybe 45 billion euros, and in the meantime, we will have to pay 30 billion euros back in those five years. We'll get away with it in the end if we sell the Croatian electricity industry, but after that, our pretty one won't be ours anymore. And because it needs to be entered into the European Union sooner. So once again, this bill is certainly not controversial. This bill is a consequence of what I was saying about Pliva's takeover, Bar's takeover of Pliva's shares. Some solutions are absolutely logical. Our point is that the Supervisory Boards should be given priority over this call for a company to take over. Not to the administrations because right there this ownership substrate may have been best expressed, but other solutions are logical and I do not think that the legal proposal will cause any particular doubt and could be one, one, useful reading for future acquisitions of companies in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95722	Thank you. The SDP club is a respected representative, Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95723	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Allow, above all, a few observations that might call principled nature. This Law on the Proposal, on the takeover of stock companies, as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Companies, and the law that we have opened up the possibility of the concentration of European companies that we have brought so far, are actually intended to try to create conditions for rounding up capital and ownership of shares and share capital in companies with us and in Europe or the European Union. On the other hand, everything under the firm says this regulation to actually strengthen the competitive power, the power of these companies, that is, these companies. I'd say, and it seems to me that it's actually one big delusion that comes from having property to solve everything. In the modern economy, it's not about ownership, it's about governance. Property is the assumption that someone will manage something or empower someone to manage something about a business relationship. And in that respect, she needs to be enlightened for another reason. Which at the same time, such legal solutions open up the possibility of actually taking on weaker capital or opening up the possibility of a stronger swallow of small. For us in transition countries, this is extremely important, regardless of what we need to comply with the European Union, because on the one hand we are leading the economic and political policy of further privatisation in a way that strengthens the so-called. Civil and labour shareholders through the possibility of purchasing shares from HT through public offerings. From citizens to a certain amount with preferential prices. From INA and so on. And in this respect, it seems very convenient because in fact a large number of citizens are involved in the purchase, in the purchase of share capital in such companies. At the same time, we are passing a law whereby holders of a large portfolio or large portfolio will not be able to take over the shares of those shares but have the right to take over, and these cannot object unless under legal conditions they have to pay a certain fee or as it says here now: "now a fair fee" even though we were unable to implement it with all efforts in the last law. The third thing that follows from this in itself is the fact that it will actually be very soon before entering the European Union, and especially after entering the European Union so-called. attractive companies and companies that can be developmentists in this part of the world, and especially companies and companies that will deal with the issue of energy transport, new technologies and the transfer of information, and that all means our INA, our telecommunications, Elektroprivreda will be published very, very quickly offers on the acquisition of the portfolio of small shareholders. And in this respect it should be clear and you should see a way not through these laws, but perhaps to pass a special law as a lex specialis how to protect and small shareholders on our occasions because they actually act in some way and a national body of property in our businesses. I have to pay particular attention to this question so it doesn't turn out tomorrow if we didn't know, that it wouldn't turn out to be the result of the pressure of the European Union and of the economic and such, and in fact the door was opened by us. And we need to be clear and clear. But what is also clear is that the power of economic and financial power to take over these small shareholders is not in the state budget, is not in the Government of the Republic of Croatia but is located in those companies that have financial capital, which are willing to hand over to the owners of the commercial capital, i.e. the financial capital of the party. And the question still arises if we go into conversions and privatisations to strengthen the share capital of small shareholders, if we are trying to get in a position to have such power, then the question is what is the financial and developmental follow-up. Is there finally a huge resource of national wealth called the savings of citizens, which is called the state budget, which is called budget and municipalities, cities and counties, which is called public enterprises' funds owned by the state and units of local self-government, we actually try to create with them special banks of development and municipal banks that will monitor development among other units of local and regional self-government and monitor the development and operation of small capital and small shareholders. Of course, the question is how much compared to the 90 percent of the financial capital owned by foreigners in the first place, we can do it. Just because I want to point out right now, even at the end of our mind in the SDP, it's not to say that foreigners shouldn't have capital and property here. Anyway, let them come, everything's fine. But there's a question of whether we have some kind of leverage, some leverage on how to evenly compete with national grounds, and to put ourselves in a position to have that financial and other capital in our possession by logic and by the rules that behave in its home country. There's no point in keeping your head in the sand as a noose and not seeing the fact that the owners of these same banks or banks of that mother, these called our banks, "our" under the supposed signs, actually in their countries with a much lower price of capital service their economy, their citizens, and they take a much higher price of capital or interest for a simple reason because they are in a monopoly position. We must draw attention to that question or to those questions on the one hand. And on the other hand, at the same time, say that we will support the bill because it is better than the previous one. However, if small shareholders must already be taken over for the first time, some newspapers that go in favour of small shareholders, first of all from the aspect of determining the fee that should now be finally not only determined but determined. And it's about being the same first, the second being fair, the third being that she follows if nothing else is the average price. Here we have an objection in Article 16 that we do not think it would be good to follow the average price of the last year. Why don't you take an average of 3 months like that in Germany. But by the way, let's put it right here right now, and we're gonna draw a special attention that once this law comes into force and starts to apply to us, it's probably going to happen to us that some funds or banks like it do, and in Germany will especially specialize in buying small shareholders' shares so that they can actually put them in a position to take over when big companies go to take over these small shareholders. So a new additional form of not only financial business will be opened, but if you want financial engineering. In this respect, the PIF Act and the laws relating to banks should also be further regulated. So it's a positive side and we support it. But right now in this segment we draw attention to and we point out one fact that we do not understand it, if we already support that we should adopt and bring it in and in accordance with the European Union documents, then the question is raised and why in Article 61(1) we say that now the procedures will start to take over according to the old law where it is said that they will have the right to compensation which is determined or eventually go to court to determine it. I think it's more unfavourable there. And then if we are already going to do this with more than that in paragraph 61, point 2 is said if the procedure continues, that is, if it goes through a new procedure or a new publication, then this law will apply. So if that's the case, why don't we go for the benefit of the small shareholders, and we say in paragraph 1, we start the proceedings when it comes to compensation, etc. the provisions of this law should apply. Of course, in addition to these principles and concrete questions, we also have some questions that we want to further warn about, and then individual remarks about this law that we say is good, and our individual objections are going in this direction to actually show one part of the warning, and on the other hand, and some views that could be useful if not now and what in the next amendment and addition of this law for its correction and improvement. The first problem that arises is actually the conflict of jurisdiction between the two courts. The agency, which should enforce the law or which it says here, needs to be supervised by the law, which we immediately have a reserve, because in fact, with regard to law enforcement, the authority has its own agency and obligations, on the one hand. On the other hand, all proceedings conducted before the Agency are actually administrative proceedings and all disputes arising from this if they are not satisfied with the resolution of participants in the first and second stages end in the administrative dispute, except in the case of Article 49, where the tenderer does not publish an offer for takeover under the terms and conditions laid down in this Act, any shareholder of the target company may, through a local competent commercial court, require mandatory conclusion, etc. Now who's that every stockholder that, well that's that little stockholder under 5% or I don't know the other one. Look, the question now arises, why are we driving small shareholders here to a commercial court instead of making the agency run a dispute for them before the Administrative Court or to solve the issue itself for the benefit of small shareholders. Why? I stress this in particular, because at the same time if there is no publication here under Article 27(1), (3) and (3). then it is an offence for which the Agency charges in accordance with Article 59 very high penalties from such companies... So if he's already charging for why he didn't immediately order this small stockholder to take over shares under the most favourable conditions they had, at the rate of the average price created in the last year. [[You don't understand.]] It makes no sense to force these small shareholders to run a dispute before a trade court because eventually this dispute will have to pay number one, and number two, of course they are not legally or educated or have the means to hire experts to actually pay them for such small share capital. First of all, who are these small shareholders? So those who have paid, those workers of ours and the citizens who have paid those shares with discounts as workers under the Company Conversion Act or those who, through a public offer as citizens, buy I don't know 36 or I don't know how many thousands of kuna shares. Therefore, it is obvious that the weaker side is, and therefore, the issue is not well resolved and should be dealt with in any case further. The other problem that arises from this is only a question that is related to the fact that administrative courts are not educated for this kind of treatment. Because administrative courts, which is very interesting, should actually evaluate the law until the administration's handling related to certain... Now it is said here that the agency will keep an eye on legality, but if it is not satisfied, it can lead the administrative dispute, which is the jurisdiction of the Administrative Court. [[You don't understand.]] And what will the Administrative Court do? It will, as a rule, determine, not sufficiently established, not supplied or documents like this, to return to the Agency's conduct. Because we don't actually have something that would be a court full of jurisdiction and there's one huge problem. It's a huge problem. It will be one of the early non-functioning cancers of the Croatian judiciary, and such a law requires the amendment of the Law on Courts and a different reshuffle of courts and should be created in fact by the Administrative Court not only at the state level but it will probably have to be created at least at the level of the statistical regions or somewhere more, where it will also be a court full of jurisdiction, not in general, not exceptionally in such cases and where a concrete dispute will have to be resolved to the end, particularly with respect to the aspect of the protection of legality. Of course, this could also be done to take care of another fact, that it will enter into part of the jurisdiction of the trade court and, in this respect, it should be clarified and diverged in particular. When it comes to Article 47(1), where the Agency is told to monitor the application of the provision of this law, I think it is completely wrong. It should read here: "Agency implements this law", and supervision of the implementation of this law and the application of this law must be done by the ministry. Because watch out, the agency can't determine the rights, determine responsibility, charge and conduct misdemeanor procedures, charge everything and control itself, so it doesn't go anywhere. This is not going anywhere, and this should be done quite seriously, as Article 46(2) also states, paragraphs 2, 3, 5, 6 and 7 of the Law apply accordingly. For what? It's actually about prices and offers. That part should therefore be more precisely arranged, etc. But I still have an individual, so I'm going to have some extras at an individual hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95724	Thank you. HDZ representative club, respected representative Ante Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95725	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The law on the takeover of stock companies proposes to regulate the question of the process of taking over public stock companies in accordance with the legal property of the European Union, more specifically with the principles and obligations arising from the European Parliament and the Council Directive of 21 April 2004 on bids for takeover. This law proposes to regulate the rights and obligations in the process of taking over public shareholders, and in particular issues relating to the offer for the takeover of public shareholders, its legal impact on small shareholders. During the period of application of the applicable law on the takeover of stock companies from 2002 to 2006, a total of 150 bids were announced for takeover on the basis of which shares of 15.3 billion kuna were taken over, with 32 bids for takeover worth 14 billion kuna in 2006 and more importantly someone said here is "Piva". This law proposes a set of companies whose acquisition of shares by the acquirers in a share of more than 25% of shares with voting rights and each further acquisition of 10% and more than 75% is subject to the obligation to publish a takeover offer. It is also proposed to regulate the way in which shares of legal and natural persons working together are taken over, i.e. persons in the process are linked. At the moment of the public publication of bids for acquisition as well as its content, the way in which the percentage is calculated, the participation in the voting rights of the assembly, the objectives and intentions of the tenderers, which must be met by workers of the company who are being taken over and the right to transfer and sell shares of minority shareholders. This law also proposes to regulate the issue of control over the takeover process and the applicable law on the takeover procedure when the acquirer is from a Member State of the European Union or other foreign countries, as well as the regulation of the issue of setting a fair price in the process of taking over, in relation to the scope of trade, in the organised public market, in the stock market and the price acquired by the potential acquirer prior to the publication of the public takeover bid. This law allows for the protection of the rights of shareholders, but also of the acquirer, the visibility of the proceedings and its course and the authority of the administration and the supervisory board during the takeover. An option is proposed to provide the offerer with the necessary funds as a compensation for the acquisition of shares in cash and swap shares, but subject to the mandatory condition of the offer of cash compensation depending on the choice of sharesholders. Administrative supervision, control of the management and supervision of the board of the company under the takeover process is not allowed to carry out actions that could prevent the takeover without the consent of the main congregation of the company except in the part of the actions relating to the request for a competitive offer. The law also proposes to regulate the right to transfer shares of minority shareholders in such a way that the bidder who controls the shares that account for 95% of the capital, i.e. the right to vote of the company which was the subject of the takeover process, may, within three months of the end of the term of the takeover offer, execute the takeover and all other shares with the payment of the fair fee. In that case, too, it is given the right of minority shareholders to request the sale of shares to the acquirer under the obligation to buy them with a fair fee and that is the price from the takeover offer. As well as when the competent authority of a Member State authorised the publication of bids for the acquisition of the target company whose shares are authorised to trade on the securities market in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to this proposal, the Law has been amended and amended with a view to improving its application and achieving the principle of the takeover process. It has been made with respect to the legal gain of the European Union, which the European Commission has confirmed in its statement on the proposal for a law, as well as the lessons learned from the previous takeover procedures. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will therefore support this proposal, which is in line with both the European Commission's position and opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95726	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95727	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow government representatives. It is therefore not disputed that the final proposal of the Act on the takeover of stock companies is in line with the legal gains of the European Union, but the problem is that the fact that the situation in Croatia is quite different from the legal property of the European Union, related to the takeover of stock companies in general for the trading of shares. For this reason, the Croatian Party club will vote in favour of this Act on one fundamental condition, i.e. to restrict, i.e. the prohibition of trading in shares and the transfer of companies for those companies for which the State audit has established that illegal conversion and privatisation has been carried out. This is of the 1556 companies that have supervised you, for 1481 the state audit found that the conversion and privatisation was illegal, we also know that the order of size of the assessment of the values of these companies that were first converted and then privatised amounted to slightly less than 29 billion dollars, and the state proceeded by selling a total of 3 billion and 311 million euros. Therefore, we cannot allow the sale, i.e. the transfer of shares further, as sanctions should be applied to the established situation. The same situation also applies to banks. The bank has not yet been audited, as we have proposed to carry out that audit by the Agency for the Abduction of Kidnapping Assets, we know for ourselves that we have invested 15 billion euros for the recovery of banks, we have sold for a billion euros, and now the value of these banks is over 45 billion euros. Therefore, our situation is not the same, is not the same, and if we want to be responsible and not allow the shares of what has been stolen, in the story called conversion and privatisation in the Croatian way, which the state's audit has uncontestedly found that the conversion and privatisation has been done in an illegal way, we must limit the trading of those shares, until the rule of law brings a river in such situations. So that's the part that matters in Croatia about the European Union. Because the European Union, when there is no problem in its legal gains about this part of which we have, is related to this theft and looting in the conversion and privatisation and non-sanitary and non-compliance of what has been confirmed as such by the state audit. So let's be responsible and do that part. Let's say you have a variant that defenders are limited to the right to have shares in funds, i.e. shares in funds, and now we have another situation, that those who in many cases have only been taking over without any compensation of that conversion and privatisation, are now given the opportunity to resell, acquire profits and everything else and here we have limited. Therefore, let us be responsible and put this part of the restriction on the right to trade in shares or the transfer of such companies for which the state audit we have a concrete basis found that the conversion and privatisation was carried out in an illegal manner. So that's 95.17%. Each case must first and foremost be checked by the Agency for the Abduction of Kidnap Assets, as both England and other countries have, and after that, when obtained... these agencies would then be subject to the provisions of this Act or they could act as specified by the provisions of this Act. So that's a basic condition, and I think we have to have every responsibility to protect what can still be protected from letting it go any further. Another important problem that we will have to do is one strategy, how to teach, or describe Croatian citizens what they are shares, how they can trade shares, buy shares and all other important things, so that they do not get into a variety of variants where, unfortunately, it will go badly, as I say to the state, she gave 15 billion euros for the recovery of banks and she was incometing a billion euros. Or the situation with the Split Bank was sold for 84m euros to one Italian, he immediately resold to the Austrian for 136m euros, and after two months, the last transaction amounted to a billion euros sold to the French. Therefore, it is a fundamental condition and I think that in that part we must be responsible to protect the interests of Croatian citizens and to do something that is possible to do and it is related to conversion and privatisation. I must also say that this part of the Law must also be related to the Law on Commercial Companies, so it might be a better option for them to come into force at the same time as this Law on Commercial Companies, the Law on Commercial Companies, those amendments and additions that we have brought into force on 1 April 2008, while this Law enters into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal. So there are certain legal problems that we are not talking about other situations. Therefore, these are the terms of the Croatian Party Club's right to support this law, so let's restrict the right to trade in shares and to take over shares, for all those companies that the State Audit found illegal in the process of conversion and privatisation, and I say that's a thousand 481 companies out of a thousand 556 that the state audit supervised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95728	Thank you. HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95729	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me say a couple of facilities on behalf of the HSLS club. It seems to us about the timing of the adoption of this final proposal of the Law on the takeover of stock companies to play or play a game, that judicial compensation should now be made and that the result that has already been achieved, to explain why this is precisely the result. There is no doubt that the shares are interested in the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and this particular lure, the hysteria about the purchase of shares of TK has just shown this great interest, and I would say that this interest is precisely proportional to the knowledge that is actually an average citizen of the Republic of Croatia, but not only the average has at all about what the shares are. I think this hysteria of the last 10 weeks has shown what actually a good PR can do, can make a good promise at the right time and then actually people believe in that fast and easy profit. If you'll just let me have a moment of privacy and I've decided to take part in it, learn something. I agree that 38 thousand kunas are not small money, but about the same as the man who here in this Croatian Parliament would have to pass exactly the laws that would protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then not to do so by some impression, feeling or political doctrine, but rather to try to learn something, so that he might actually say that something is good or not good and that when I vote that I really vote with a wish that my voice would be a voice that would actually protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm just saying all of this that's been happening shows exactly one giant ignorance, a lack of elementary education, but simply that we live in some virtual reality, media reality, and then really this media presentation is exactly the one that just sort of did this situation around buying shares of TK. As the story ends we will see, I would also like it not to end as it ended in Spain and I do not know Germany selling the same shares and that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia may, because of the timing, have a little bit more luck with this. But right now we're coming back when we said that the game has already been played and that things are more or less known, but right now we need to get it legal and give this legal solution to everything that has happened in Croatia in the past 17 years. I think it's actually one of the bigger problems, not only in Croatia, but any transition exactly what we talked about yesterday was the logic of the heart and logic of the mind that the logic of the heart prevailed there in the 1990s. In some ways, those expectations that existed then actually clouded every other critical voice and precisely the desire for independence, independence and new social relations were stronger than some, or in another plan they completely suppressed the necessary knowledge, theoretical knowledge, knowledge of the economy, and what is actually going to happen. And that's why our transition had all the elements of the original accumulation of power and capital, and just when the citizens sobered up and when they saw exactly that independence, so it's certainly a high price and it's always paid, but sometimes we in history pay, or subscribe what we might actually get cheaper. And the elements of some kind of nostalgia and think that what happened 90 years ago were better just coming out of these failed expectations, and precisely because of what some things came in, it's said as a throat in strawberries, then we actually saw that there were fishermen of human souls who very well said exploited that high degree of emotion and desire for these social changes, but actually they offered one relationship that was a connection between the last and the new one, which was a desire to achieve. So I say we should read exactly the serious books and fellow Letica is exactly, since we share the same opinion,... theoretically, he reminded me he was already in '98. In his paradigm article, the winners took all the following, he explained that the partial reform balance is a general characteristic of all post-Communism countries, rather than a key thesis that the winners, i.e. the profiteers, better say early stages of post-Communism. These are those who have benefited the most from the privatisation process at a later stage to pursue limited legal and economic reforms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're just interested in this legal certainty. You know then when you got something, that you got the way you got, then you just want someone else to get stronger, crazy, equally dangerous not to take it again. So some way you have to stop that spill and actually now they've become the biggest even defenders of the rule of law, because they actually need the rule of law. These political cumulative reforms aim to legalise ownership and political status that radical reforms... rights, transparency and a tendency to justice in terms of the equality of privatisation opportunities could be compromised and this partial reform balance is considered by Hellman to have brought the countries of Middle Eastern Europe the worst of neoliberalism and of communism, and the legacy of state communism is the condition of crisis management, crisis institutions and state administration, we had it all and no wonder here which, as a liberal, actually constantly insists on defending the institution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We always said why the transition in Spain worked after Frank, and why... It didn't work out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's... naively believed in some of those postulates of this Marxist, linguistic doctrine that it is, in fact, that everything is in these economic reforms, but unfortunately it is not happening and you have a whole series of really countries where reforms are, or the economy is relatively solid, but there is actually no institution, you live in autocratic, dictatorial regimes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not something that's unknown, but the whole problem of exactly all the guidance or the vast majority of the leadership of our parties is actually fundamental and, in fact, one almost horrifying theoretical inspiration, and today we don't really have all of this here, we're entering into a very interesting pre-election time, and I'm still not going to be able to read one excess theoretical attitude that would really solve these fundamental questions. And it was really naive, you know, when we on January 3rd just for political reasons, actually in "Toojemanism" or that period before we objected exactly that this political control over these financial and economic flows. Well, that political control is, in that way, unique to all of the transition countries. It's not our specifics. The same thing now, too, now again as we then promised to review conversion and privatisation. I'm the one law, and I'm also naive to believe that that's the only solution. It's partly just a solution. As it is now trying to, that if we put the Constitution that there is no statute of limitations and punishment for this war profiting will solve our problems. It's not just political issues. These are theoretical questions that we systematically avoid solving. We're systematically, we're just trying to figure out what we're going to tax, what we're not taxing, but there's no analytical approach to our fundamental economic problems. We're actually ignoring what's happened in these two weeks in our banks, in these FINAs, and where it hasn't all happened. It's just that it's these people that actually, about something they really don't know or almost have minimal knowledge, that's what goes in like a throat in strawberries. Here came a colleague of the Church and to him as well, as an expert who handed it over for years to, who was a minister of the economy in fact also instead of being here, what we were always forced to do here was, in fact, missing what was fundamental, and that was one clear theoretical position of one political option, always so, which would in fact explain in the right way what was actually happening in Croatia, what had happened, whether it had to happen, whether it could have been controlled and what mechanisms that had happened, and what had not happened was not good. Selling that family silver, gold whatever we call it is something that was actually inadmissible. It's inadmissible and it was political decisions, but now we're putting up with these political decisions. Exactly, I kept saying in this House that this high-level unemployment is a consequence of the fact that our banks are in foreign hands. Well, it's not that permanent banker's interest that he's creating new jobs here. That's amazing. I have to admit, I'm a little surprised. But at least these first, these last fifteen years he hasn't shown that interest that in some way, that what he's got cheap, which is below any price, which he paid to actually legally place it, but he's just interested in what he's interested in, and that's extracting profits. But we, I mean what I'm still saying is this is exactly how we tend to see whether that point of the agenda is 66th or 68th. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] I deeply trust the President of the Parliament that we will be able to process all points. Indeed, it is done in a thorough manner. But exactly the thing is one thing... I believe, I didn't say that... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But let me believe it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And not really that we're trying to get our eyes dirty with this right now and be aware that it's not going to be anything. No matter what we do, I don't know how to put it in the Constitution. And we'll always have, see we've got cover, we're it, it's a constitutional category, but actually it's never going to be implemented in reality. That theory and practice problem is a hell of a problem. You know, I almost feel sorry for the Slovenians for having one, I don't know Zizak the philosopher, and we see... No Croatian philosopher, and apparently they are, there is one great cathedral at the Faculty of Philosophy, those famous... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They haven't responded to a single challenge this time after 93 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All those who've been answering since... Furthermore, they write some nostalgic texts that refer there to the 1960s and 1970s and none, which is interesting to any process of social, political, theoretically not predicted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, that's the problem. That's our problem. While, in contrast to them, Slovenians, not only Žižak, but the whole of one play at the Faculty of Philosophy who actually write about what actually happened and how naively, naively, we have just consented to this combination of neoliberalism and what is called the legacy of communism. And that's why nostalgia and those solutions and the success of these excommunist parties. And you can see that from Hungary and Poland from now on. It's nothing unusual. That's Croatia, too. And just that nostalgia, right where that safety principle is, it was that famous one, even... He wrote about it at that time brilliantly, precisely about this symbiosis of political elites and working class. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Right now, you're not questioning the political system, we're questioning your workplace. And we're still letting you work on black. It's a gray economy. Well, that's, it all started somewhere, but we're not trying to... but we simply accept it as some fact that we are going through, through which we are going through and trying to solve our underlying problems with political flossules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when 320 thousand people happen to us, God forbid Spain happens. I'm not calling, but God forbid it happens. I said, I decided to pay that price for someone to learn, because nobody taught me. My education system, though, wasn't even an economic province, but it just didn't teach me. But I wasn't taught later. That's the problem with our education is something we need to think about. And that today one good... It solves our policy, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's pure theatreisation, theatreisation and commercialisation of politics. This also solves our economic problems, solves and buys shares. And also proof of how we said comrades and friends, ladies and gentlemen, as far as we got, as far as we got. That's where we came from. But it's so obvious it's going to stay that way. We will keep talking and calling on what Pascal said that we need to balance between the logic of the heart and the logic of the mind, but with us, in fact, the heart always prevails, so again on skillful and good promises some things will be realized, and nothing will happen in reality. Someone said we left "Croatia" behind. Incidentally, given the circumstances, we were a little rebelled, but it was already the idea that "Croatia" would be the same one of these family levers to sell. And to whom, but to Triglav Insurance. As we shouldn't have allowed it, I don't know that "Mol" buys an "INA" but to just be the other way around, because I remember very well 20 years ago when I went to Hungary, "Mol" was a village pump station compared to our "INA". And what are we... And now what have we allowed? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's something we have to imagine and not here have some politically hidden, hidden message. And that's what my dear friends in this House have been doing to us, and we've all been involved in this more or less, more or less, something out of ignorance, and I have to do the same, but the same thing exactly from these short-term pardon effects that they're going to give, they're not going to give any results. Get power just because, and then we don't know what to do with it we've already had a few opportunities to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95730	A little pessimistic vision of the future... Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95731	... An endlessly interesting and practical presentation. [[Specially enabled.]] Yet he injured our theoretical potential by saying that Slovenia has Žizek so that we have... Croatia, however, has a huge number of sociologists, philosophers, economists in all areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the Slovenian authorities know how to use these people, Croatians out of contempt, and that is a fundamental comparative reason why. Like, I'll tell you, and that's what I end up with. Coli Kramarić, in the area of economics today, has 50 people working on leading European and American universities that are younger than thirty-five years old and have never been consulted on how to contribute to Croatia's improvement. Slovenians know that, and they've always been able to do it. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95732	Comrade Letica, you've had your book in your hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95733	He, he took away from me, found some wisdom there.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95734	I hope that was authentically said by colleagues Kramarić that what they think is a fellow Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95735	You're a positive hero of my book, you know that after you've read them. And there are negative heroes. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95736	And the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95737	Your Honor, Mr. President, there's been a really inspired exposure. And then Mr. Kramaric said about those who slaughtered the state that unfortunately everything would remain the same. It won't stay the same, it'll be worse because a few of them allegedly intend to run for the next presidential election as well. And when you were talking about banks, all I have to do is tell you the correction. For example, Zagrebačka banka has an annual profit before tax profit is 26% and UNICO has 6%. Well, then we can see what it was like to privatise Croatian banks and what we got and where the capital is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95738	Honorable representative of Ante Mark's Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95739	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, after this very impressive almost at the level of broader elaboration from counterpart Kramarić, the ethics of business and the value of neoliberalism, I will try a little more concretely to return to the Final Proposal of the Act on the takeover of shareholders and to show what the position of HSS is on the final draft of the law. In fact, there has been a long debate on the proposal for a law on the takeover of stock companies. Different structures have participated in creating, challenging, adding new proposals, respecting the differences that exist in Croatia and practice and theory in relation to the same practice and theory in the European Union. And perhaps not enough today in the debate on this bill respects one of the great interests of the professional public that existed in this bill and may be given the impression that there are certain small nuances and that there is almost nothing to say in the context of this proposal for a law on the takeover of stock companies. Things do not stand in one sense or in harmony with the same legislation in the European Union countries, there are different models. There are also almost irreconcilable views on the part of individual members of the European Union and this is essentially about the content of this problem. Indeed, the fact is, and it is inconclusive that by taking over stock companies, the position of shareholders changes. He's changing either for the better or for the worse. And of course this law tries to create those conditions that those whose position has changed so that they will not be damaged. Of course, in the Croatian story every takeover of stock companies, now I won't talk about the structure of stock companies, there's another story behind it. Is it that small door and attempt to legalize something that is not in line with the legal norm when it comes to the way in which that property is acquired? So, of course, it can't be debated in any way or not put into context when taking over stock companies the way they acquire primary shares by the owners. And of course that's where we have to agree with what Pero said that, of course, privatisation is not only one of the causes of irregularities but also what is said in the State Review report of the illegal way of acquiring must not find a way through these filters on the takeover of stock companies. In other words, the Act on the acquisition of stock companies cannot be in some way a filter that will allow illegally and unlawfully acquired assets to be converted into legally efficient and above all property that will no longer be discussed through the category of those shortcomings of the legal assets recorded during primary acquisition. As a result, this law opens far broader obligations in the debate on him than it may have been through a debate so far. As a result, he has actually taken on the great negative potential that exists. I say unrelated whether it's a structure within the stock companies. Of course the banks were almost "holy cows" up until now. They existed and were excluded from serious debates either from serious attempts to debate legal proposals and their legal legality and their legal position. Because, let's be realistic, a step has been made in the financial sector in Croatia. The financial sector is gentlemen consolidated. A huge core, strength, quality, legality, protection and legality were created in the financial sector. But it was created at the heart of the real sector. The real sector got married. The real sector is jobs, domestic production, domestic capacities, in other words citizens. They were taken to consolidate the financial sector. He's consolidated in two ways. The first way was directly from the budget they were giving funds to consolidate some of the leading banks. Another way was to go directly from the real sector to the financial sector to help strengthen the sector. I absolutely think it should be done to strengthen the financial sector. Why? That's why, of course, citizens benefit from it. That they can benefit from favourable loans, favourable loans, so that they can exercise their rights on the financial market. But what happens when the real sector does not follow the real position of the financial sector. It happens that you get your loans. That you get your loans on one side. But you can't pay back all those loans. And it's not just about the individual citizen, it's about the state as public authority. So what happens next? So you're actually being taken over. When you can't repay your loans, then take over your house, your property. You, yourself. If we cannot raise the real sector to meet the possibilities of the financial sector then we have created an imbalance. In this imbalance, instead of raising the real sector, we train domestic capacities to be able to function in the financial sector, we continue to strengthen the privilege and strengthen those who already have too much. And that's the financial sector. They're our banks. These are shareholders who through the takeover process are not only doing a financial transaction to raise the prices of their shares but are looking for legal protection to escape from possible, to establish a fully legal order in the search for those who did not legally acquire their assets. So we have two processes. Both are equally dangerous if they are not responded in good time and effectively. That's why we have to be in the context of this law. In it it is well agreed absolutely that management can be mixed from now on. So she can stand up against hostile takeover to protect her legitimate interests. Certain elements of the laws which include the way to download which will be in the function of those who will be minority. Which will be the function of those who are employees. We support that because it's natural but technical processes. They do not provide an answer to these major and essential issues. So what I want to warn on behalf of the HSS Club. Of course, further development of the financial sector will also require our credibility with citizens. So the fact is that we, this was the case now and in this public offering of T-Com's shares when it was said, "You're going to be given something." There's no securities market for any giving or confiscation. The market is an independent instrument operating in accordance with market mechanisms. He can't give up and not give up. In the end, it's the wrong message. We can't send our citizens a message that the state is giving something. The state isn't even a mixer in business. This is the state, held on the market that has its strict mechanisms. Therefore, we must not teach citizens at this stage when we have citizens who do not know enough about market business through securities, through stocks and so on. So from Pliva to here, from Pliva to here that as a society we wanted to take advantage of the potential of our citizens then the difference in Pliva that amounted to an extraordinary amount. Compared to all other transactions, she was an elite winner. We could have all these citizens instead of saving 3.4% of our annual interest on foreign banks to get involved in the process of taking Pliva. We'd make 30, 40 and 50%. Our citizens. And not the speculators who bought 300, 400, 500 thousand Euros at this T-Com store, and so that it doesn't end up with all the numbers of people enrolled being all the few that can be classified into these benches of the Parliament. Well, we didn't do it for them. It is therefore appropriate that those public authorities operating in the financial market system of the Republic of Croatia, HANFA, first of all, take measures to ensure that those who through various powers, through various variants, bought shares and in this way unlawfully, want to use a privilege which is intended for a citizen. Therefore, we must also make sure that the general benefit is not turned into an individual. And it's a task of law. And that's why we need to talk. But gentlemen, without serious education and creating the right picture of what is the task of the financial market, which is the task of securities, which is the task and possibility of a stockholder, we cannot deal with a modern way of doing business in which citizens can have their own interest and their own benefit. But I repeat, without the development of the real sector, raising domestic capacity, creating new jobs, new jobs and creating real values, there will be no room for speculation on the financial market. Speculation on the financial market only lasts until the moment when the real sector is established in that relationship that it needs to take over. Because only the real sector provides its capacities with fuel for the financial sector. The financial sector will only operate under these conditions as long as we have available resources. And those resources, gentlemen, we sold them well. When the capacity from these natural resources disappears, irrevocable, real estate, strong Croatian state-owned companies will then fall gentlemen and the financial market provided we do not raise our domestic capacity. So, of course, this law has no answer and I don't want to put all this criticism or this, this debate I've devoted to. But he's the one who's been targeted for the reason he's facing a double decision, to be the legalizer of something that's not right. And in another way to adapt to European standards which, of course, we have nothing if they are in the interest of both stakeholders and minority shareholders, as well as administrations and employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95740	Thank you. In 10 and 40, it was time for a ten-minute debate. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95741	Here's Mr. President, it was just the case for me to speak behind a colleague of Mark's. And that is why I will point to some questionable credibility for us in this House of High and even Croatian politics. In today's "Free Dalmatia" one of the most interesting photographs has been published in the past few years. It is a photograph of counterparts Pankretić, colleagues Frištic and colleagues Đurđe Adlesic at the Kamnik cart. That photo shows Mr Pancretic in his position as if he were going to milk the cow.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95742	Is it a brake or a swimmer?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95743	That's what I'm gonna say, the brake. So three people are probably on the brake, and for the first time, they're probably on the brake. They left the helm to Đurđi Adlesic, which does not indicate the great perspectives of Croatian politics. Ante Markov who knows everything about the brakes isn't in the picture at all. And instead of the HSS dealing with its traditional e-mail that my colleague Markov was hypothetically talking about, and his traditional e-mail, Mr. President, is enlightening. The HSS was just about to educate the Croatian people both in terms of stockholdering and in the stock market. It describes them computerically, etc., etc. The second is a sad fact, I came to this high house this morning with great expectations. First of all, I expected to find a colleague in the House, Josipovic, who proposes even constitutional changes that would prevent the obsolescence of crimes from converting and privatising and some post-festum criminalisation of war profits. Unfortunately, he's not here. No colleagues from Jurcic, my dear colleague who wants to be prime minister. There are no colleagues Slavko Linic who wanted to sell Croatia Insurance to Slovenians why. I'm glad that Mate Church showed up, but he disappeared, somehow made me happy. So I will talk here about the drama of Croatian society which we are not observers but unfortunately participants and co-response. My colleague Cain spoke out of law, and he seems to be the only one who's read the law, which is not true. The law was certainly read by counterpart Pero Kovacevic, and was partly read by colleague Kramarić who does not have to read in detail because his insights are conceptual and theoretical. So I will talk here about the drama of Croatian privatisation and the creation of new illusions. While we are engaged in war, kidnapping, reselling, incompetence ahead of us is happening and is preparing a new drama called a public private partnership. It's the premises of a new robbery. You are watching these days and constantly monitoring the technology of what the State's Attorney's Office will do, this High House, ministers, dive tears and propose constitutional changes that will prohibit, or attempt to incriminate robbery from a public private partnership system. Our good country, the government, that some elite space in some city center, some military or whatever local self-government. In front of local self-government, an opsian who has ready-made projects, for example from Greece and the Olympics or from some European, from some European project bureau, gets land for a bad guy as a public partner's role in this, he finds a capital of suspicious or transparent origin and makes a fantastic contract to use children in schools from midnight to 11:00 in the morning and commercially exploits from 1 p.m. to 10 p.m. Like, it's one of the models. These days you're looking at Zagreb, which unfortunately has hit my great sorrow, I thought only the curse of water, but it was also the curse of rebellion of nature. While the citizens were silent, while they were guided and terrified of nature, they rebelled. It means over the water through the collapse, across the groundwaters. And you see, exchanges of different building plots. Same system for you, you for me, half for me, half for him, half for you. And now we're talking about how to solve one problem, I'm only going to look at one point in this law in relation to which I asked one question in the Constitutional Judges' hearing system. The question was about: "Do you agree with the Constitutional Court's ruling that a larger one, the owner of 95% of the shares has the right to take over, or so on. the fair price of the share less than 5%?" Of the I think 17 or 18 candidates for constitutional judges, only two have agreed to the thesis. Of course they wanted to make us socially sensitive. It will be interesting to observe how the judges of the Constitutional Court will behave because you have taken over as part of the legal gain of the provision that will allow the majority of the owners of Croatia at the moment of Croatia's accession to the European Union to rule out small shareholders at the price I have learned from the takeover offer, if I understand yours well. This is a fantastic solution, as in general there are excellent solutions for old market economies, for stable ownership systems, for systems where embezzlement, robbery and kidnapping were made 100, 150 and 200 years ago. The first generation of robbers sent children to elite European American schools. The second generation has opened humanitarian treasures. And with us, the name of the EURONA logic which is segmentally suggested by something that Pero Kovacevic, who has been sold out of Croatian banks for a billion euros, currently worth 45 billion euros, draws profits that are two or three times the domestic profits in these banks in the countries from which they come and then organises spectacular humanitarian action to buy the stick that fell on the next Jelena Kostanić. And the entire Croatian public blesses these people as great aid workers. Those sticks pay 100, 200 thousand kuna and buy from us an unhealthy and sick conscience. I will tell you only on the example that I am working on in one material that will come on the agenda, Mr. President, at the end of this term, will increasingly have a tendency to your wisdom, you have put on the agenda a debate on the economic state of the Croatian nation and the adoption of the programme of economic development of the Republic of Croatia by a great Croatian scientist and economist Mr. Mate Babic. In that material you'll find, you've all got him, like a sad fate or a story about just one bank. About the Split Bank, which Mate Granic, or Mate Granic, sold to his brother Goran Granic as soon as they came to power, for 84m euros, to Italians. The Italians sold it to the Austrians for 136m euros next year, and then the Austrians sold it to the French last year for a billion and 10m euros. Interestingly, the good Mate Granic, or good Granic, when he sold it, gave several press conferences in Slavko Linić and the late Ivica Racan, who was indeed a nice man but did not understand the economy and could not be blamed for anything at that time, because in the judicial system, ignorance does not esculate your responsibilities, and in politics, unfortunately, he boasted that this first sale would spectacularly save Croatian tourism. So, Bisserka, take care of yourself, don't talk to me at all in the SDP. I don't know what you're in the SDP when you're nowhere to be found, but there's no Prime Minister in this room at all. So I'm telling you, we need to get this law back or postpone its application. To make a theoretical conclave on the trail of opposition about what Kramarić was talking about, which is masochistically critical of Croatian scientists, and raised towards Žizek, which is the most productive, most frequently cited and possibly the most brilliant philosopher and scientist and sociologist from Southeast Europe. However, if we were to make a critical analysis of this law, then let's say a provision that I was just quoting here, and 22 other provisions would justify my deep skepticism. I will personally be against that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95744	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95745	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Letica is true that yesterday we were on a fishing boat, because we wanted to warn that yesterday, four years ago, at the proposal of the HSS, the Ecological Fishing Belt Act was passed, but never activated, never implemented. So we wanted to point out that the decision taken to activate 1.1.2008 is because we believe it is final and that no one will or will not change it. And as a good host, I also wanted President Friscic and President Gjurdju to know and tell them that he will learn how to drive and a fisherman very quickly, and that is only proof that when we come to power, we will know very quickly and the citizens learn how to deal with those values that are taken by others at this point and not by our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95746	Who's gonna run it? Who was in charge? Was it a brake or a swimmer or a fisherman? ... Are they happy, the three of them all landed happily? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95747	It's a handsome gesture, unfortunately an empty gesture and a late gesture. You had the right of your colleague Markov to be in power and you could activate the exclusive economic belt, you could form a coast guard, you could do whatever you were, you could even prevent that one tragic practice that Croatia would be without a submarine for the first time in the last 150 years. You could do anything because you understand. You're supposed to own five islands, but you didn't want to. So I don't believe a word you're saying about this brake. It's one folklore pre-election brake, and I don't believe you caught anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95748	Did you catch any of them? Final review, Secretary of State Ante Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95749	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here after this long debate on this law, I would really return to the scale of this law and perhaps respond to a few debates by the MPs, so here's the part of the debate by the distinguished representative Markov. I'd like to say a few indicators regarding the real sector. So the financial sector and... And we can really say that for many years we haven't had any more stress. [[You don't understand.]] The last one that was, therefore, related to the Rijeka Bank which was successfully solved at that time and indeed when you look at real indicators, and real indicators know what, economic growth, unemployment rate, export growth rate etc. Then you'll see that it's about good indicators and they can't be bad because they're just good. The State Statistics Office is an independent body that measures this and the growth of the gross domestic product of 7% is a real indicator, the drop in unemployment rates below 11% is a real indicator. Export growth in the first 7 months of 11.6% is also a real indicator, low inflation, growth in tourism revenues, so these are all real indicators that show that consolidation of the financial sector makes a lot of sense in the real economy. What was the role of the state in this law? There was a lot of talk about it during the debate. The role of the state was, therefore, to provide the best possible framework for Croatian citizens, and this law actually makes it possible. So here's an article 46 about these regulations, so the question of these 95% of those who have ownership, says those who hold at least 95% of the shares with the right to vote of the target society have minority shareholders within three months of the expiry of the offer of the right to sell their shares with the right to vote to the bidder. With the obligation of the bidders, with an obligation of 95% and which assumes to buy those shares with a fair fee and not to give embarrassingly low prices to these small shareholders who remain to the end. So the aim of the law is to enforce principles aimed at protecting all particularly minority shareholders. It may have been a false impression that during this part of the debate, this Law does not do so but does so. Therefore, ensuring a fair price, as quoted earlier in Article 46(1), clearly determines the moment of the takeover obligation, clear regulation of the takeover procedure, ensuring transparency and this by timely notification of all participants in the takeover procedure, that no one happens to take over an undertaking without employees knowing it, that minority shareholders do not know it, that the management does not know it, that all actors in this regard are protected. And compliance with the acquis of the European Union does not mean taking something bad, but indeed, if it is and it is good for the 27 EU member states, I must admit that it is hard to believe that it is only here in Croatia that something like this would not be good. Regarding the fact that small shareholders have to sell, do not have to sell, ownership is a constitutional category and this law does not empower anyone, I mention this Law does not empower anyone but only protects small shareholders, or all shareholders. When we talk about this, then, that the descripting of shareholders, describing citizens, indeed with all their actions and in terms of buying shares of T-HT and other initial public offers that will take place in the future that were so far as INA, they are actually learning in this whole process and indeed this Law, which will be published to both the websites and the Parliament and the Government, and it will be in the National Journal, helping citizens to be fully aware that they have certain rights as shareholders, not only in this law but also in a number of other laws. This law really repeats protecting small shareholders, actually protecting all shareholders who are located, management, employees and those who might feel damaged in the process of taking over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95750	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95751	Mr. Zigman literally said that the case of the River Bank was successfully solved, it's true. But that cost the state, Mr. Zigman, 200 million dollars today. So success is, I agree when we save one institution with $200 million, but because of that success, no one carried any conjecture and the taxpayers lost 200 million dollars, it's about one tunnel through Učka, it's 30 to 40 km of road, it's two general hospitals in Pula, it's 20-something new schools and only one hall in Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95752	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We're going to vote on the debated points. First, the Final Proposal for a Act on the acquisition of stock companies. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the deadline. We should vote to debate and vote on the amendments that the government has submitted after the deadline. Who's up for it? Thank you. Against? 111 for. 11 against. So we'll vote. Amendment 1 to the First Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95754	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Amendment 1 proposes an amendment which sets out the obligation of the tenderer to reduce the share of a specific issuer on a regulated public market which... The period following the beginning of the obligation on the announced offer and the submission of applications offers a higher price. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95755	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of Amendment 1. Government? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 116 for, 5 against, the amendment is an integral part of the bill. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95756	The amendment defines the exact term "timely" in a way that defines the beginning and its expiry.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95757	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for Amendment 2? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 115 for, 6 against, the amendment is an integral part of the law. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95758	The third amendment only proposes to bring the deadlines in line with the proposed amendment 2 relating to the amendment to Article 41. So the amendment... concerning Amendment 2. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95759	I'm closing the debate. Who's for Amendment 3? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 114 for, 7 against. It becomes an integral part of the law. We have eight amendments to the Legislative Committee. Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95760	Amendment 1 The Government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95761	It becomes an integral part of the law. The other one?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95762	Amendment 2 The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95763	It's part of the law. Third?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95764	Amendment 3 The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95765	It's part of the law. Fourth?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95766	Amendment 4 The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95767	It's part of the law. Fifth?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95768	Amendment 5 The government does not accept for reasons why. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95769	Retracted. Thank you. Retracted. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95770	Amendment 6 Government does not accept [[Intruder: Dragged.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95771	Retracted. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95772	Amendment 7 The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95773	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95774	And Amendment 8. The government doesn't accept [[Intruder: Pulling.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95775	Retracted. Thank you very much, Minister. I am voting on the final proposal of the Act on the takeover of stock companies. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, with 114 votes for, 1st, 6 abstentions, the Act on the acquisition of stock companies in the text has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Let's go to the next - Final draft accounting law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 736. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and European Integration. State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Ante Zigman will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95777	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to the procedure and is in front of you in the second reading of the Accounting Act. Therefore, during the implementation of an analytical review and an assessment of the compliance of national legislation with the acquis of the European Union for Chapter 6. Trade law obliges to implement the harmonisation of the Accounting Act with the acquis of the European Union. In this connection, the creation of this Act, whose adoption as we know and provided for by the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union in 2007. What is very important to stress is that this law for the first time and in the drafting of this Law was fully involved by all the stakeholders affected by this Law. So, from craftsmen, businesses, accountants, auditors, financial experts, ministries, the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency, the National Bank, so everyone has been included in this Act in a certain way, and this Law has really tried to fully regulate the issues that the current Accounting Laws have failed to regulate. What is important to say may be merely a technical fact, but it is important therefore that the law is in line with the 4th Directive of the Council of the European Union and the 7th Council Directive on consolidated reports and reports of certain types of companies. This law regulates accounting issues in the area of the accounting of entrepreneurs in terms of the assembling and drawing up of annual financial reports, consolidated annual financial reports and, of course, their publication. The question of accounting relating to the capital and capital reserves of the company which are subject to the regulation of the Company Act shall not be settled. What is important to say is that this law according to European norm is prescribed and determined and divided by entrepreneurs into small, medium and large. Therefore, this classification in this Act has been fully taken over from the legal property of the Euorbian Union. This Law regulates the exercise of supervision of the conduct of accounting operations. I note that the accountant, that the accounting system had no direct supervision so far, only existed in the sense that the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Tax Administration controlled the tax balances and, in that sense, looked at accounting or accounting balances, but this Law actually introduced direct supervision of financial statements, accounting reports resulting from this Act and they were given into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration. Of course, in the part of financial institutions where different financial reports are prescribed regarding banks and other financial institutions, therefore insurance companies, Leasing societies, etc., with the Ministry of Finance supervision are carried out by the Croatian National Bank and the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency. This law regulates the scope of the application of the international standard of financial reporting and what is important for mentioning the Croatian standard of financial reporting for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Of course, this Law regulates the types of individual and consolidated annual financial reports that entrepreneurs are obliged to draw up depending on their size. Furthermore, the law regulates entrepreneurs who are obliged to carry out an audit of the annual financial reports. The law also prescribes the obligation to draw up and publish annual reports which include an objective demonstration of the evolution of the performance of the obligor and its position on the market, together with a description of the main risks of the uncertainty he faces. So every entrepreneur, by applying the new law, will be able to see the annual financial reports of the companies with which he operates through the Internet. So it's not possible to find yourself in a situation where he didn't know that someone was blocked or that someone had a loss or that someone had some difficulty in doing business. Financial reports will be available to all and in this sense this Law enables all entrepreneurs to not be led astray in a certain way. This Act regulates the manner and the public publication of the annual financial reports of the annual reports, the register of annual financial reports to be conducted by the financial agency and what I have mentioned will be made available electronically on the Internet pages. The application of this Act is foreseen for 1.1.2008. Therefore, since it is a law applicable to calendar periods of one year, the application of the law will be from 1.1.2008. It is important to say, therefore, that this second reading, that in the first reading, we accepted all the nomotechnical remarks, therefore which the Committee on Lawmaking and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget had, that the European Commission had given the opinion that the proposal of the Law on Accounting, that the legal property of the European Union had been implemented and that the shortcomings, the non-compliance with the acquis of the European Union had been identified by the bilateral review of Croatian legislation, or the non-compliance resulting from the current law, such as the implementation of the provisions on annual financial reports, the annual report, the revision of annual financial reports and the consolidation of annual financial reports, and the provisions on the public publication of annual financial reports. Here's so much from the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95778	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95779	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community considered the Final Proposal for the Law on Accounting, will support its adoption, and its obligation to adopt it has already been adopted by the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the European Union for 2007 and the obligation to bring our legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. Furthermore, this proposal for a law is in line with the 4th Council of Europe Directive on the annual reports of certain companies with the 7th Council of Europe Directive on consolidated reports and the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe on the application of international accounting standards, in accordance with the legal regulation of these areas prescribed by European legislation, but also with the regulation of the public publication of financial reports, the introduction into the register of annual financial reports and the regulatory control of the conduct of accounting operations, this proposal differs significantly from the existing, or the applicable Accounting Act. The current accounting practice has identified difficulties in applying accounting standards in terms of when and who should apply international accounting standards or Croatian accounting standards. This Law dealt with this, or clearly established. The functions and role of the Financial Reporting Standards Committee are also defined. It is proposed in view of the complexity and complexity of international accounting standards and international standards of financial reporting to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, i.e. those whose shares are not listed on the stock market to use Croatian accounting standards and Croatian financial reporting standards when compiling and presenting annual financial reports. This enables small entrepreneurs to make annual financial reports simpler and reduce operating costs. In addition, this Law solves other sometimes misunderstandings, which is who and how it is obliged to publish financial reports. The new proposal precisely regulates the full law, regulates the full public publication affairs in the sense that each entrepreneur knows exactly what reports, how to draw up, whom and when and in what form he must deliver. Furthermore, this Law also regulates two new areas, which are the register of annual financial reports and the supervision of the conduct of accounting operations. The register of annual financial reports run by the financial agency is a central source of information on the financial position and performance of the business of entrepreneurs, is conducted in electronic form and is available on the website for free of charge. The law requires the keeping of a register and the way and possibility of using data from a register. In order to carry out accounting operations and all entrepreneurs in accordance with this Act and other regulations governing the business of entrepreneurs and to draw up an accurate and objective financial report, this Law provides for a way to monitor the conduct of accounting operations. The supervisory exercise will be carried out by the tax administration inspectors of the Ministry of Finance, and, in addition to them, supervision of entrepreneurs in part of accounting operations may also be carried out by authorities authorised to supervise entrepreneurs in accordance with regulations governing the activities of entrepreneurs such as the Croatian National Bank, or the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. This supervisory function, if carried out as provided for by the law, will have dual benefits for both entrepreneurs and the state. Entrepreneurs will be forced to comply with legal requirements and to equalise the conditions of performance and to allow healthy loyal competition. For the state, this will mean a level playing field for entrepreneurs towards real income and strengthening financial discipline and creating a healthy business climate for investment in strengthening and developing the economy. Without prejudice to the manner in which the audit is carried out and the rules laid down by the Revision Act, this proposal provides for and determines who the audit bonds are. These are medium and large entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs whose shares or securities are listed on the stock exchange or prepare for their inclusion in the securities market and entrepreneurs who are obliged to draw up consolidated annual financial reports. Small entrepreneurs are not the bonds of the audit and thus reduce unnecessary financial expenditure because the audit is charged by audit firms carrying out the audit. These provisions, as well as provisions on the possibility of drawing up shortened financial reports, constitute exceptions for small entrepreneurs and are another contribution from this Government to discharge and incentives to strengthen small entrepreneurship as one of the carriers of economic development and employment. Finally, at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, we believe that this law strengthens the uniformity of interpretation, better defines certain articles and respects the legal gain of the European Union and we propose that it be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95780	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Secondly, the Final Proposal of the Accounting Act. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer. The amendments were filed by the government after the deadline. Let's vote to discuss and vote on the government's amendments after the deadline. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 97 for, 22 against. So we'll vote. Minister, Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95782	Amendment 1 only proposes nomotechnical editing of the text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95783	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for Amendment One? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 112 for, 6 against, 2 abstentions. Amendment 2 accepted. Amendment 1. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95784	Amendment 2. It is therefore proposed to amend, regulate the duties of the Financial Agency of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration of Entrepreneurs who do not comply with Article 20. The accounting law, i.e. does not provide annual financial reports and the annual report and the audit report with a view to public publication so that the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, may initiate an infringement procedure in respect of the provisions of Article 32(1), point (b) of point 24. The accounting law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95785	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for Amendment 2? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 114 for, 6 against. Amendment 2 also adopted. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95786	Amendment 3 is proposed to supplement, the proposed supplement represents a clearer definition of the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration for the conduct of accounting operations in the case of non-entrepreneurs within the meaning of this Act but is bound by the provision of Article 2(3) of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95787	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for Amendment 3? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 112 for, 7 against. Amendment accepted. And Amendment 4 to the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95788	Amendment 4, the proposed amendments represent a clearer determination that infringements of the provisions of relations are also directed to persons referred to in Article 2(3) of this Act and nomotechnical arrangements.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95789	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's for Amendment 4? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 110 for, 8 against. It becomes an amendment to an integral part of the law. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Accounting and Amendment adopted by the Committee on, which was tabled by the Legislative Committee, the Proposer has adopted. So I am voting on the final proposal of the Accounting Act. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 118 votes in favour, the Accounting Act was unanimously passed along with the amendments adopted. Let's go to the next - Final draft law supplementing the Law on Special Tax on Alcohol, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 783 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and Law What? [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95791	I was going to propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in Article 205, that a joint discussion of this law and the law with a regular number of 36th, a regular number of points which is the same, therefore, the law that I have proposed. The only difference is that this law... The emergency reading, and the one is in regular first-reading procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since it's about the same law... Yeah, it's the same law. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As far as the contents are concerned... It's the same. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Identical. Or it's 34. 44. That's a suggestion, so please accept. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95792	There's no...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95794	No, neither are the boards, not the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95795	But the government's opinion is not an obstacle. In addition, the government has adopted its proposal for this law, it is.../Speakers speak out loud./...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95796	Yes, it is. Here you go, Mr. Zigman! So you'll be taking part in the debate if that...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95797	Okay, yeah, that's for sure. But it's not the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95798	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the Law on Supplements to the Law on Special Tax on Alcohol with the Final Proposal of the Law. The law therefore stems from part of the Croatian Parliament's conclusion of 9 July 2007, adopted at the 26th session of the Croatian Parliament held on 6 July 2007. Well, good. What is governed by the Law on Special Tax on Alcohol? The specific tax on alcohol is governed by the payment of a special tax on alcohol and alcoholic beverages produced and sold in the Republic of Croatia, and imports into the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia. What this law proposes to change is that fruit wines which so far are taxed with a special alcohol tax of 60 kuna per litre of absolute alcohol, since fruit wine is obtained from fruit, and wine which is now considered by the applicable Act on Special Taxation on Alcohol, which has a zero kuna excise duty per litre, therefore wine obtained from grapes. So, by this law, we try to equalize the fruit wines and wines that are obtained from grapes. Namely, the 2003 Wine Act also defines what is considered wine and what is considered fruit wine. According to this law, wine is obtained from grapes, and fruit wine is made from prepared juice or fruit. Therefore, this Law supplementing the Law on Special Tax on Alcohol is proposed to amend the law in such a way that the level of special tax on zero kuna is also prescribed for fruit wines. Namely, since the Law on Special Tax on Alcohol was passed before the now applicable Wine Act, there was a need to address the issue of fruit wines. According to applications for enrolment in the register of producers of grapes and wine and fruit wines in the Croatian Institute of Winery and Winemaking in Croatia, 76 fruit wine producers are currently registered. Therefore, the additions of the Law on Special Tax on Alcohol are intended to ensure that as much protection as possible of domestic production of fruit wines and that domestically small producers are provided with sales and competitiveness on the wine market. Fruit wines, as I said, have so far been taxed or are still taxed at an amount of 60 kuna per litre of absolute alcohol. The proposal of this law is therefore that fruit wines are taxed on zero kunas, therefore, per litre of absolute alcohol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95799	The committees? I'm opening a debate. PGS, SBH and MBS representatives' club, respected representative Zeljko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95800	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen! Here, I didn't protect copyright so big, so I can't charge this commission for this bill, but well, it doesn't matter. So our club supports this law, supports the intensity of this law, but we also express dissatisfaction because this law has not been passed before, in time, but here, now at the end of this term. There's another suspicion that it's not about the election. As the promoter of this, therefore, the basic Wine Act was passed in 2003. A year before that, i.e. In 2001, the Law on Special Tax on Alcohol and Alcoholic Drinks was passed, which charges us we heard 60 kuna, so on certain quantities of this alcohol. And that tax freed the wine. The wine law in my opinion was defined in the right way, therefore, not to charge taxes on alcohol on fruit wine. Unfortunately, however, the Ministry of Finance did not want to accept this all these years, for three years they refused to accept it, so that fruit wine producers had to pay the taxes on fruit wine production. What should be noted here is that, year after year, such as the adoption of the Law on the Wine of the Producers is increasing more and more, they are currently in Croatia 76, but because of these legal provisions, because of this defeat that they had to pay for the burning in great difficulty because most of them went into the business so that they were credited without counting on paying taxes they didn't have to count on. Unfortunately, they had an inspection, and they accounted for the tax on the production they had to pay for. In this way, the price of their products increased, the price of each bottle of wine increased by 10 to 15%, so from 5 to 10 kuna, and they became uncompetitive especially if we are talking about importing and exporting agricultural products to the Republic of Croatia, and unfortunately, from year to year, we are recording an increasing trade deficit. Here's what's concrete, and from this information that the government has prepared, suggested, as seen. That in 2004, fruit wine production was 42,000 liters, 2005. 45 thousand, that the real boom was created in 2006, that it was over 180 thousand gallons. But what's interesting is that during that time, excise fees have been paid from 2004 to 352 thousand by 2006 billion. And now the question is, what are these people that didn't actually have to pay a million-and-a-half, who didn't have to pay that tax, whether or not these funds would be returned to them in any way? This second table is also interesting where we record the import of fruit wines. This could be said by one of the few examples where imports fall and probably increases exports. Imports were 45 thousand liters in 2004 and 2006. 31 thousand gallons. But I'm saying, many producers warn that with a situation like this, where they have to give a certain amount of money for excise duties, that in such a way they could not keep production for a longer period of time, because it's one imposition, and I say most of them are in debt. It is absurd, therefore, that both the same ministry receive incentives to increase production. An initiative to change this situation, i.e. If that tax had been abolished for several years, we could say from the very adoption of the Wine Act. I was also warned by the wine producers themselves about this problem, so I also referred two parliamentary questions, one to Minister Shuker, the other to Minister Petar Cobankovic. In the spring I therefore proposed in law on behalf of the MDS Club, the PGS, the SBH's amendments to the Wine Act. That law was rejected. And in the seventh month, I immediately proposed the Alcohol Tax Act where I suggested that zero taxes be charged on that part. Well, it might be interesting to draw up opinions from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. The agriculture ministry therefore supported this initiative, and it only stressed that it had on several occasions directed the Ministry of Finance a written instruction on whether it would do something to change the situation. Here, to this day, so until this particular bill, the ministry has not intervened. So it's been four years since the first liquor tax law was passed. Well, let me just quote the answer from the attorney's question, i.e. from the reply of the Ministry of Finance: "Concerned by Mr. Zeljko Pavlic, that fruit wine producers correctly interpret the rules by considering that under the wine they are understood and fruit wines I report that the said claim is incorrect and for which we give an explanation below.". Here, that was the Ministry of Finance's opinion. Fortunately, they changed their minds and proposed a different solution. Perhaps a few words about the overall policy towards winemaking and winemaking in the Republic of Croatia, and one part of it I hope, in time, an even more important part. So, fruit wine production actually represents intensive production and we have to focus our agriculture on intensive production, on producing small series that would therefore be high quality and that would normally have a higher price on the market and would then be more attractive for export. The Ministry of Agriculture also says that Croatia needs to create quality, recognizable and competitive wines again, warning that our wines are currently too expensive. Here, this law will at least reduce the price of fruit wine, I hope. The ministry also points out that producers especially those small ones must organise and reverse quality while large producers should leave the production of table wines. So this is another step towards making quality wines. Also, the fact is that the import of wine growth and the export of wine falls because we failed to make a recognizable image of Croatian wines on foreign markets. I think soon our fruit wines will become a recognizable brand on foreign markets. So allow me another footnote in that context could be said. The same thing, one problem that bothers fruit wine producers and wine producers from threats, which is therefore the famous provision of 0.0 prominence. At first, the manufacturers warned that there would be problems and that Croatia as a tourist country must therefore have the opportunity to have every tourist, each of our citizens has the right to drink a glass of wine or a glass of beer with lunch or with dinner. This would have a significant impact on the increase in wine production and on the development of our agriculture as well as on the increasingly important branches of our economy. And just a little bit to remind myself, to return to this context to the adoption of this road safety law that was at the beginning, is that it will reduce, that its ultimate goal is to reduce the number of traffic accidents and those killed on the roads. Unfortunately, something different happened, that the number of people killed on our roads and the number of accidents on our roads from year to year is increasing. Here's just to illustrate another sentence, the fact that on Croatian roads in 8 months this year 423 people were killed and 36 more people died than in the same period since 2006. Also for the first 8 months of this year, there were 40 thousand 846 traffic accidents, which by 7.1 changed more than in the first 8 months of 2006. Unfortunately, we have not discussed the Road Safety Act until today, although not one but even five seem to me to be the road safety law still on this agenda. These three, four years, we could at least get a chance to discuss what's going on on our roads and what to do to make real safety on our roads rise to a higher level. Unfortunately, it is obvious that these laws will not come to the debate in the Croatian Parliament, but I hope that they will come to the Parliament for a debate at one of the first meetings in the next assembly. Thank you very much. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95801	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Cain and Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac on behalf of the IDS Club. Who wants to go first? A colleague of Caine's. ... And how come you first? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95802	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd like you to meet Mr. MPs. Here's what you see, on page 2 of this argument is literally said, it should be quoted: that the Law on Wine, National Journal No. 96/2003, defines wine as a agricultural food product obtained by an alcohol shower of must, from fresh wine-processing wine-friendly grapes and the same law defines that... Wine, I'm less interested in that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So by the law of wine we correctly define it with a food product. If that's the case, who has the right to defend us from drinking a glass of wine with that absurd 0.0 promila law? Yes, you defend, you defend. [[No one's defending you.]] It is clear that we will support this fruit wine law, which brings fruit wine tax down from 60 kuna to 0 kuna. Clearly, Croatia would be far happier to return to its European queen in terms of the return of the 0.5pm. What the Croatian government has done if I am not mistaken in 2004 that it has banned someone from driving a car with 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, that is clearly disastrous because, as my predecessor said, it has already reduced the number of accidents, while on the other hand, what are we doing? We allow, for example, captains of ships, pilots to fly ships, aircraft with 0.5 proms. And now the normal question is, who's crazy about it? The captain of the ship can, I don't know, drive some tanker with 100 or 150 thousand gross registrations with 0.2 or 0.3 promil, the captain of the plane too and we can't drive the car. The loss of the state budget due to this story is clear about fruit wines, somewhere around 2 million and 66,000 kuna. So the income is insignificant, so it's good to have it abolished. Otherwise for alcohol excises, this is the third-page data, an annual income of around 230 million kunas is available. If opportunities had been normal now, people would not be afraid of repression, and a little more money could be added to the state budget. But what are we gonna do? 0.0 has one devastating effect not only on our winemakers, tourism mainly the cross-border, weekend tourism and much more, and ultimately we see clearly in the budget itself. Now what do we do? This law on these fruit wines. It's a logical law, a good law, but as Mr. Pecek said we have in procedure 4 or 5 of the laws to return 0.5 of the promiscuity. ... Pavlic, Pavlic, Pavlic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] True, for this law, for the 0.0 promila law, it is the same thing to say that they did not only vote in HDZ but also some of the opposition, the opposition. And it needs to be underlined. But so much stubbornness as you gentlemen show in HDZ when it comes to that law is surpassed by the most bizarre imagination. That's what I envy sometimes. And I, when I put something in my head, defend it to the extreme, but this 0.0 bill is harmful. He is wrong and is not at the will of Croatian citizens and therefore needs to be changed. Finally, our 0.5 promiscation IDS bill has even the government's opinion, though negatively, but the only one has the government's opinion. But what's he saying? But what are you gonna do? The problem is elsewhere. The problem is with the President of the Parliament, who abuses the Rules of Procedure and good parliamentary customs, and the Law does not want to put in a parliamentary debate. That's the problem. But not what he says, that opinion [[/Employer: A fellow Cain.]] When I said you were talking about... [[/Intruder: Slowly, slowly.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95803	Comrade Cain, this is the Act supplementing the Law on Special Tax on Alcohol. And this [[I said good-bye to him about those fruit wines.]] Leave inappropriate remarks to my account [[Intruder: And this other one needs to be changed.]] I am working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, like all the other presidents of the Parliament who have worked so far, so discuss this law, not whether the President of the Parliament is working with the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Intruder, intrinsic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95804	They're more interested in this other thing. Otherwise, one more time. As far as this Fruit Wine Act is concerned, we clearly welcome the reduction of tax logic. Taxes in Croatia should be reduced, not introduced new ones. It needs to be reduced, I don't know, VAT on food. Equalize it with the one on the 10% newspaper. To extend the VAT payment period from 30 to 60 days and as far as possible to relieve Croatian citizens as that fruit wine does. So let those who have wrongly acquired the property have nothing to legalize but take away from them. So the law is logical as far as these fruit wines are concerned, but in any case, everything needs to be done and restored to the force of the provision of 0.5 prominence.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95805	Dear Representative Dorothy Pesic-Bukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95806	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I, as well as my colleague Cain, am in favour of the proposal for a tax on alcohol and that it is about these fruit wines. But it seems to me that there is still a lack of coordination among the ministries because the reason for the adoption of this Law is that in some way the producers of these wines are being disbursed, and also to create some kind of, some conditions for better wine sales that they are not too expensive. And on the other hand, we also pass laws that fill our basements and fail to sell all the wines made of grapes. So we can say that this Law on the Taxation of Alcohol is, however, the correction of injustice against fruit wine producers who are also in this way in debt wanted to make their contribution to the development of domestic indigenous products, namely agrotourism and other offers. If it had been reasonable, we could have passed this law in July of the month when it was also proposed by Mr. Pavlic, not that we had to wait for the government to prescribe and pass this Law quickly. So I'm also afraid there may be some kind of bumps like that in the Road Safety Act. I can say that pears and apples are mixed, i.e. two units of measurement that cannot be equated. Whether the MPs are deliberately wronged, whether they are unprofessional people in the ministry, or whether they are aware that they are putting wrong measures into the laws, so not only us, but also all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are wrong. And I can say that in the Republic of Croatia fines are charged illegally, and driver's licenses are also withdrawn. And now I'm going to tell you what this is about. As the pears and apples are mixed, and this is the provision of Article 199. The Transport Safety Act where it says that a fine of 500 kuna to 1,000 kuna will be fined for a driver's offence if the body has 0.5 grams of alcohol per kilogram, i.e. a milligram in a litre of exhaled air. I must warn you that these are quite two different units of measurement and that it is true that 0.5 grams per kilogram is 0.24 milligrams in liters of exhaled air. So if you smoke 0.5, it's not 0.5, it's 0.24. And that may be another reason why that law of ours that's been on the agenda for three years should come on the agenda. As far as the point is concerned, we'll see by the end of the year how many people died because of alcohol, but the trend of the dead is much higher than when the provision of 0.5 of alcohol was in the blood. By 9 months, 429 were killed. We see that the trend remained the same. And so if this trend continues by the end of the year, there will be 670 deaths in transport, which is 9% more than in the previous year. So there's already been confirmation in the last three years that this law hasn't produced any results. And it would indeed be opportunised to discuss one of these laws, by paying our citizens fines that are not due. And if they go to court, you always have to take those units of measures that go in favor of the one who's accused of something like that. Here, once again, I warn you that our Road Safety Act has the wrong units of measurement and that it needs to be corrected as quickly as possible. So 0.5 grams per kilogram is not the same thing as 0.5 milligrams per litre of exhaled air, but 0.24. It means half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95807	Thank you very much. I was supposed to make corrections to incorrect allegations, but my colleague, Dorothy, confused me. So now I'm going to give corrections to incorrect allegations of exposure to Cain. First, respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95808	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd just like to correct Mr. Cain's alleged inaccuracies. He said the government was defending him and the ministry had a glass of wine. No one's defending anyone. But when you have a glass, two or more, don't drive. And in particular, let's hang out in Parliament for three or four years I haven't noticed on you or on me that the government is defending someone from drinking a cup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95809	And the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95810	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Cain cited one false allegation and stated that we are representatives of the Croatian Parliament from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community stubbornly, so we do not want to accept his proposal for law, i.e. amending the law. No, Mr. Caine, that's, that quote is your fault. We consistently implement the law, which is in the interests of most citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and unfortunately because we live in a democratic country, you must obey that applicable law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95811	And the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95812	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of Cain's wrongly claiming to be with us who's crazy and who's smart, which is not true. We always knew that very well. And the contribution of transparency is given by a number of people who notice that on red shirts they say, "I'm smart and I have 0 proms in me," which means that the more they drink, the smarter they are. Which completely reverses the theory of the present, historical theory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95813	And respected representative Vladimir Stengl for correction in relation to the presentation of MP Dorotee Pesic Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95814	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, this remark you put on one and the other units. It's about how to show an instrument where this is calculated first on this second one that the instrument shows. That's it. That's how you calculate it, and the instrument shows the real state.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95815	HDZ representative club, respected representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95816	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The HDZ Club will support this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on specific taxes on alcohol proposed to place fruit wine in the same rank as the taxation of grape wine to which a special tax on alcohol contained in wine of zero kuna will be paid. In this way, the domestic production of fruit wines will be protected in any case and it will be possible for small producers who are, in particular, small producers of these fruit wines to be competitive on the market. We will support this not only because 76 producers are currently listed in the register of fruit wine producers, but also because fruit wine in some European countries, for example France, Germany, Belgium, the Czech Republic is extremely popular, and back in a few years it is visible that there are more and more fans in Croatia. The most famous fruit wines are made from blackberries, raspberries and strawberries. In Croatia, of these 76 manufacturers, the largest number of them are made from blackberries. The fruit wine rule provides for conditions and methods of production, transport, labelling and import and export of these fruit wines, and that regulation also defines that fruit wine is obtained by fermentation of juice or butter of fresh and for this suitable bony, grizzly, strawberry, berries or other fruit, has a minimum content of natural alcohol of 1.2% vol. The production of fruit wines in Croatia until a few years ago was almost insignificant, but now, as has already been said from this pay phone, 76 producers have been registered in the register of grape, wine and fruit wines and all the conditions for this production have been created. All these producers or the vast majority of them produce as I said black wine, and only one small part of them produces raspberries and blackcurrant wine. This amendment of the law to expect a more significant increase in the production and transport of fruit wines as people will also increase production after tax cuts, i.e. tax equalisation in this case of a special tax on alcohol. Fruit wines may also be exported if they meet certain conditions laid down in the regulation, and may be exceptionally exported on the basis of the agreed export quality agreed and agreed with the agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Comparation only. In 2005, this exports amounted to only 2.49 hectares, while in the first six months of this year more than a thousand hectolitres of fruit wines were exported. Imports are almost insignificant in Croatia and that is good, which also means that this amendment of the law that is proposed today will also mean a certain shift in the fact that Croatian fruit wines are found in those countries where fruit wine is also very popular, as I said especially France, Germany, Belgium and the Czech Republic. If we know that this wine has an extremely high popularity in France, it is one way to see where the Croatian market will be opened for the placement of these fruit wines. For all these reasons, it is also certain that there will be more and more raspberries and blackberries in Croatia and that the production of fruit of that kind especially for the production of fruit wine will grow and this is one of the basic reasons why, as I said at the beginning, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95817	Thank you very much. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95818	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear secretary, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. The National Minorities Club will certainly support this law, and we are pleased that the Government finally heard the cry of colleagues Pavlic and its međimurje fruit wine producers, because the production itself, which is three times the best in two years, says that by reducing, or by bringing excise duties to zero, these wines will become more competitive, more competitive not only in Croatia but certainly more competitive in exporting which should be the goal of each country. There's something else that matters. It is precisely by encouraging the production of fruit wines, we certainly do a great service to encourage the most intense cultures, and that is, above all, fruit growing, an area where today we can employ a lot of family economies, secure a job, secure income, but also provide an export product which unfortunately so far Croatia has not had enough. Why am I talking about securing an export product? It is not only a stimulating incentive for the production of raspberries, strawberries that are important only for the production of wine, it is one end product that already has in the Croatian market today and will have it in the European market that knows these wines, but above all I want to warn about the export of fresh, or better to say the fast-frozen fruit that Europe and the world market are looking for today, in which our neighbours today reach $500 million dollars, and I don't see that we in Croatia who have excess agricultural products, an excess of agricultural area, which we really have climate, if we want climates from mountainous, or continental-mountan to that Mediterranean which, at any time, can place on the market of exactly this kind of fruit products, that we are the ones who import almost 50% of fruit today. If we have really allocated funds to encourage such production, if we are trying very late, to encourage irrigation, or to invest funds in irrigation, to invest funds in refrigerators, it is high time to form a stock exchange of agricultural products that will also raise this issue as well as to recognize one brand, as well as exporting exactly the kind of fruit that we can produce as part of this production of whether family economies, whatever they call them, ranches or something else, and I think that this is one of the moves that we really support we are grateful for because 2 million kunas as much as the government loses, and last year if it was, it means only 500 thousand at that time, now it's 2 million when production is 4 times increased, so because of a little loss we were able to fill the budget through employment, but to create a safer basis for the production of this particular fruit that market that is sought and so processed and normally fresh. Therefore, since we are increasing competitiveness, the National Club supports this, but we are sorry it has not been done before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95819	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95820	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the HSS Club also supports that fruit wines should be free from excise duty payments and thus bring them into a competitive position so that they can carry on the market to finally enter the wine family, to be treated in accordance with the Wine Act, it is, in our opinion, one gesture that has found its place in the Amendments and Supplements for a reason. Of course it opens a whole series of questions already by entering the wine family, fruit wines will in some ways share the fate of wine in Croatia. I would say that winemaking and winemaking in the last ten years in Croatia has greatly advanced, it has grown in both content and structure. So the structure of the production of wine in Croatia if we look from continental wines to these coastal wines is developed according to its characteristics, with its cultural differences, it is its market, but I think it is time to seriously consider the wine market system in the Republic of Croatia, the kind of quality control of wine and the other side to think about the consumer market. In fact, often the reason why the wines in Croatia, according to some estimates, are sufficient, and up to 35% remains unsold, is in the basements, which are the reasons for that. The reasons are that the quality of wine consumption in Croatia is not at the level of our expectations, our ambitions and is not at the level of other European countries when it comes to so-called. recorded consumption of quality wines per capita. Therefore, Croatia, with all the advantages it has achieved in some way at this time, and even now this family has joined fruit wines which can of course find its place on the market, can find their place in strengthening production capacity but of course this whole aspect should be seen within a broader position which our wines should first and foremost get on the Croatian market, because we are practically talking about being major wine exporters, I think it is even unnecessary, because the Croatian market is quite enough to spend those quantities we have. The outside market simply does not have enough quantity, so that the external markets, and in case of extra quality of our wines, can in some way satisfy the quantity. I say this Croatia, according to its structure, not only in tourism consumption but in the consumption of all citizens can absorb quite decent quantities of wine, but it is of course necessary to regulate the market. Namely, what's going on? There is one fact that the output prices of wine if you look at them with selling wine prices, as if you're talking about two different categories, now someone's going to say it's in Italy, Spain and France. It's not. In France you even have limited relations with the wine output price in respect of the sale price of wine. It's not about luxury restaurants. It's about wine shops. It's about wine stores. It's about wine shops. In these relations you have established a wine ranking regime and maximum price that can reach the consumer. I say not in elite restaurants, and unfortunately, we also have mediocre wines, so let's not say bad wines, because we're talking about wines here, but we need to know that there are about 30% of paved wines on the market. Unfortunately, some wineries are also prone to pastry wines, wine that are not obtained from grapes or if you want fruit. Therefore, to regulate the wine market is to make a new contribution, in the last 10 years a strong contribution to the development of winemaking and winemaking has been made, a new contribution will be strong in the development of the wine market, quality control of wine and the establishment of consumer rights. Because consumer rights are in Croatia since we have not adequately regulated it very questionable. Therefore, of course, it would help to abolish the "0.0" provision, of course, to also help strengthen market mechanisms in order to establish consumer protection as a beneficiary of these wine products. Of course, one wine ethic would help in this sense, of course, that protection of grape varieties used to obtain wine through the fact that a large number through the soft border with Bosnia and Herzegovina comes not only from our neighbouring country but from Macedonia and other countries, of course, that the establishment of this system can further position Croatia in terms of quality and high quality wines that we have and that we are rich in. But it is necessary to regulate the market and on this market can definitely say that all the quantities produced at this time in Croatia that have the character of quality wines can definitely be sold. It still seems a little strange that last year as regards the import of wine, we imported a lot of wine, and it is actually talking about a space that still exists in Croatia especially about the import of so-called. Rinfusing wines. I think that editing the wine market when we have already helped fruit wines to be found in the family they belong to, we agree absolutely that the wine market would be a new step, a new incentive to brand the best quality wines, a new incentive to allow that wine as a quality food item to be made possible by that quality item, not by the padded, unquality that is available in supermarkets, which is sold in those 5, 10 liters, which is not from Croatia, because it is only repacked, it is put on that little stamp. Therefore, the establishment of this order would further strengthen the position of and winemaking and winemaking in the Republic of Croatia if I did not say that wine is often a challenge that attracts tourists. Namely, wine is one of these unique gastronomic reasons for coming to an area, which can be a motive for coming, which can come up with a tourist offer, which can turn one region from inactive to proactive, which can give so much that one serious tourist offer can be built on it. Of course, this product would be such that it could provide one such value, then it could not be about trying to in any way be something that is what it should be, and that wine is replaced by something that will be paved, imported, mixed, mixed or done in ways that have been done much more recently, I have to say, the absolute quality of wine is increased, the winery is taken very seriously, developed, the science has become involved in this and the basement as a special branch in Croatia has been given to so say the right to vote. This change I say is welcome, the wine family has spread, stepped up, but it's still unprotected. We need to protect her, we need to position her, and we need to put her in line with those sizes that belong. The merchants can't have half, and the producers can't have half. He can't. It just can't be a fact. We must also make the rules of the game very clear, because, of course, small wine producers must act in the market system, this market is ruthless, it is almost monolithic, it is made up of large players who simply blackmail and you can give your wine at 14 kunas to it or by 7, it will sell it again at 60 kunas and it is this pain that we need to get rid of, but the quality and correctness of access and create conditions for the development of winemaking and winemaking in Croatia absolutely needs to be introduced into the second phase. The first phase we skipped, we realized it was a good product, we realized we could do it, we realized we knew. The second step remains to protect it all, to develop those types and vines and the kind of wine that the market accepts to enhance quality and then there will be room for fruit wines, as well as for the entire wine family based on the Wine Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95821	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, visiting the Croatian Parliament is the prominent representative of the Canadian Parliament, Mr Derek Lee, and we warmly welcome him. Let's move on. [[Applause.]] There is an individual debate and a representative of Mr. Slaven Letica. He's gone. Then, Madam Representative Vesna Scare Ozbolt, who also doesn't have one. Then Mr. Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95822	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We know in joke that there is wine and wine from grapes, but seriously there is also fruity, mostly dominated by blackberries which have not been recognised and treated so far in the wine category when it comes to a special tax on alcohol. Fruit wines are not based on applicable rules freed from a special tax on alcohol. Under the bill of this law, that would change. The problem may seem irrelevant in view of the current number of registered producers of these wines in the Republic of Croatia 76. Fruit farming for this purpose certainly deals with a far greater number of people, so there is no negligible total number of people who do so and live in the extreme line of life. Of course, the adoption of this Law, i.e. by abolishing a special tax on alcohol for fruit wines, will not be particularly suspended and is more than symbolic, but will help producers. Overall for domestic production and imports, this amounted to 2006; for domestic production and imports amounted to a million and 600 thousand kuna in 2006. However, the data on paid excise duties for 2004, 2005 and 2006 are interesting and indicative. Domestic production in liters was in 2004. 42,000 liters, 2005. 45, and in 2006. 188 thousand gallons. Imports were in 2004. 45 and 500, in 2005. 17 and 900, and in 2006. 31 grand. Total in 3 years domestic production of 275,000 litres and imports of 94 thousand liters. More than obvious increase in domestic production is a secure upward trend. It also certainly includes exports, an inescapable amount, and, on the other hand, a reduction in imports, although some do not have any clear regularity, and this should also be pointed out about products from permanent plantations, permanent plantations which are one of the particulars of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy and which are profitablely extremely interesting. It is precisely because of the continuing plantations of the issue, the problem must be solved as proposed and therefore it is only to welcome the joint efforts made by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, as well as by the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration. The producers of both fruit and fruit wines are placed in an equal position with other winemakers, i.e. those who are in the large majority and produce grape wine. This also gives security to fruit wine producers and certainly encourages them to further invest, increase the permanent plantations of these cultures, and increase the production of fruit wines, while extremely wanted, with a great possibility of exporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95823	Thank you very much. In the end, Madam Representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95824	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And I join all those who are here, using that saying who is waiting, welcome this solution, which, in any case, will provide an even greater opportunity to sign up to the register of fruit wine producers and an even greater contribution to sales on the domestic market that we have already heard several times increased in these two, three years since being followed, since 2004. And I am not saying that in the large expansion and export of these wines because unlike Croatia, where only recently there is something stronger offer and awareness that fruit wines are healthy and supplemental food, that in some countries of the European Union, France, the Czech Republic, Belgium and some others, this consumption is very large and is participating the total consumption of wine with a far greater percentage of this in us. I am glad, therefore, that the state has decided to give up this part of the revenue for now, while production is still insufficient for me, about 2 million kuna per year, and individually I will tell each of those farms that have the most circumstances in northwestern Croatia, including in our Koprivnica, Križevci County, Međimurje, Virovitski and others, it has not been by chance that the production of wine from orchards grown on these soils which are therefore far more qualitative in this part. And I'd say that, besides these fruit trees, which are repeatedly mentioned and these are blackberries, raspberries there are more excellent wines, our traditional apple drink, so apple wine, cherry wine, rice wine. And that I hope that all of these laws, therefore, and the new regulation that has been passed where order has been introduced, this law where these additional taxes are released, and the excise duty of 60 limes, will therefore, by the law on hospitality that we have recently brought, the Law on Tourism and the Law on crafts, that the small producers that are here will find the largest number of places to increase and produce, to employ members of their households and to specifically enrich the supply of original Croatian products produced on all standards, therefore, those that require food and our tradition and our ecological production of unpolluted and soil and the environment. So here I am, reporting that, on behalf of these producers and from my county, Koprivnica and Križevci thank the Government that after a long fight and proof that fruit wines are wines, there was the same reluctance and that fruit wines do not therefore have to fall under what falls under the production of brandy, vines, cognacs and all those hot drinks, so these 60 limes is a great relief and an increase in the competitiveness of our producers. And for that I thank you for mine and for their sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95825	Thank you very much. Do You Want? No, I don't. [[No, thank you.]] In the name of the government? I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95826	Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Act on Special Tax on Alcohol. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's for fruit wine? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 119 votes for, passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95827	We move to - Final proposal of the law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project "Nova Luka Zadar", emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 784 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure are an emergency procedure, uniting the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Maritime, Development and Reconstruction. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport, Development Mr Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95828	I would like to thank Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! This law confirms the loan guarantee contract negotiated between the European Investment Bank and the Zadar Port Authority for the construction of a new Zadar port in the Gaženica area. The construction of a new passenger ferry terminal in Zadar is of paramount importance for connecting the island of the Central Adriatic, to maintain along the coastal ferry line as well as the regular international ferry line of Zadar – Ancona. The current ferry terminal is not adequate and is located in the very heart of the historic part of the old town of Zadar without the possibility of further quality expansion. There are already a lot of traffic in the port, and the urban plan of Zadar is also intended to move the ferry terminal to another location, and it is close to the existing freight port, which is about three and a half kilometers south of the city centre with excellent access to highways, railways and airport. The 1999 Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia for Zadar has already established that the lack of space at the port conditioned the transfer of ferry traffic to the port of Gazenica, while the construction of a new ferry terminal is foreseen as a priority investment. The last five years have seen a continuous growth in maritime transport in all Croatian ports of freight or passenger traffic, thus total freight traffic in all Croatian ports in 2006 amounted to about 26 and a half million tonnes of freight, and total passenger traffic amounted to about 23 million passengers. The annual rate of passenger traffic growth from 2002 to 2006 is approximately 10%. However, the biggest growth in traffic has been recorded on ships on a circular journey and is about 41%, and international ferry traffic is growing at almost 20%. It should also be pointed out that there is a great interest in Italian and other Mediterranean ports to connect to the Croatian coast, with Croatian ports, in the first part in the development of short coastal sailing, etc. the short sea shipping for which the project is possible to achieve subsidies by means of the European Union. Otherwise, there are about 2 million passengers and more than 300 thousand vehicles at the present city port of Zadar, and in the city port there are about 11 thousand and 200 passengers. The very project of building a new port in Zadar includes engineering project and construction supervision, technical assistance from the project implementation unit, maritime works and the construction of a thousand and 550 metres of port for 12 berths and 300 metres of long docks for the construction of the fishing port, then the construction of access roads towards the city road network and the construction of the basic infrastructure of terminal zones. In the course of 2007, two studies of economic justification were carried out to build the port itself in Gazenica, which is a traffic and financial assessment of the ferry terminal "Zadar" in the port of Gazenica. And another study of the cost-effectiveness of a ferry terminal at the port of Zadar. Both of these studies have shown that the new terminal is justified from a traffic aspect and through the project is well controlled by possible environmental impacts and protects the cultural and historical heritage of the city of Zadar. The total value of the project is estimated at around 220m euros by financing the European Investment Bank through an approved loan of about 100m euros and the project is followed by the German KFE Development Bank with a 120m-euro loan. The payment deadline is twenty-five years, including a five-year start. The beginning of the work was planned for the beginning of 2008 and the end of 2011. By accepting this project, a project of construction or reconstruction or modernisation of all ports of national importance is realised whether it is seaport or river ports. And at this point, there is not a single port of national importance, so from Rijeka, Sibenik, Zadar, Split, Ploč, Dubrovnik, Sisak, Slavonski Brod and Vukovar where we do not implement projects on the construction of port infrared and superstructure. This is how all these projects are invested in the port system in the Republic of Croatia around 750m euros. The construction and reconstruction of all national ports with the completion of other infrastructures such as highways and railways is one of the most competitive transport routes for goods to Central Europe thanks to its geostrategic position of the Adriatic and Danube countries. Since the nature of the process of confirming international contracts as well as the fact that at this stage of the procedure, in general, the signed international contract, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that this law be adopted by means of an urgent procedure uniting first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95829	Thank you very much. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, we have Mr Damir Cain and Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95830	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Here's how it is, from 2001 to 2007. The European Investment Bank has funded fourteen projects with 1 billion and 95m euros. In Istria, it doesn't feel good. Perhaps two, three million, Mr. Kovacevic, has come to rebuild some roads. This loan tangs the new port of Zadar in Gaženica, to Gaženica. Calmeta pulled the road heavy somewhere around 450 million kuna. The value of this new port as spoken by the State Secretary is 220m euros. This loan, more specifically, is worth 100m euros. The payment deadline is 25 years, the borrower is the Port Authority of Zadar, the guarantee is the Republic of Croatia, the fixed interest is 4.672% per year. What is surprising, however, is the incredible ease of sending funds from the country towards Zadar or Split. I know these are important HDZ electoral units but Croatia is not only Zadar, it is not just Split-Dalmatia County. True, a 40m-euro loan or 300m kuna was granted also to Rijekaport. Yesterday, if I'm not mistaken, we ratified him. But how do we realize or better revitalize and some ports in Istria whether it's Bršica or Pula. These 100m euros, which are now in question and going to Zadar, will have to return the port of Zadar, but 100m euros will go to Zadar, which is the amount of up to 220m euros from the state budget. For example, 150 million euros would be the price of a train tunnel through Učka. That railway means a tunnel that should be built one day, which would revitalise the port in Rijeka and would definitely become the railway centre of this part of Europe, but it is clearly not in the state plans that up to two thousand do not know which twelve or thirteen years. It is clear that Istria would come to its own, more specifically the Istrian economy but let no one in this House forget that the only county whose industry is first in the total gross social product is the County of Istria, industry somewhere around 35% and tourism is only third with 10%, although all Istria sees as a dominant tourist destination. Zadar is in God’s place geographically, a beautiful city. The fate of Zadar, the warring one, was the most similar to Ingrid of Istria and I am glad that the city is rapidly developing, but other cities also need to get their chance, not that all the money from the budget goes where HDZ is in power. Mr. Lino Cervar, here comes I am pleased, he calculated that four years in Istria went 2.7 billion kuna from the state budget but he did not say that Istra gave 40 billion kuna to the state budget and even less that 2.7 billion kuna is worth three sports halls in Osijek. And then, what do we have to do? We must then build halls for 80 million kunas, not for 800 or 900 million kuna. Well, then I'm asking myself how much black money there is in those 900 million kunas. What's still agreed when it comes to Zadar? Moving the railroad through Bibinje by digging a tunnel about three kilometers. I'm 100% in, 100%. But watch out, somebody can't direct 8 billion kunas to the river-Zagreb lowline, not to single out funds for, say, this train tunnel through Učka. On the contrary, it must be or become an all-Croatian priority plus a clear connection on the railway near Koper that will soon connect with Trieste. If Prime Minister Sanader and Mr Jansa are such good friends, then Slovenia will finally make it possible for Croatia to also provide road and rail connections, and another Koper port may soon be taken over by Deutsche Bahn and more than the burden of the river will be poured over to Koper or Trieste, and that is why it should be advocated for the train tunnel through Učka. On this occasion, I will again apostrophe the case of Bršica port, which is entirely part of the Rijeka port, which has not given any kuna in the last 17 years. Just before I heard, I didn't know about this information, says the secretary of state that for revitalising the ports of the sea or continental river, it doesn't matter, the state will single out 750m euros. In Istria, Mr. Secretary of State, you can nod your head for as long as you like, not a single kuna, not a single June, not a single euro. And that's what insults. I agree, as Zadar port got I don't know 500km of kuna worth that auto-road date, so the Rijeka port got that connection to Bakru, about 500, and so millions of kunas and it will go later for the Yellow Lock, but also Rasa or Brsica or Pula did not get a single kuna as if these two ports were not located in the Republic of Croatia. I repeat again. The State will direct this port EUR 100 million from the budget. Exactly the fact that this government directed Zadar maybe 4, maybe 5 billion kuna, not to mention all the projects now, made it possible for the city to develop quickly. You can tell that too. But I repeat Croatia is not only Zadar, it is not only Split or I do not know any other place where the Prime Minister or Minister of Transport and Communications comes from. It would also be good to see how much money goes towards some other regions. How many of these regions they put into the State budget. How little money is unfortunately paid to some where HDZ is not in power to return. Tea [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95831	Mrs. Dorotea Pesic continues. ... When they're done, you'll be there. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95832	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. So here is this project relating to the shift of a ferry terminal located in the centre of the historic old city centre of Zadar and the construction of a new ferry port at another location, in Galženica I can certainly welcome. There's no reason not to do that in the city of Zadar. But the entire, whole infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia was not built in the right way because money is transferred not according to needs but according to similarity. In addition to the insurance of transport that the new port will provide in Zadar or Split where the government has given its consent to borrowing 60 million for a detour built on the 2020 traffic projection, which is good not to wait but to solve the problem of traffic in due time. But then what to say about the Rijeka bypass which has become a city road, a narrow throat because other than the people of Rijeka and the surrounding area, all tourist traffic passes by? The daily traffic average is between 35 and 40,000 vehicles. We also know the highway to Dalmatia is long gone. Until the one from Zagreb to Rijeka is not and will not yet, and we know it is the breadth of the housewives. Not to mention something abstract and absurd that we don't have a mile of highway in Istria. If we go to see how much financial burden the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have to put together and say that through the Učka tunnel which is 5 kilometers long we pay 28 kuna, the bridge or viaduct via Mirna is 1 kilometer we pay 14 kuna. So for a total of six and a half kilometers, the Istrians have to pay 42 kuna. Here's what Mr. Cervar can confirm when he goes to Umag he has so much to pay the stock from Rijeka to Umag With VAT, yes, without VAT because they're free of VAT. [[/Intruder: No VAT?]] As far as the port is concerned, I must remind you that the port of Rijeka is the largest in Croatia. That now she has signed a contract that once a week, the largest ship carrying containers comes to the container terminal. But that doesn't seem to mean anything to the government or state-owned enterprises. Now I'm just going to quote a piece of the article that came out in the New List where it was explored why the D-404 road will not be finished at the end of this year as it was only in 2009. For 4 years, Croatian railways and Croatian roads have been making compensations for the passage of the road D-404 to the Delta and Brajdice area and could be easily classified in Gunes' book of records that if there were a special category of potability and incompetence in the realisation of road or other infrastructure projects. Despite the growing problems with lack of space in Braidica, which is stifled with containers D-404 which would significantly facilitate the whole situation for years has been incomplete. Waiting for two state-owned companies to reach any reasonable deal. The situation is even worse because according to the latest results of the HZ and HC negotiations, a catastrophic bad and completely unreasonable agreement could result in a further extension of the D-404 road construction for several years. Somewhere until the second half of 2009. In this regard, it does not matter at all that long ago built the hardest buildings on the road D-404 tunnel and the viaduct of Bob, the longest cave tunnel and the viaduct of Brajdica that have absolutely no purpose because the building's easiest stock on the delta has not moved from the dead spot because of the internality as I have already told HZ and HC. So so far, the whole work on road construction has become an example of investing a lot of money in a completely useless project for now. Here, perhaps in another way, I am plagued by this debt to the port of Zadar. It is said that 100 million is given from the European Investment Bank but the whole project is 220 million and the other 120 million is followed by the German Development Bank with a 120 loan means millions. I'm interested in who else has given consent to that 120 million and more debts to this port. I would recommend indeed to your Ministry and Government that indeed Croatian infrastructure and infrastructure problems are resolved in one appropriate way because what is now done is not really appropriate. Not to mention the Peljesac Bridge and all the other projects heading south. 'Cause it looks like all roads are heading south.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95833	Thank you. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95834	Well, colleague Cain has also insisted, citing the very example of Zadar, that this government invests the most exactly where the HDZ is in power, I say, and he mentioned the city of Zadar. As far as the city of Zadar is concerned, it is simply not true, because it is most invested, these are relevant indicators, therefore data that are at all times verifiable that the most invested in the city of Zadar itself, so in the city over 3,000 years old right during the coalition government. But the other thing is, it is true that a colleague claimed that Cain was then actually not looking at who was in power in local units but whether they were good projects and whether it was really Croatia's priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95835	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, in a bar, discuss it, not throw it here. Ms. Mirjana Brnadić, here's your correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95836	Thank you very much. Here, colleague Cain said that all HDZ money only invests where it is in power. So I would convince him immediately to tell him that HDZ has invested more in the Primorje-Gorski County than any government has ever invested before. And HDZ, that's what adorns this government, really invests evenly in all the cities and municipalities in Croatia. And that's what's most valuable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95837	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95838	Well, Mr. Vice President, I'd rather congratulate my opponent on political Mrs. Ingrid's birthday, that's right. And I would have corrected otherwise, I would have corrected Mr Cain's incorrect claim that the Croatian Democratic Community only invests where it is in power. That's not true. However, when Mr Cain heard that the Croatian Democratic Community has invested 2 billion 700 million immediately on its fingers in the last 4 years in Istria County and wants to deny it. And his president said yesterday at the interview that the Istrian County should only give ideas, and the government should give to the school. And what's the difference between this government and the last government where you were a member? It's, you had some ideas, but you didn't get the scholarships. We give students and ideas. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95839	Thank you. And Mr. Shime Wrestler, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95840	Thank you. A colleague of Dorotea said a very harsh lie when she said that the funds were not distributed not on demand but on similarity. It's really one big lie. Why? Why? What time? ... Not by similarity but by the end of Zadar, she forgot by war with Vukovar and some areas most in Croatia suffered, in which everything was destroyed. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Not to mention old times when Zadar was completely trafficked and otherwise isolated. So it should obviously be permanent. So whoever has the projects, he's going to go to the government any one, especially when he has his teammates, and he's going to realize his projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95841	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95842	Dear Mr. Vice President, he probably just entered the Assembly, so he doesn't know what's going on here at the plenary session. Because according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 209 and all the other articles could not, in any case, correct my exact claim because it was not called upon, for I did not debate. I was correcting my colleague Cain's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95843	Why do you think, Madam Representative, why do you think Mrs. Representatives thought and imagined that you were fit? ... The correction of the incorrect allegations went towards the debate of MP Dorotea Pesic-Bukovic and it is not correct to raise a staff on the injury of the Rules of Procedure because there are obviously other representatives and MPs other than you in this House, in this House. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative of the Arthrial Shima. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95844	Here's Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. That I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, present the reasons why we support this project, but last week we forgot to support the Rijeka bypass project, as we will in the next, second or third points support the Gas Acro project and many other projects. On this particular case, I want to prove and confirm several thesiss for which there is clearly already patience or animosity as far as Zadar or that space is concerned. Everyone forgets Zadar's in II. The World War was the most devastating city in Croatia, and probably in Europe as well. Also some forget that Zadar is unfortunately its price so - called. Nationalism in '71. It's hard to pay. And all we want is what we have today and nothing more than that. Equally, in this unfortunate Homeland War, Zadar had a very difficult price to pay for the creation of a Croatian state because the Chetniks were in town, within the city's borders. In this way, Zadar experienced severe injuries and destruction, and since the first day of the 1990s, he began to work his development strategy in the future as soon as the war ended and in the period behind it at the time of reconstruction. In the post-industrial period that we knew was passing and coming some new times we were working on development strategies in that area to enable the development of special tourism, which we all swear is a strategic national branch. And for this tourism, basic preconditions, preconditions for water supply, energy and all forms of transport need to be resolved. So it joined to make the so-called. integration of transport, which means integration of maritime, land, including rail and road transport and air traffic. It is these projects that are later personalised through implementation projects, and it should be known to all of us that the EIB or any other bank is not able to place ideas but rather complete technical projects that are being evaluated and only after the estimated technical projects have been approved. And the government is a mediator, the government can thus support those who have such prepared and completed projects. And stories about how Zadar is developing now are probably stories for some other reasons, because here in this time of month and a few days comes elections. But right here, it can be confirmed that in this area of traffic development, the Croatian government is currently developing evenly in the Croatian state. It is also about investment, investment in all maritime and river ports, so state ports, and it is also about roads when we see and say, I repeat, a river case when we from HDZ think it is the main route of Croatia Zagreb-Rjeka with all other ingredients. Some have forgotten that earlier and all previous governments have approved and developed the South when the Plot Rivers also provided credit and guarantees when it comes to one, the other, the third or any government. Therefore, such a balanced development of traffic is possible as traffic needs to be developed in the time to come, and we will see later in the report in the half-yearly code of performance and behaviour of the deficit, in the case of the goods import deficits, that the main alignment is achieved with the surplus services. Among the services is tourism and transport elsewhere. Thus, it is proved here that the government is also developing the transport sector equally evenly, including in the port of the sea. Through this third segment, which we can also very elegantly reject any insinuation, which is an extremely good co-operation between the government and local self-government. My colleague Ingrid, I'm just going to mention it here, before she said the previous government invested. And I told the late Racan that no matter how many projects we solve, we still have at least five times as many projects. What does that mean? That if local self-government prepares well and manages local projects, but that means technically implemented with the physibilities of studies, then it's no problem to support such projects. In this case, the government has now done so, supporting projects that have already been completed and already prepared and thus enables development and maritime transport. And why, this is not just about, this is about complementary content, which is tourist services, i.e. a tourist ferry terminal, but it is also about that goods terminal that equally makes the fishing port the whole that is then integrated into the shortest points, and this is probably going to be one of the best integrated traffic in Croatia, which is proud of us. We thank the government and we of HDZ absolutely support this, as we will fight for all other ports, i.e. for the even development of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95845	Thank you. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95846	Well, I would like to correct the inaccuracies of my colleagues that the Government is developing Croatia evenly. And secondly, to invest where there are projects. You had a project on the second track of the long Selo – Križevci – Botovo – Koprivnica, four years standing in your drawer. You had... Yes, yes, Government. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This government had it. You've been welcomed by the project. You had a fast road project Vrbovec – Gradec – Military Kloštar, standing in your drawer, you didn't even get a building permit. So he's got ideas, he's got projects, he's got everything, but all the money goes to Zadar. None of it came to Koprivnica. Unfortunately, Koprivnica also has needs, has projects, but has remained insulated in traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95847	The second correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95848	So my correction is going to correct the claim that the government is evenly developing the transport sector. It's simply not true, because on the one hand in some counties are developing megalomanic projects, here is already mentioned building a bridge... they can mention the construction of a tunnel in Split-Dalmatia County that would cost 850 million kuna, etc. etc. [[You don't understand.]] On the other hand, we have a County of Međimurje in which no single project will be launched in 2007 and 2008. To answer the parliamentary question, therefore, what will be built in Međimurje County as regards transport infrastructure. In 2007, I received information that 100,000 kunas were separated for the crossing of the town of Čakovec. This bypass has been built long ago, so only a built project has to be paid. Also 2 million and 900 thousand kuna for the bridge via Mura which was also built this year and last year and released into traffic. So there is not one single project regarding the Međimurje County, and needs are extremely high. Here's today we had a few days ago and a reaction from citizens in the Police Centre, unfortunately no one's looking back on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95849	Thank you. Mr. Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95850	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague of the Luggage said that when Zadar was mentioned, he was speaking with some kind of animosity. That's not true. I'll tell you one example. A major step forward for the promotion of Croatian tourism in the city of Zadar was made when sea organ was being made. I am convinced that one such thing is certainly good for promoting Croatian tourism. However, the problem is that some areas are neglected in relation to what they contribute to the state budget, and in this case I am talking about Istria, although we are already talking about ports, I will say that the ferry port of Brestova that has been failing for years, which is the nearest port that connects the mainland with the islands of Cres and Lošinj, simply does not have that function that it should have. On the other hand, every year I make an amendment to the state budget to help the port administration of Rabac to finally bring the port of Brestova into a situation so that it resembles this part of how the Zadar port wants to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95851	Thank you. And another correction, Mr. Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95852	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting the incorrect quote of an esteemed colleague of the Luggage who is talking about the even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, this government has stopped the development or rather unequal development of many parts of the Republic of Croatia, including Brod-Posavina County, and Slavonia in particular. I know what war destruction was in Zadar and in the hinterland, unfortunately Slavonia, and among them Slavonski Brod was also severely injured in the war. But there is no development, no development stopped, no economic development, no development of Đura Djakovic, who was the bearer of development. There's no investment in infrastructure. The example is, before the highway is made, here will reach the Maltena and Dubrovnik, rather than the West Vesna road will be finished. We've got 200 meters left, we don't know when they'll do it unless these days the works start before the election and so on. So not only did she stop, not only did she develop unequally but she stopped the development of Slavonia especially.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95853	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the SDP club, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic, whom I also join in congratulating her birthday.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95854	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a respected secretary of state, a colleague and a colleague. There is no doubt that the project relating to the shift of a ferry terminal located in the heart of the historic old town centre of Zadar is not only vital for the city of Zadar itself, for Zadar County but for Croatia as a whole. Because Zadar was changing government at the state level but Zadar never really sought what was not the Croatian priority. The debate has already begun here whether this Government or the former has given more to Zadar and Zadar end, it is important that it must not be seen whether the same authorities are at the local state level, but I am just saying that it takes care of good projects and priorities that are important both for the region and for the whole of Croatia. And there is no doubt that the construction of the Zagreb-Split highway has just predicted the Zadar port, i.e. the port of Gazenica, which is better known to the Croatian public, should have become one of the main Croatian ports. It should also be noted, which is mentioned in the proposal for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project "New port of Zadar" coloquyal Gaženica, which requires 100 million kuna, that I say that the total value of the project will cost 220 million euros and 120 million kuna is currently being requested, i.e. that the project is being monitored by the German Development Bank with these funds. It should be noted that the transport development strategy of the Republic of Croatia has since 1999 identified a lack of space in the port that has also conditioned the transfer of ferry traffic from the city port to the port of Gazenica. It should also be pointed out that it is not listed here, I don't know why these historical truths are being silenced, so we often remember the history of the 7th century and we don't remember what happened three or four years ago, but that well, we won't be adjudicating any other states, but it's illogical that we don't remember what happened in 2003 when this project started, and the state then gave the initial 6 million kuna from the state budget for the production of professional studies. Likewise the investors were proposed, were also Zadar County, in this was our fellow representative then mayor, and were scheduled to use and funds from the Fund for Development, no more Fund. But it was also planned to obtain funds from foreign investors. There is no doubt that Gaženica port is of strategic importance, not only for Zadar County but for all of Croatia. And in fact, this may be an opportunity before I say something very concrete that Croatia should not be distracted from the mind, that Croatia should be especially while this time, waiting or preparing to enter the European Union, should build as many ports as possible to accept ships of particular maritime transport and cargo of ships as it is generally known that the transport of goods by ships is still the cheapest, and transport to European countries here on the Adriatic is much closer than, for example, from ports in Hamburg or Rotterdam and even the route to the Suez Canal. So, the position of our part of the Adriatic which is deepestly buried in the bay on the Mediterranean gives us ideal conditions for building and developing ports. Natural conditions allow us, we must not interfere with this time of day, 10 times the amount of port traffic we have so far, so we should now build new ports or expand existing ports. Especially this port in Zadar, in Gaženica is important primarily for container and... traffic and then further leads and necessarily must lead to the development of rail traffic. And now the question is something that is quite logical, these are huge resources that we are going to approve here today, confirm this Treaty by law, and Croatia will be in debt. Of course the basic question is where do these funds go? We know they're going for this project, now that we know it but we don't know anything else, and it remains the main puzzle until today, and Zadar and Zadar County are shaking and Croatia with it, for 2, 3 months. Two full months. Why does this remain the main puzzle and not just on political and economic occasions, who is the new owner of the port? 30. 8. In 2007, so after it was reported that Zadar port had been sold, the government had just granted a guarantee to the port administration for 120m euros that is the German Development Bank's debt. Local entrepreneurs, precisely because it's interesting to people, want to know, and it's natural to know and why it's being guarded, so it's particularly intrigued people there's no doubt that she was in private hands but that she was resold but people want to know who she owns. Local entrepreneurs who bought shares are known, and they claim that the transaction was carried out by the capital of an foreign fund. Now the question is, who owns it? They promised to discover the owners so our media reported, but it's still the main puzzle. The most carefully kept secret in Croatia. We all know, there's not nearly who we are, we all know who owns any doghouse but we don't know who owns the Zadar port. And I repeat that the news of the sale of Zadar's port has caused a consternation, and not only in Zadar, because this whole infrastructure that we're talking about, which is being invested in, gives the public the right to know that for ten million, or who for ten million kuna, 51% of the shares sold or bought its property. People are just out of the blue because the towers are talking, because people are looking for the truth that it was sold to the competitive Slovenian port of Kopar. Then when you put it together, one of the shareholders said a few months ago, maybe a year ago, and the unsub didn't call, he flew the car into the air. Therefore, panic and absurdity are justified because I repeat the Croatian government for the past years and the past government and this continues to invest billions of kuna taxpayers in road construction and in total here is the arrangement of the Zadar port, and we are wondering now how it is done, or whether it is in the interest of the first Croatian competitor of the Koper port with which the Rijeka port is primarily running an open competition in the fight for each tonne of cargo. Here I am saying that the absurdity of the team is greater than we are asked here, the government is proposing and it is not questionable to support such a project at all, but it is logical, therefore, that the Government then offers an answer to this question, which is why and who will benefit most from this enormous investment that will be in charge, which is in charge of Croatia, or its citizens. I think it's an entirely legitimate question and there's no reason, there shouldn't be any reason to keep that from the citizens. That's number one. And secondly, as the legal duty of the state, it has all the mechanisms, it has been bound by the Ministry of Finance for many years now, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering whose results never had the opportunity to get to know the public, though not before, it should indeed be said that for a number of years now, and the question arises at all whether this Office should function more at all with the Ministry of Finance, and why it should not join it, or with the reinforced forces itself, the USKOK, or a specialised institution at the State's Attorney's Office. According to all anti-corruption regulations, and one of these is exactly the regulation under which the state, through its own mechanisms, checks the body's obligation to check every investment, hence the individual, and thus the more natural person who represents more than 200 thousand kunas. Therefore, the question arises whether this transaction, which no doubt, is sold for which amount, is verified by the basis of positive legal rules. Mr Secretary of State, please make sure you have checked whether or not you have any knowledge of whether you have checked this investment, or whether this transaction is above the amount you invest, or which transaction you have to verify on official duty. Not you personally, but the institutions of power. Therefore, there is no doubt that whoever bought the unknown someone, that the price of those shares, therefore his investment for which it remains unknown, what kind of investment it is, is hostile, is it friendly, whose capital, what capital it is, so far we do not yet have the unknown, and it seems to be unverified capital. And so, precisely because of these enormous investments, they will obviously have someone third, and at the expense of domestic companies. It is also a national issue and protection of national interests. The protection of national interests now more at this moment at the entry of Croatia on the very threshold of the European Union, i.e. at the door of the European Union, are no longer issues from the last decade, but above all, the national issue, but not only of Croatia but also of one Germany, is precisely economic development. Therefore, Mrs Angela Merkel, although her country is a member of the European Union, is very concerned about German companies, for the German economy. National interest is not our unnecessary bickering of some of the issues that we think are once solved, and then by changing political structures, they become active again. We leave these questions behind. Today's national interest is the protection of Croatian-owned companies. So we are here asking on behalf of the SDP club who owns the Zadar port, which is why and for whom Croatia invests and is in debt to such enormous investments? We welcome this investment, it is necessary, but if we know, we have the right to know, the public has the right to know who owns it, who bought it, and who will have, in fact, objectively because of this investment's most interest in this investment, not to mention building exactly which has not been planned in recent years, but just the last year, there has been a realisation, I also welcome the four-way roads from the Gagenica highway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95855	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95856	Thank you very much. My colleague, it is incorrect that there is no longer a Fund for Development. The Development Fund exists and it is possible that this project is financed and partly from these or similar sources, but what is the main problem here? Here is the main problem that in a week in Parliament, we will raise our hands by 220 million to support the construction of the new port of Zadar without knowing the owner, while also raising our hands by 190 million kuna for Plinacro in order to build a pipeline. So 410 million we'll raise our hands or 3 billion kuna of a new external debt. Here is the pre-election time for the Croatian state despite 30 billion external debt is additionally due by over 3 billion or 3% of the budget in just a week. I see it as a problem to work out in foreign banks, not to use domestic resources for good projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95857	Another correction, Mr. Shime Wretch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95858	So here are two inaccuracies, now colleague Anticevic, I'm talking to her, and not before I haven't said it, and when she says I'm starting from the last that the fast road of Gagenica, the highway wasn't planned. Perhaps a colleague does not know that, because the County of Zadar in its spatial plan, which was the first to adopt a corridor in Croatia, and four years ago established the priority of highway construction, highway merger and Zadar 2 hub as the eastern waterway. And the second inaccuracy, probably on purpose, almost all the exposure was devoted and said that the port of Zadar had been sold. You could and probably everyone thought it was this loan, because it was this loan. It's not true that the state port was sold to a coma. She's state-of-the-art. This whole loan is about the state harbor, not the unknown thieves you've been talking about here all along. And the port "Zadar", that stock companies has sold and the government has no instruments on the stock exchange, and you as a lawyer know very well, there are no instruments to control the traffic of shares on the stock market, nor can the government answer who executed the traffic on the stock market, because there is no right to direct control on the stock market. And only by the inflow of funds, but not again, to whom the funds went, but in that part of the state budget that... may perform or that part of the money laundering that is already going through a known process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, completely two incorrect... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95859	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Anticevic Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95860	A fellow Wrestler was injured by the Rules of Procedure, a provision in Article 209 because he was correcting something that I did not maintain. I've exactly made a distinction between the construction of a passenger port and the future container terminal in "Gagenica" which is this project, but I've been looking for the answer which is so, who sold it, or who bought the port in "Gagenica". And we all know that this does not apply to this port or to this project of the passenger port and the future container terminal in Gazenica, but I have also made it very clear that the new owner will benefit from such an investment, so there is no doubt about the four-way investment. And logically, that's the question. I don't know, I thought you'd still support it, to find out who owns that port. And what's the secret anyway? Croatia needs to know that. If he knows who's sending an e-mail, which server, someone needs to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95861	Thank you. Thank you very much. This is about investing in this port and you've connected those two issues. So... That Mr. Chest correctly corrected the incorrect assumption. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But let's move on. It is next to the club HSLS and Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95862	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The speakers speak out loud. No one to take this pen already, no one left it, no one to take it with them. Like this, dear colleagues and colleagues! Almost on the trail of what counterpart Pecek noticed earlier, we are almost sorry that in Croatia elections are not every month. That every month it is obvious that this projection would then be achieved that Croatia is developing evenly, so that indeed all the spaces in Croatia are equally valorised. I really do, I think and I don't want to, and I won't prove that I see Croatia as a whole and I'm glad to develop every city, every region, every county, but about that, we could see that there are some that are more equal and some that go better than others in that story. And it's not good when it has a political or party omen. After all, we come here, however, from some concrete environments and certainly those environments, those people who give us trust also ask us to make sure that their problems, their own end, our own space to present in the right way here and try to get exactly, that is, to get into all those macro-projects, important projects, especially where the state participates. I could do a quiz question here, and I'm not sure I'm gonna get an answer. But here, I'll ask, I have to ask someone, the secretary of state, for these colleagues I suppose, or I didn't know him either. What port in the former state after the river was the largest? ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Osijek. Here, look. The port of Osijek was visible. I must admit, too, that I remained pleasantly surprised. And now certainly, yes, pleasantly surprised, it was like this, precisely because these are things that are kind of being... What you said was "Ploche, Kopar or so on," or more, so now, that's exactly what I'm saying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's amazing actually, it's been amazing for 17 years, I don't know how much the government has changed, we have big promises, it's always, really good. I remember that I was still very small when I read about the Danube-Sava channel, exactly right, it's all there, about the Danube, or about the Danube maritime concept of development even in the former state, and that's how time passes, and I actually have to read in some old books that the Emotions could travel by steamboat to Vienna. Well, look. And now about what's like, now I'm asking. What does it mean to us, Drava, what does it mean to us, the Danube, what does it mean to us, Sava? ... You mean Austro-Hungarian. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. Yeah, well, right now we're the real question. And in schools, we learned that it was the same state that exploited us, and then we talked about that Austro-Hungarian or Austro-Hungarian settlement and all those things that were mentioned like this. And when you take a closer look at it this way, then you see that all the railway stations, the railway lines and the ports on the Adriatic, the Mediterranean, were built at that time. And that in the meantime God knows what changed for the better. ... They're not inappropriate illusions, they're not and I'm not suffering from any of these... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Nostalgia, but we're just actually talking about how we actually ideologically knew to be very... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And some things to forget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we are now in a position to change things then it comes to the right plan that our development of Croatia is uneven. Imbalanced. And that's something that you now here as much as you are, you're having an integral experience of seeing Croatia as a whole. And how glad am I to be developing Zadar and how glad I am to be developing and port in Zadar and to all, and that these roads towards Dubrovnik, all of us are very happy but you also have to count on you to come before your constituents and ask what you have done for them in this House? And they're expecting it right now. Not just speaking, no, but speaking. And you know what's most tragic? When you have to lobby. When you have to lobby for something that should actually be normal. I don't mind always saying that I don't know, that tourism will be a priority this year. But I'd like to see pretty much when it's going to be the agricultural one, the one where he's going to be the priority. Is that 2008, 2009, 2010, but to be a priority. And that we know that's gonna happen. And you actually see just like this, this kind of policy that potentials such a single party label, I'll look at it, you remember two years ago here, I think in 2005 at 2006 there was a budget. I defended that budget because perhaps for the first time he had predicted something more for the city of Osijek and for that space. I just had to defend myself. It would have been really and inappropriate if I hadn't defended it. Here's what I know about the same thing that needs a river bypass, that it's also very important. But let's just say, I couldn't agree to it five, six years ago when you couldn't get about ten million kunas for the reconstruction of the Ossetian bypasses and I don't know at the same time spent a billion kuna on the river. These are the things you know because you're also responding to some constituency. I don't know, when the Rijeka Bank is rehabilitated, but when you miss some Slavonian banks, then the County goes to waste, then the City collapses, so Cibalia goes to waste, that's a few things. And I've always said, again, I'm not going into management, it's not my job as a politician, but focus should be on saving and the savings of the Rijeka Bank or the savings of the City Bank, or the savings of the County Bank must have the same relationship, the same treatment. I'm afraid that hasn't happened. And I really have to do the same thing right now, and I'm not going in here, and I can't, and I'm not Zadranin, so I want to know if it is, who owns it, or who's obviously some non-transparent moment in this whole story. But what I would really like to plead and that is certainly not to have a declarative view of... Development and when we come into a position then we actually act campaignist after all, then the place we come from is the most important place, from the region from which we come is the most important region. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in fact, we don't think it's happening and how it reflects on other spaces that are constantly lagging behind. And that, here's colleague Gavran said something, colleague Pecek, and I've been saying here for quite some time in Parliament the same thing about the absence of this space in eastern Croatia that hurts, which is unacceptable, and what is also unacceptable to all of us regardless of which of which we are parties to any project, no investment in Croatia must have party... As it is not party money, it is the taxpayers' money of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is an alphabet, but unfortunately we all like to cut, open and experience it as if we were giving it to Croatia. No, it's our responsibility. You have received a mandate, there must be some work plan in that term, there must be years when this project is being done, that project. But about truly this even development is something that matters. And what we always feel in a story like this, the road lobby has won the railroad and this port. That's what you see with the railroads, we're going slow, and I'm afraid we're not on the best track. And what I would like from a fellow Churchman to see is a study that will convince me that this is and that I'm wrong. I'd like to see that. Or vice versa, to confirm what I'm saying and it seems to me, not to say that this is inadmissible for you to drive around Croatia and come before Učka, so that... It's not worth it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're driving around the Zagorje Master's Department, so this... It's not worth it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are all things, and in Croatian highways you bought a device that should allow you not to go to these checkouts and pass freely. No, but there are some concessionaries, there are some who are just like before, we talked about those who, oligarchs, tycoons, tycoons who actually used all of this transition and brought it to this situation that we have. So it's not my voice's problem and for Zadar, I have special feelings for that city. In his better days, Aralica wrote that he saw actually Croatia between Zadar, Osijek and Zagreb, some triangle had. I don't know what he meant by that, but it was nice to me in those 1990s when he said it. And he even said, I didn't know what it meant but he was about to locate this one if nothing else this dispersive Croatia, Croatia which. Look, this is our size that Croatia is not only Zagreb, Zagreb is not what Paris means for France because our history is what it is, we must accept it as such. But this very development of many cities, the existence of city statutes, and at this moment the city of Zadar has no authority over the port, and the city of Osijek has no authority over the port of Osijek, no city. These are the same things that are kind of hard for you to explain to the citizens. Because they didn't choose you not to have an ingenuity, but rather the opposite, so that you can make decisions and very often decisions are made elsewhere. So let me say this. I'd just like the elections every month then you'd really like some... Which are worse, and not like this we're going to raise, by 410 million euros we're going to raise our hands and I'm not going to analyze this here as well as how we have a good relationship with this bank and these fourteen projects, then really some results would be devastating. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I mean in the end, if I'm manipulating someone and I'm trying to be politically attracted to someone, but I think the facts here speak more than any of my speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95863	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95864	It is no accident that it is not left for Zlatko Kramarić. He is fully luxuried because he cares about the Croatian sea. But my colleague, I would like to correct this scandalous allegation of your fellow Aralica, who claims that Croatia, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, is between Zadar, Istria and Osijek. It's no accident that he's like... I forgot the whole Adriatic. [[You don't understand the speaker.]] It's a tragedy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95865	The second correction of Mr. Shime Wrestler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95866	Here's a colleague of Kramariæ, one I'll say inaccuracy, absolutely with that and correction. He says when we come to power, we don't care about others. That's not true. That it is not exactly the best example when the Croatian government when it was part of HDZ and we local Zadars from HDZ gave all the shares of the largest hotel house in Zadar County, Borak, to resuscitate the combinations in Osijek. And then those shares ended up in Slavonska Banka and Slavonska Banka went bankrupt and those shares ended up in HYPO banka, and today HYPO banka is the owner of the largest hotel complex in Zadar. My colleague Kramaric, it is not true when you come to power not to help others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95867	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session. The sequel is at 3:00 p.m., and there is a continuation of this point, first Mr. Ante Markov on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95868	My colleagues and colleagues continue the debate. The first in line is a respected colleague of Mirjana Brnadić. Here you go. ... She's gone. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He's losing his voice on this subject. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for questioning. Does the secretary of state want to look around? Yeah. Here you are, final debate on behalf of the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95869	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here I would refer, in the closing statement, to several allegations that were given and presented through the debate itself, whether or not relating to the very point of the agenda, so as to confirm the Law on Guarantee to the Port Authority of Zadar for signing a contract with the European Investment Bank for the construction of a new port in Galženica. In fact, there were words that this government did not implement the smooth development of the Republic of Croatia in the first part of the building of capital infrastructure facilities, so that I would deny such an allegation. And set an example of the development of Croatian road construction at this point carried out by our Ministry of Public Enterprises of the Croatian Highways. So I would say that it is, it is, it is, in progress, building a full profile to Rijeka, which the project is planned to complete by the end of 2008. With that, too, the planned completion of the Dupolje-Ploče highway by the end of 2008. It is also under way to build a full profile of the highway from Zagreb to Sisak and by the end of 2008 it is planned to complete... It is also under construction of the 5.C corridor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And by the end of 2008, a full profile was planned for Osijek. And also when we speak here from, it was from Mr. Caine's word on "Istrian Ipsilon" that we expect the beginning of the works to be much, to build a full profile of "Istria Ipsilon" and it was planned to complete the full profile so that the whole "pislon" is by 2011. Also when we talk about railways, railways, then at this moment a project is being developed to build a railway line from Botor, from the border with Hungary via Zagreb, Karlovac and Rijeka. Therefore, from this short summary of the most important capital and infrastructure projects, it is seen, therefore, that one even investment in all Croatian regions, in all Croatian spaces, and not to mention when we talk about waterways that is in the plan for completion, completion and that is the beginning of works on the construction of the Danube-Sava channel. Mr. Poropat would also like to answer when he talks about the construction of the port. I said in my introduction that at this point projects are being developed in the Croatian port system, which totals EUR 750 million, and you stated that none of these projects apply to Istria. It is true that all Croatian ports of national importance whether they are seas, whether they are river ports, because these seven hundred... As regards both investments in both river and sea ports, none of them are in the Istria area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is true, therefore, that part of the port administration of Rijeka is its own, there is also its port area in the area of Istria, in the area of Bršica, and at this moment a project is being prepared, a project of building and quality work in Bršica itself and in Raša. You also mentioned, mentioning the port of Brestov. I must say that, past these ports of national importance in this term, we have reconstructed, upgraded and restored 54 ports of county and local importance. One part of those ports is also in Istria, and when you specifically mention Brest, then I want to tell you that Brestova is planned. And the funds were provided for the construction, the construction of the ramp, but the whole of Brestova did not enter the investment for the reason that the Rabac port administration did not prepare the documentation for possible construction of the lateral link and that was the reason why so far, let's say, Brestova was not completed and built. So the primary responsibility at the Rabac County Port to prepare the documentation about the possible investment in Bresto. Mrs. Ingrid, here she is now not mentioned on several occasions and spoke of and problemed the privatisation or sale of Zadar port. I want to make it clear here that the port of Zadar and the new port of Galženica which, whose construction is planned by this project, has absolutely nothing to do with it. Luka Zadar d.d. a commercial company which is a concessionary in the Zadar area but not in the area for which a new passenger ferry terminal is planned. Therefore, this port or its construction is not planned for anyone but simply for quality expansion and better conditions in the Galženica port system. We have no knowledge except from the press that there was a stock sale at Zadar d.d. port. This should be asked by the owners and our Ministry, which is what the minister seems to me and responded to "The current morning" that we therefore asked the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development for information on the possible sale of the port "Zadar" d.d. This request and letter were based on the fact that the port of Zadar is therefore performing business of public interest and we are also interested in the Ministry of Interest if there has been a change of ownership to find out for ourselves which would be the new owner of the Zadar port, but in any case the port administration of Zadar and the port of Zadar d.d. A company that is a concessionary for a certain time after its concession expires, it is doubtful whether a concessionary will also have a main concession in the area where he is now a concessionary. But certainly for this area for which this EUR 220 million project is being developed, which provides for the construction of a new passenger ferry terminal in Galženica for this concessionary, a public tender will be opened for all legal persons who can carry out quality port activities in the passenger terminal. Therefore, whoever it is, I say again if there is a sale, it has absolutely nothing to do with this passenger, ferry terminal in Galjenica. Here I think this is how much it took, with this couple of information or fact to complete this morning's debate, so here I hope that some things are now clearer and when it comes to investing in basic, basic infrastructure projects in the Republic of Croatia. Especially those activities and investments relating to the port system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95870	Thank you, Secretary of State. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Poirot. Here's your colleague, Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95871	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption in terms of what the esteemed secretary of state said that Brestova didn't go because of a lack of documentation. I'm very familiar with the documentation the Rabac Administration has for the port of Brestova. The problem, however, was the biggest problem when Jadrolini from Rijeka bought two new boats, bigger ferrys that simply cannot dock at the port of Brestova, and the reason is that it would reduce the huge crowd on the road leading from Istria by the shortest route of course through the sea section to Cres and Lošinj. I have asked and I am still asking not only for the Port Authority of Brestova and for the Port Authority of Rabac, which has complete documentation and a building permit for the Ministry to point out exactly the examples of construction permits to show that some things in these projects need to be helped for reasons where there is no, so the documentation to say no because we do not have a building permit. The port "Rabac" is the port which is the only safe between Pula and Rijeka, should be the only safe port on that road and for it I think this ministry should certainly have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95872	Time. Thank you very much, dear colleague. I'm finalizing a debate on this subject. We will vote on the final proposal of the Law confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project "New port in Zadar" when conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95873	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project "New port of Zadar". I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 119 votes for, passed this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95874	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Proposal for a decision on temporary financing of business, functions and programmes of state bodies and other beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Croatia in the first quarter of 2008, with proposals for temporary financial plans for the first quarter of 2008: (a) Croatian waters, (b) Croatian highways, (c) Croatian roads, (d) Croatian Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, (e) Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, (f) Croatian Privatisation Fund. The proposal was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Does the government's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Zigman has the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95875	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes temporary financing of the tasks and functions and programmes of state bodies and other beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Croatia in the first quarter of 2008. What is important to say, therefore, is that in order to expect parliamentary elections to be held in the last quarter of 2007 it is not possible to adopt a quality state budget for 2008 in the manner and within the deadlines set by the Budget Law. The Croatian Parliament is therefore expected to make a decision by the end of this term of office on the temporary financing of the operations and functions of the programme of state bodies and other beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Croatia so that all ministries and bodies of the state administration may work uninterruptedly at the beginning of 2008 in which the state budget for 2008 would have to be adopted which component will therefore be the temporary financing. What is important, then, is to say that it temporarily finance the characteristics of the following, which is that the decision on temporary financing is made by the Croatian Parliament. The temporary financing is carried out in proportion to the revenue achieved in the same period according to the budget for the previous year, and the most achieved total income without receiving, so in this case we are looking at the budget carried out in 2007, as it is the first quarter of 2008. During the temporary financing period, the same programmes are financed and users should not increase the number of employees compared to 31 December 2007. Temporary financing is carried out for the longest period of 3 months, which means, as I said, a budget for the whole financial year should be adopted during that period. During the temporary financing period, budgetary beneficiaries shall not assume new financial commitments after the temporary financing has passed during that period of the revenue and receipts achieved and the expenditure and expenditure incurred shall be included in the 2008 budget. How is it structured, or budgeted? In particular, revenue projections for the first quarter of 2008 start from the first quarter of 2007 and follow the estimated dynamics of the movement of basic macroeconomic indicators. Therefore, temporary funding for the state budget totals 26 billion and 149,9 million kuna, which represents an increase of 9.6% compared to the accumulated revenues in the first quarter of 2007. We expect therefore that such a projection is realistic because it is made in accordance with the indicators in which we expect for 2008. The proceeds from the sale of financial assets should amount to HRK 96.7 million. What is most important, therefore, in order to ensure the normal functioning of all levels of government, all ministries, pension payments, maternity benefits, etc. and therefore the expenditure on employees is planned between annual growth of 9.7% in the first quarter of 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. Why? For the simple reason we expect and according to a collective agreement signed at the end of last year between the government and the pay unions will increase by 6% and therefore it should be provided to ensure that salaries can be paid both in January and in February and in March increased by those 6%. Material expenditures are planned at the level of material expenditure incurred during the same period of 2007. So we expect there will be no additional costs. Financial expenditures are rising at an rate of 11.6%. So interest rates are slightly higher, interest rates are slightly higher and interest rates are expected because something stronger is expected than in previous years. Subsidies are planned at 73.2% of executions in the same period in 2007. In any case, the planned funds will allow for the continuation of all these programmes. The aid given abroad within the general state is growing at a rate of 7.3%. The maximum funds are provided for these centralised functions and for assistance to HAC and KC through the transfer of price charges, road charges in fuel prices. Compensation for citizens and households, hence all benefits, pensions, social expenditures, expenditures for the unemployed, etc. growth at a rate of 5.9%, therefore the indexation of pensions and all others according to other laws of other fees is expected, and this growth ensures the regular functioning and stability of the pension and social system and of course of the health system. Other expenditures are up to 83%, but the planned funds will ensure continued implementation of the programmes and projects related to this expenditure group. What may be most important for the prominent so that the first quarter is expected to achieve a surplus, the surplus is planned to amount to 9 million kuna. The amount may not seem large, but what is important is therefore d The government has provided temporary funding that does not create additional debt, does not create a new deficit but is therefore expected to be the total debt in the first quarter of a billion and 203 million kuna, and at the same time the payments will be a billion and 112 million kuna. So we're going to pay more back than we're going to be in debt in the first quarter, because the difference is going to be settled from the surplus that's planned for nine million kuna. Here's so briefly from the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95876	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The word is Mr Furio Radin. But we don't have a report from the board. ... We don't have a report from the board, did the board discuss it? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then go ahead. We'll probably get it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95877	Mr. Vice President, I would never have spoken on behalf of the board if the board hadn't held up.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95878	I agree with my colleague, but I have recorded here, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities crossed over because we didn't get notice that the Committee had completed its work so we didn't know, so I'm just asking if you had a report. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95879	Thank you very much. The Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a decision on temporary financing of business, functions and programmes of state bodies and other beneficiaries of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia in the first quarter of 2008 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 13 September to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee considered the proposal a decision as an interested working body and, in accordance with its section of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, discussed in more detail those parts of the proposals relating to the funding of programmes and activities aimed at the exercise of the rights of national minorities, the protection and promotion of human rights and the support of Croatian minorities in European countries. In terms of support for Croatian minorities in European countries, the proposal for a decision has been estimated to be generally acceptable, as a certain increase in funds is foreseen compared to the first quarter of 2007. However, when it comes to national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, it was found that the proposed amount of funding for donations, i.e. grants of associations and institutions of national minorities, was in fact a quarter of 2008 distributed by the Alliance for National Minorities, well below the three-month amount, or below a quarter of the funding provided for those purposes in the national budget for 2007. After the debate was held, the Committee decided by a majority vote, 9 votes for and one abstention to the Croatian Parliament to propose a decision on temporary financing of jobs, etc. State budget of the Republic of Croatia in the first quarter of 2008 with the following amendments. Amendment 1. On page 24 of the proposal for a decision, at the position of the National Minorities Council, current donations in money, etc. The proposed amount of 4 million and 300, replaced by 8 million 750 thousand. Now let me explain to you why it was done. In a proposal for a decision on temporary funding for grants to associations and institutions of national minorities deployed by the National Minorities Council, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed for the first quarter of 2008 the amount which, as an advance for those purposes, provided a tip for national minorities in the first quarter of 2007 and reduced by 7%, and the proposal for a decision for the first quarter of 2008 proposed 4 million and 300 thousand kuna. Therefore, for the purposes of associations and institutions of national minorities, the government did not propose a quarter... the funds provided for these purposes in the state budget for 2007 but less than one eighth of the relations. An extremely large reduction in the funding proposed by the decision on temporary financing for the first quarter of 2008, questioned the continuity of numerous programmes of minority associations and institutions, information and publishing, cultural amateurism, cultural events, programmes stemming from bilateral agreements, etc. and in view of that, the amendment proposes funds for these needs at the level of the quarterly amount. So with that amendment, we'd come up with a real three-month amount. In fact, to be clear, an advance here has been proposed on the already made advances of the National Minorities Council, down to 25% and more of the funds received three months and, of course, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities cannot agree. In the second amendment on page 79 of the proposal for a decision, paragraph A729024 of support to the publishing house "Edit" of the current donation in money, proposed to replace the amount of 230 thousand and 700 with the amount of 249 thousand 999. The proposal for a decision envisions a 7% reduction in the grant in the same period in 2007, and the proposed amendment would be maintained at an unchanged level. The most drastic case is foreseen by Amendment 3 for the already famous sports hall of Pula High School, where the amount of zero was put, because the last one was not built and the amount of 500 thousand kuna is projected here. So because it wasn't built here last year, now it's started to build and no funds are foreseen. This committee cannot agree directly and has foreseen the amount needed for the first quarter of 500 thousand kuna, the rest of things will be told to you by a representative of the National Minorities Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95880	Thank you, dear colleague. Does anyone else want to speak on behalf of the working bodies? No, I don't. Before we go any further, one notice. The meeting of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Assembly is to be held now at 15.40, so in a few minutes in the hall "Ivana Kukulević" polkat, chairman of the Dragutin Pukleš board. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95881	As soon as you give the information, could we find out when we're working tonight and which agenda point? It's always with us enigma.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95882	Well, I think that one part of that enigma will stay, given the number of people reported and given the number of representatives present in the hall, because you never know what time it will take to discuss and finish each point, and otherwise it's scheduled to work tonight until 7:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95883	And which dots?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95884	Now, that's inconclusive given the speed of the debate on a single wheel. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this point, so it's the HDZ Club, a respected colleague of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95885	Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna help my colleague Cain try to predict the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95886	Make it faster, is it? Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95887	Here, this decision comes at the time right at the end of the term of office of this Assembly, so I will give very little warning in view of the provisions of this provisional decision, of course we support it and we believe that the Government and this Parliament are responsible and successfully led the state these four years, so we want to leave it neatly, before the elections, before the end of the term of office, we want to leave the house neatly stored. Why? So the decision on temporary funding cannot be left for the start of next year regardless of the elections and other situations that will be but would be convenient to make it after the State budget implementation report for 6 months, and we already have a lot of data although the government has used that data we have enough data and to execute for 9 months because it remains evaluated by the end of the year and is based on making this temporary decision. I shall base such assessments by the end of the year and with the basis of Article 35. The Budget Act is proposed by the Government, the HDZ Club supports that the Assembly adopts as far as possible because we do not have anything controversial, of course, of the amendment possible for the government to consider and correct unanimously on the grounds that a fundamental legal provision has been established here that roughly the structure of income and income receipts and expenditures are foreseen for the first quarter of the following year, with the same number of employees and thus to allow normal functioning and payment in the country on 1 January and for the next period. This applies to guarantees and obligations and to all the structure foreseen for the budget and the extra-financial funds, and we therefore consider that there is nothing disputed and that this should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95888	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of Club IDS, dear colleague Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95889	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council, I think Mr. Furio Radin is right that this is the only parliament that discusses the implementation of the budget or budget in front of 1/10 MPs, if there are so many of us now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95890	Excuse me, colleague, I'm begging you. My colleague Cain is about the proposal for a decision on temporary financing, not you said we were discussing budget implementation, there is this point or later.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95891	No, no, I'm talking about temporary funding. And no wonder that's how it is, Mr. Vice President, when we adopt this temporary funding with a simple majority, with 39 votes. In one... which has a million kuna budget we adopt with a qualified, but a budget of 110, 15 or 20 billion kunas we can adopt with the ordinary majority, and that decision is not a decision, so, Furio, that decision is neither the decision nor the decision of this assembly until January 3rd, but the 3rd of January Government, but I see that it has not changed the HDZ either. And I'm afraid no new authority will come to change such an illogical provision. Otherwise, I support the discussion of Furia Radina especially when it comes to Italian high school in Pula. The second thing I want to say is this technical act, temporary funding is being carried out for the first three months of next year, amounts to a understandablely high total revenue from the previous year, the state must function regardless of the elections, the elections must not "paralyze the country". The elections are clearly inevitable, let's hope they bring us a new quality, but we all understand if we want them to happen 25. 11. that the 2008 budget of this assembly simply cannot vote. It would also be unfair if, at this point, the majority of them were to write in some way rules, to some future government, which would assume that if they came to power, they would change those same solutions within a few months. So what we have ahead of us is one expected solution. The 2007 budget with no extra budget funds amounted to HRK 108.5 billion, which will say that for the first three months of 2008, we can spend or spend €26.1 billion, the tax revenues in 2007 amounted to HRK 60.7 billion, of which I will talk about it a little bit more, the state was revenueing $1.6 billion from the income tax in order to strengthen the "central government", withdrawing all the income tax and, on that basis, has achieved or will achieve a clear revision of the conversion by the end of the year, not in a way that those who have been taxing will already end up in prison, I hope that this document will remain, as far as taxes on property are concerned, but I'm betting that the VAT will be clearly audited, not in a way that those who have been taxed already end up in prison, the VAT is worth 38.2 billion kuna, and I suggest that the VAT on food from VAT-PD-PD. The excise duties amounted to $9.1 billion, and I think they could have been clear and greater if that ridiculous provision of "0.0" had not been introduced, while the excise duties on cars were collected or planned to be collected from the same billion 453 million kuna, on oil derivatives 3.4 billion kuna, on alcohol 230 million kuna, on beer 775 million kuna, on non-alcoholic drinks 145 million kuna, on cigarettes 2.9 billion kuna, on coffee 163 million kuna, on luxury 25 million kuna. I think that there should be a particular tax on monopolies here, the taxes of these monopolies are not taxes on these companies, they're not giving anything, they're taxes from the state, they're not paying the company taxes, they're paying the citizens who buy cars, coffee, cigarettes, they're talking about a specific case or beer. I said I'd talk more about profit tax and income and I'd pull one parallel, which actually means this distribution of income tax or profit tax for the benefit of the state, relative to local self-government, so let's look at it this way. The tax on profits in the first 6 months in Istria County was 114.2 million kuna or 48.9% higher than in 2006. In total, it was EUR 347.8 million. It's surprising why when you've been looking out for that base for a whole year, 348 million kunas have been coming in the same way for the first 6 months of this year. Now you see, since profit tax is only a part of the state budget, the answer lies in forced charge. So we assume that the state is far more equal or zealous, excuse the collection of its income than when it collects revenues for, say, local self-government. On this basis, 109,2 million kunas were added from County of Istria to the budget of the Republic of Croatia more than the old redistribution before the amendment of the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was worth up to 31.12.2006. The effects are such that we simply lose for the first 6 months 41.8 million kuna only as far as the County of Istria is concerned, and when we remember the other local self-government we lose about 100 million kunas, 100 million kunas more than under the old law. It's like two or three new schools, two or three new halls. Clearly where HSP is not in power. Where HSP is then it takes you 10 years to actually have your country build one hall. As far as I'm concerned. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, we won't talk about it now, but I think it's a disaster that should change too. As far as contributions are concerned, they are also a kind of enigma for all of us. For health care at the annual level, we are incomeing 16.9 billion kuna for the pensions of 18.4 billion kuna. Clearly with these amounts, we will have problems sooner or later, but here in the party we are opposed to reducing these rates for contributions and health care, because it would simply destroy the health system first and possibly the pension system. It wouldn't be good, it would crash the system, and there's no one right to do that. No one can afford that luxury. However, from the sale of THT, the state will get about 7 and a half billion kuna, almost 3 billion kuna more than it planned with the original, original sale of 20 or 22% of the company's shares, and that money needs to equalise the old and new pensioners, it is only 600 million kuna at the annual level, but we are afraid that none of it will happen either. But why I actually took the floor. I'm reading in this material that from the concessions of the states on an annual scale, Mr. Secretary of State, it's about to arrive exactly 1 billion 987 million 954 thousand 645 kuna, meaning zirca 2 billion kuna. In three months on this basis, the government budget means 2008, 1.1. March 31st, 87.9 billion kunas will be merged. Now you see, gentlemen, what's the problem? In Croatia, millions and millions of square meters use private companies, whether they are those who deal with tourism, whether they are those who deal with agriculture and do not pay anyone on that basis a single kuna of compensation. So whether it's agricultural land, whether it's so-called. tourism companies, i.e. tourist land. What companies am I talking about here? I am talking about the strongest Croatian companies, from Todorovic's "Agrokora", "Blue Lagoons", whose head is one Luksic, "Rivier" whose head is the Fund, or whatever it is called, TDR, about friends of Mr Letice. There's a series or banks at the head of these companies from "Zagrebačka" and beyond, and I don't want to count the others. Now the question is whether it is normal for us to allow such unfounded incomes that, according to human or God’s laws, they should not belong to them. The question arises why does the government allow them to do so? Why do all governments allow them to do that? Why has all Croatian governments been making millions of dollars available to these companies for 15 years, and they do not single out any kunas in this state budget? The IDS proposal when the government or government don't want to solve it is that this land is the subject of a national lottery. For example. We have, say, 100 camps in Croatia. We put these camps in a drum and now let's say we get a hundred lucky people to have those camps in 2008. For 2009, then more of those first 100 should no longer participate in this prize game because we would have had enough for 50 years anyway, but let's choose a new 100 lucky people and so let's say over one 10 years we solve a thousand people who, among other things, will run what I know about economic activities and certainly hire more people than these companies who, without a single kuna, use these parcels across the Adriatic coast or throughout the interior if it's agricultural land. So why would these people who are headed by these tourist companies, and we all know they didn't even have to change their tires in '90s. years on their cars, were citizens of the front row, and the rest of us say second row. I'm really asking myself a question about what the people of all of us or this country are in charge of, and why isn't it touching them? Second, what else do I want to say? Yeah. Help out the days abroad. 93.9 million kunas, these are mostly assets heading towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, but that's not all, there are pregnant women, pensions, disabled women, but let's let it go now. Subsidies amount to 6 billion and 17 million kuna. So we don't have gentlemen running out of these subsidies to boaters, farmers, etc. in this period from the next 3 months of 2008. Today I read that only "Brodosplit" in Split has over 2 and a half billion kunas of outstanding liabilities, that it is normal that these debts ate the basic capital and I just want to believe that there will be no such government that will play and don't let God send them into bankruptcy or like Cacic, or this Šprem would say that one of these shipbuilding companies should be liquidated. Indemnity for 2007 We're in charge of 12.7 billion kuna for the period from 1 to 3 months 2008 only 1.2 billion kuna. I don't know how we're going to work if we don't secure or achieve at least one quarter of that amount of $12.7 billion. So 12% of the budget at this point is our debt. We came from the bonds, i.e. We're in charge of 8.9 billion kuna, out of loans of 2 billion kuna, with business banks, etc. And in that period, only the state returned 9.9 billion kuna. And I don't understand how it turns out now that in the first to third month of 2008, we're going to return only 1.2 billion kuna and we're going to be in charge of only 1.2 billion kuna. What I'm also interested in is the revenue from the sale of THT which is not fully shown in this material. And finally, it is understandable that one such technical act should be accepted. And what will then be done by some new government, which will sell, how much will be owed, we'll see after the election [[We've seen it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95892	Thank you very much. For the sake of truth, phonograms do not enter the indignation that counterpart Cain has against the Third-Secretary Government of Ivica Racan should nevertheless be reminded that the budget of the Republic of Croatia since the 1990s. He keeps bringing in the ordinary majority here, not during this government or during that government. And why the answer is provided is found in Article 82. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which lists what is brought by a qualified majority, and what has not been listed, is brought by an ordinary majority. And secondly, I apologize on behalf of us in the Assembly the head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia to the gentleman... He didn't participate in any shipbuilding discussions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe it's about Mr. Stern, but I don't know. Mr. Cain actually mentioned the name of the head of the Office of the President of the Republic, and I don't think that's right. I'm not going to reach for any measures because it doesn't make sense, but I think we should still watch what we say about what we say regardless of why we can't withdraw any serious sanctions except for the president's notice if we hurt someone or insult them behind this pay phone. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95893	Dear Mr. Vice President! No indignation towards or against the third-month government is expressed by Damir Cain. We were part of that government, though briefly. But we were. However, what bothers me is that we have one budget that is difficult at last... We adopt almost 120 billion kuna budgets with a simple majority, so that the budget can ultimately be adopted by 39 MPs of this Parliament, and that the budget of one Lannister with a million and a half to two million kunas is adopted by the council with a qualified majority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no such thing anywhere on the globe except in the Republic of Croatia. And if we want to restore the dignity of this House, the new power will have to come from these conditions. [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95894	Dear colleague! I just have to find out that you didn't have any injuries to your Rules of Procedure, you didn't even indicate what article the possible injury was about, but you used that tile to actually continue the debate, and that's wrong again by my conviction. And I have to tell you a respected colleague, not only were you short in that government, but after you left that government you were constantly supporting her, and among other things, with Racan's party you were sitting in that Parliament because you were in a coalition in the eighth constituency with the SDP. That's number two. And number three. I'm asking you nicely for legality and constitutionality. When we adopted the budget, the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Croatia, which regulates the question of how the budget is adopted at both national and regional level and local level, has not been amended as much as I remember from the IDS, nor from anyone who has proposed that a qualified majority be adopted at national level, so in this respect only respects the Budget Act which is now in force. Let's see what it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95895	Well, here's the deal, Mr. Vice President. In the context of Articles 209 and 214, it is clear that we supported what is good. What's bad, here, there's Goldie, let's say the Labour Act, that's what we challenged. But don't forget, Mr. Vice President, that this list of SDP and IDS was carried by Damir Cain in the eighth constituency, that it was the only list that was received by HDZ and Ivo Sanader and that the list was not worn either by Mato Arlovic or Ivica Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95896	Thank you very much. How much would you think she'd get if she was wearing Mato Arlovic? But it's otto-pot. And I have to tell you, I have to tell you, colleague Cain. About who was carrying the list, how they ran, how the coalition was created very much in the Law on Elections for the Croatian Parliament, but nothing in Articles 209 and 214 reads. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And yet you have actually abused this tile, and I must tell you, I will not give you any warning now, because the warning will not achieve the purpose of what our president of the Parliament would say, but I must tell you that do not abuse the institution of correcting the incorrect allegations or breach of the Rules of Procedure because it is a very, very important institute that should be used to comply with the procedure. The procedure is, among other things, an indication of the achievement of democracy. We're going to correct incorrect allegations. Dear fellow Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95897	Look! This was indeed an enigmatic investigation which I understood that even on you personally, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, it was not correct. It's really true, so it's the '90s. the years voted but as one great transparency and wisdom for us who worked on the Constitution because we knew that war would come and that some would flee from the Parliament. But it's scandalous after '95. and in particular in 2000 that you have not returned this to a European tradition in which budgets are considered a key parliamentary document and there is no European Parliament other than Croatia that has the practice of voting with the ordinary majority. So, I would protect you from Damir Cain, and if you go further into the debate, really, then give us a half-hour break and you discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95898	Thank you, dear fellow Letica, but the same rule applies to you as to fellow Caine. And you abused the Institute of Correction of the Incorrect Allegation, because you've pollemized with me and you've asked for a correction of an incorrect quote at your fellow Caine's discussion. And as you know, the first amendment to the Constitution was '97. Not '95, so I have to correct you to make the quote accurate for the phonogram again, and not to correct you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the National Minority Club, dear colleague Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95899	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Surely, it is good to make a decision on the temporary financing of jobs, functions and programmes and not to make a budget, because we have elections ahead of us, Parliament's disbandation, and it would not be good for us to bring a new or the same or another government on behalf of another parliament. But I have to look back on some positions. I know that three months of funding is limited to three months of income on the basis of this year, on the basis of 2007, that expenditure is also limited by expenditure in that first quarter of 2007, but it is obvious that large exceptions have been made. While some funds have been increased up to 20 times or an index of 2000. I'm not going to talk about those smaller indices, some of them have been significantly reduced. I'm going to start farming first, and I might ask for some clarifications, or I'm going to ask the Honorable Secretary to say what's going to happen to the incentives in agriculture, because if you saw 32% or roughly a billion and 100, above all, billion for farm incentives, only 600 million are planned for the next year in the first quarter. I will be very happy if the honourable secretary will answer that these funds for the spring sowing or now harvesting that is starting from soy, that it will be paid in this year whether or not they will be called an election trick but indeed I and I believe and peasants will be grateful if it really happens this year. But there's gonna be a lot of problems if that doesn't happen this year. The funds aren't planned for the first quarter, and I'm really wondering, or they're planned by 60% compared to the quarter of this year, and I'm afraid we're going to make a lot of problems in the crop industry that's otherwise exhausted. I will not specifically comment on why the Fund for Development and Employment has also been drastically reduced. I suppose it may be some investments or some programmes that I can wait for, so I can still justify it, but I say going back to agriculture is an industry under the clear sky, an industry that normally does not suffer delays, which does not suffer delays and unlike the Agricultural Employment Fund we will obviously have to see if it is not worth it this year to secure more funds. While here by the number of present or here present representatives obviously many do not care what with certain parts of what they have represented so far I must say that I represent national minorities and that I care very much how and what minorities will do in the first quarter of the following year. And since only 13% of the funds were paid in the quarter this year and those funds were reduced for the first quarter of next year means that minorities will get less than they received in the first quarter of 2006. Unfortunately, I cannot support such a decision and I believe national minority representatives, because these are funds that are not enough even for a cold drive. Don't forget, so I repeat 13% was paid in a quarter and I'll tell you why. The Council of National Minorities shall allocate the funds practically made available by the Assembly. The Council shall allocate those funds only after February when all associations financed and all institutions and publishing houses financed by those funds submit a final account for the previous year because only then are they entitled to finance, which means that the Council shall only allocate funds at the end of the third month when the difference is then paid. On these grounds, in 2007 the basis of 2006 was paid in three months, which has now served as the basis for 2008. And I say, 13% of the funds or 4.5 million are still reduced to 22 national minorities, to 300 and something associations say where it's involved, and publishing the cold drive won't work. Not to say all the activities carried out by the associations will not be able to simply finance in the first three months, and many minority associations programmes I say, and above all publishing, first and foremost, everything that comes from bilateral contracts will have to stop for a while, which will certainly not be a good message to the minorities, but also to the European Union that we have worked so hard this four years and the previous four years when we have made all the laws to say that minorities are our wealth, that we care that these minorities and their diversity are maintained, and now we will once thoughtlessly decide all of what we have done all these years to throw on our knees, which I think we should think very much about. So here I warned only three segments left, someone yelled at me to tell them everything but three important segments in general for the operation of the first three months of certain activities and certain classes of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95900	Thank you, dear colleague. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's time for my dear colleague, Shirac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95901	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will certainly support making this decision because it is necessary to finance all state institutions and the users of the state budget. As this Decision sets out expenditures and expenditure relatively on budget revenues achieved in the first quarter of 2007 and up to one quarter of total revenue achieved in that current year and only current expenditures and current programmes are financed, users do not comply with our Law on the State budget of borrowing and on the involvement of funds in the realisation of new programmes and it is also prohibited to employ new employees. The funds provided for under this Decision will be derived from tax and non-tax revenue, from domestic and foreign sources, donations, borrowings and other revenue intended to be made by specific regulations to be the revenues of the state budget. An estimate of revenue for the first quarter of 2007 planned to collect business revenues of €26 billion 149 million as well as revenues from the sale of non-financial assets of $96 million and €706 000. Business incomes are growing at 9.6 because our ministry has estimated that a successful economic development will continue, that VAT will at least increase our GDP by 6% and that revenue collection will continue to be successful during the first quarter of 2008. At the same time, the spending party is planned for this, with this budget proposal of 25 billion 914 million, which is only 3.8% higher than in this year. And expenditure on the acquisition of non-financial assets of 323 million kuna, which account for 97% of the results and these expenditures are needed to continue the implementation of the projects launched which, which would be very harmful to suspend and finance in this, this three-month period of 2008. When you look at the income and expenditure account, then you see that the expenditure is a little bit more, that the expenditure is going to be a little bit more, it's planned whether it's supposed to be more than, revenue more than expenditure for somewhere around 9 million, 9 million and 63,000 kuna. Of course, this is a plan indicator which, in further consideration of this temporary financing, this Budget, the Ministry and covered in receipts and expenditures. Or rather balanced. The structure of this budget, the economic budget in essence, is not different from the structure of the annual budget, and we said that this is limited in business income to 26 billion. Of course, the biggest contribution is tax revenues of over 57%. They're planning on 14 and a half billion. The larger ones are also 9.6%. Right behind them are contributions that also grow by 9.6% and are planned somewhere with 9 billion and 582 million kuna. Other aid, income from assets, revenues from administrative fees under special regulations and other revenues. I would also point out that the proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets planned with 96 million are actually incomes from the sale of residential space. On the spending side of the structure are the most significant fees for households and citizens planned with 14 billion and 16 million kuna. Then he spends on employees. This is the financing of our state institutions of 5 billion 133 million. They were planned to increase by 9.7% compared to execution. Material expenditures of a billion and 593 million and financial expenditures of a billion and 976 million, which are also planned 11.6% higher. I must say, the receipts from non-financial assets are planned with a billion 203 million which is only about a third of the executions from last year. And also expenditure on financial assets almost in the same amount, and they differ only by, for that 9 million and 60 thousand kuna where our incomes are higher than expenditure. It is also interesting to look at the analysis of the total receipts of financial assets. The ministry planned that these receipts would come from borrowing loans amounting to 704 million kuna. As I understand it from the secretary of state, it will primarily be on the domestic capital market to continue a positive trend in reducing our country's external debt. Besides, he'll be in charge, and we'll be in charge of selling the vault records. Borrowing bonds will not take place during this year or rather is not planned. And we have some other receipts that will come true since the return, the return of the principal. In expenditures that are almost the same as we said and receipts will primarily be for the payment of loans, 928 million kuna. Then for issued securities 126 million kuna and for loans of 107 million kuna. So it's both financially balanced. Here's what I'd say is that, by my assessment, this provisional budget for the first three months is very correct. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The law on the Croatian state budget and therefore I will, so I will support its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95902	Thank you, dear fellow Shirac. Does the Secretary of State want to take the final word? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll hold a vote on this wheel at the usual time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95903	Proposal for a decision on temporary financing of business, functions and programmes of state authorities and other beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Croatia in the first quarter of 2008, with proposals for temporary financial plans for the first quarter of 2008: (a) Croatian Waters, (b) Croatian Highways, (c) Croatian Roads, (d) Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation, (e) Environmental Protection Fund and Energy Efficiency, (f) Croatian Privatisation Fund. The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia within the deadline and by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Minister of Finance, Ivana Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95904	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Amendment 1 The Government cannot accept for the simple reason that the draft amendments do not respect the provisions of Article 31(2) on the budget. So where it is said that during the debate on the draft budget amendments proposing an increase in budgetary expenditure and expenditure, amounts above the budget proposal can be accepted provided that a reduction of other expenditures and expenditures is proposed at the same time. In principle, the proposal proposes a total reduction of two positions rather than items, as it is not known in principle which items should be reduced because a reduction in the budget cannot be proposed for the global position. The second thing is not about any amendments saying that the amount should be reduced there and that item, but is said for all three amendments in the sum that the positions should be reduced. It is practically impossible to factor into which amount of position the Office of State Property Management and the Central State Administration Office propose a reduction. Is that what you're suggesting on the payroll? Is that something else? You can't see that clearly from your proposal. Secondly, we believe that this proposed funding, given that it is temporary financing, is in principle always possible for the first two months, will be fully sufficient for the functioning of all the services for which the funding is intended and will not lead to any disturbance. Finally, Article 35, in fact, provides that the total expenditure cannot exceed one quarter of the revenue made in the first three months of the previous year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95905	Representative Furio Radin. Here you are on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95906	Mr. President, can I answer all three amendments at once, so let's cut it short?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95907	Okay. Okay, it'll be economical.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95908	To your soul.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95909	I accept my soul if it can't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95910	And what's a colleague? Are you pulling or staying with the amendment? ... Vote? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So say it. Okay. Who's for Amendment One? He didn't get the necessary majority. Who's for Amendment Two? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And amendment three. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 105 votes in favour and 10 against a decision on temporary financing, etc. In accordance with Article 24. I am giving the budget law to vote on the decision to give consent to the temporary financial plan of the Croatian Waters for the first quarter of 2008. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 112, 3 against the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95918	We move to the following point: - The proposal for a decision on the 2008 declaration of "The Year of Marina Holding" in the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received their reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain further? Yeah. The word is from counterpart Antolovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95919	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the 500th anniversary of the birth of Marina Držić, who, which we will mark next year, I propose to the Parliament to declare 2008 as "Marina Držić" and to accept this proposal to establish an honorary committee that will be appointed by the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, individuals and representatives from prominent scientific organisations and institutions, and to follow this and develop a programme of marking, and to complete patronage over the marking of the year "Marina Držića" takes over the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95920	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague of Mayan. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95921	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, of course, the club will all-out support the proposal. And I would personally say that I'm extremely glad that one topic like this today is on the agenda, a topic which is an essential cultural topic. We don't have them too often in our schedules. But it seems to me that this particular example is when we meet a year of such a great writer’s age that we may be able to recall what other countries are doing on similar occasions. So it seems to me that this can't be just a decision of mere form, a decision to speak in, that is, that will carry in its realization the performance of the work of Marina Drać, the making of medals, perhaps postage marks, so those common elements that follow these occasions. I think so, too, is the opinion of our club that such an eminent cultural theme is related to this anniversary, which is certainly the biggest anniversary in Croatian literature with that of Marko Marulić, the father of Croatian literature. So it deserves something that could also be called mobilising the entire Croatian theatre, first of all, and then all Croatian cultures. If we just remember what the Republic of Austria did last year, in which way it capitalized its great anniversary of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart we could learn something about how to move forward with cultural giants, so beyond our local frameworks, outside Croatia in this case. What do we think when we say mobilization? We think of an amazing idea of some people from the Croatian theatre who propose to the Ministry of Culture, for example, a complete recording of the audio records of all the Master's works for several reasons, and perhaps by example by the English who have so recorded their entire Shakespeare. And even if that Shakespeare doesn't listen to the entire population, although culture is unfortunately we'll say good for a small number of people it still remains for history. In this case, the Master’s language, which is a very specific language that almost none of the general population today knows, is cherished only at the Drama Academy and which could perhaps become one topic in that anniversary year, but I would also say that it could live in such a project. And that is why we believe that this original Holder language as one of the cornerstones of our comedy must become what it will be, therefore not a mere formality in that anniversary year, but something that will indeed remain for the future, for history, for something that we would have to declare our cultural well-being, just as the Republic of Austria did last year with its Mozart, which was already planetaryly popular, which our Marin Grić can't be. But they knew what to do with their great with such an anniversary. So here we hope that, with this proposal for a 2008 declaration of the year "Marina Draća" in the Republic of Croatia, this name will be brought to life in many more concrete ways than would be one postage mark, one medal or some honorary committee. For this reason, we will earnestly support this proposal and hope that those institutions that will be the bearers of these programmes will know what to do with the name, character and work of Marina Holding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95922	A colleague, Zlatko Kramarić, on behalf of the HSLS Club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95923	Honored Mr. Vice President, dear secretary of state and secretary of state, dear colleagues and colleagues. I need something like a literature teacher in the end this is my profession and something really needs to be said. I sign all this stuff that Jagoda Martincevic used to say. Unfortunately when I noticed then I realized you were talking about this item on the agenda so I came up urgently. And I really hope we finally make that necessary step. We also had a recent year of "Josip Jurj Strossmayer", 2005 which was the 100th anniversary of his death and 170th year of his birth. We also had a year through which we marked the work and character of Nikola Tesla. Here we have, and in 2008 there will be a year in which we should mark the year "Marina Stick". Although you know for yourself that in 1508 whether he was really born was a questionable year, not until the end, there is a very small doubt and more or less in all serious encyclopedias and monographs he was just writing a small questionnaire whether he was actually born in 1508. But it doesn't matter at all. What's important is what you've tried to say and what you've given such a great comparison of what I can do, what the Austrians did with their Mozart, what we can do with our own Host. The sticker certainly belongs to the order of world comedyrs. We don't really have to be ashamed of that at all. Too bad he just wrote in that language, and not in another language, and certainly his name and work today would have been curated differently valorized just like... The planetary European, or global scales. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that doesn't mean that we shouldn't try, it's precisely those names that kind of threaten, which are part of Croatian culture, Croatian identity, which is precisely to show what was created in these areas and what kind of ambience existed and that we really don't have to be ashamed of our past and traditions in any way. But what I'm thinking now is that from this narrow circle of people who are dealing in colleges, theaters, theaters, we're going to try to really do this step, that the stick is really going to be with every citizen of Croatia on you, not actually being the subject of one narrow circle of research that will still remain, but it's going to be, these anniversarys, that it doesn't go so declaratively, that it really doesn't come down to a postmark or some symposium, to some monograph or choir frames that are going to be published but something different. A recent film about Marina Zzic was made by Veljko Bulajic. I have to admit, unfortunately, I haven't had a chance to look at it so I can't actually judge about the film, but the fact that after the reception, so after what happened, it's actually all over together for less than a week, from the premiere of the film and a couple of press reviews actually nothing more than to witness again either the movie is bad or the criticism is not able to properly receive that film perhaps because of the ignorance or criticism or some other animosities, but it actually can't happen. I'm not saying again about the mystifications of our very great men. I always remember that "two centuries of Wolf" or "two hundred years of Wolf" that it was from that mystification that was then done that had a very dangerous political background behind it. We must not do this, we must not descend to such a level, but we must indeed do everything in this Parliament. In 2008, it should be in some way that I will not say thematic sessions, but the Committee on Culture, the Committee on Science, and also in the Assembly, we would have to re-encourage and in some ways change this optic through which citizens experience and... Which we actually have is Marin Sticker. [[You don't understand.]] Marin Holding is personal to me, but it's just an encyclopedia of life, all he described are still life situations. In all the dilemmas that he was in, these are the dilemmas and the contemporary Croatian man, the citizen, in fact, and all the contradictions that followed him and that he should not be a prophet in his own midst, so that he must leave that environment. There are all the dilemmas that today are plagued by Croatian intellectuals, writers, politicians, citizens and in this era of globalisation. That is why I would also say that the HSLS club will stand behind it, but that we should give up the future of these and then have some critical revaluation of what it is with Strossmayer, as it has actually been through, what the results are, what it is with Nikola Tesla or with some other scientist, a writer who will turn the circumstances into that the Croatian Parliament has the honour to dedicate one particular year to him. If we succeed, then we've done a lot, but I say if it stays only at the level of that event and in some way decorative then neither the Secretary of State and his ministry have to suffer criticism because certainly it wasn't the goal nor will, we will... who will be able to write a new monograph of both different and better or someone other monographer, Popper Novak and those people who, by this means, are thanked to the God of these people today. [[You don't understand.]] When my colleague Letica spoke about my masophilic relationship with the Croatian academic community he is actually very critical that everything is truly and encouraged, but that politics and the public still have one another, that this is an integral part of our life and in the end we can not be left behind in the economy I don't know two or three times after the European average, but in science and culture it is not necessary and it doesn't have to be necessary in due time... The HSLS club will give that voice, but also here I am as personal, as the man to whom it is at the end and the profession and who deals with it and who has one completely different, and also this emotional and professional relationship, I hope that this appeal will because I have this very experience that has not been very great so far, we have remembered it, we have memorized it and we have said that we will mark it but after that the results were quite prone. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95924	Thank you, dear colleague Kramarić. Does the Secretary of State want to take the final word? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this agenda point when the time comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95925	Proposal for a decision to declare 2008 "The Year of Marina Holding" in the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? There will be also a proposal next year for the declaration of the year Marina Jurjevic. 115 votes for, unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95926	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Proposal for a law on state support for education and education, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 782 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on European Integration. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. The word has been respected by Tajana Kesic Sapic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95927	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Amendments to the Tax on Profits Act for compliance with the acquis of the European Union have been deleted in Article 6(1) of point 7 which prescribed a reduction in the tax base for the costs of schooling and professional training of workers and has joined the creation of a new law on state support for the education and education of workers that is before you today. The law regulates the conditions and rules for granting state support for the education and education of workers and, under the terms of the worker, we include craftsmen because in the work of craftsmen, craftsmen participate in personal work and cannot conclude a contract of work with the craft. This law regulates state support to economic operators for general education and education which enables the acquisition of qualifications which are mostly transferable to other entrepreneurs or to other work areas and for specific education and education intended for the current or future job of workers in the existing entrepreneur, i.e. The qualifications acquired are not transferable to new entrepreneurs. Support for general and specific education and education are as follows: Large entrepreneurs may reduce the base of profit tax accounting to 50% of eligible costs in the case of general education and education and up to 25% of eligible costs in the case of specific education and training of workers. In the case of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the accounting base for profit or income tax is reduced to 70% of the eligible costs in the case of general education and education and up to 35% of the eligible costs in the case of specific education. Support users employed by workers in an unfavourable position, e.g. disabled, long-term unemployed and older people can reduce the tax base they achieve for general education and education further increase by 10% points. When we talk about the legitimate costs of general or special education, we will only mention some. These are the costs of primary, secondary, higher and higher schools and colleges, as well as of all other educational institutions where basic education is acquired, lower and upper secondary education prepares, higher and higher professional prepares including postgraduate and doctoral studies. Also fees for attending seminars, courses, congresses, specialisation costs, professional literature costs, the costs of depreciation of devices, aids and equipment used in education and education in accordance with the scope of their use for this purpose. In addition, if education and education are carried out outside the place of residence or residence, the costs of transport and accommodation up to the actual costs incurred and the expenses of the living room shall be included, in accordance with the rules on income tax. Also, this Law regulates tax incentives for apprenticeships, for craftsmen, and that entrepreneurs who have three scientists can reduce profit tax and income tax base by 5%, and entrepreneurs who have more than 3 scientists on teaching can increase the percentage of tax base reductions by 1 percentage point per scientist, but up to 15% of the tax base. Sublegal regulations for this Act, content and records and documentation for the calculation of state support will be prescribed by the Minister of Finance within 3 months of the entry into force of this Act. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude that all taxpayers, i.e. entrepreneurs and craftsmen, who can provide evidence of the costs of general education and education and for specific education and education, and for the apprenticeships resulting from the period from 1 January to 31 December of this year, can achieve support and tax relief for these purposes for the period in 2008. I believe that both this Law and all the efforts of this Government will be a major contribution to the development of entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia and that you will support it as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95928	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. On behalf of the HDZ club, respected colleague Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95929	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. As I said by the way, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this Law because it is just another one in a series of laws that gives support to our entrepreneurs and craftsmen. As the secretary of state has said for a long time, especially those involved in vocational education will be satisfied, will be dealt with in some way and the problem of teaching and receiving students in craft workshops and in business workshops. Why? Because it was most often very difficult in the smaller environments to find so - called. student practice because neither craftsmen nor entrepreneurs were motivated by anything to take students into practice. This Law also provides for a reduction of the tax base, so one incentive for a craftsman to receive a student, because receiving a student in practice is indeed a great concern for a student, it is not that simple. So he's motivated to take a student into practice. We have also set ourselves up for society, knowledge and lifelong learning, so the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has taken a whole series of reform measures related to both vocational education and lifelong learning. In the wake of this, our Ministry of Economy has also been involved in building a knowledge society to help craftsmen, helping our entrepreneurs, investing in knowledge, in education, also ensure quality of their staff, but also raising future quality personnel. In the end, I won't be long on this law because it is really encouraging and good. I just have to say that we are happy about this and that we should point out that those craftsmen and those entrepreneurs who can provide the costs of education and education and the costs of those who can prove that they spent on teaching already this year, so 2007 and tax relief can achieve support for these purposes in 2008. We believe that this Law, as well as another one in a series of incentives, will foster and achieve the goal of strengthening vocational education and will in general affect the improvement of the education structure of our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95930	Thank you, dear colleague. ... Who? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As far as I know, Tajana Kesic Shapic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, writes here. And if you're talking about a respected representative, then he can only be a candidate for the minister. So please be nice. Come on, so don't humiliate a parliamentary representative. Dear friend Damir Cain. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95931	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. What's the matter, Kramaric? ... What do we have here today? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You see, gentlemen, the Law means state support for education and education, but today a reduction. So on today's day, the downsizing for that purpose is the larger Madam Secretary of State, but what's going to happen under this law. Today we have a so-called. double reduction of the tax base with regard to training and education. So the existing law or existing laws that are in force today are twice as favourable as this proposed, and that this is how you see it should be quoted on the sides of the five evaluations and the selection of the necessary means to implement the law, and it is said here that, in accordance with the methodology formula for assessing the financial impact, it is estimated that less taxes would be paid to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of educational and education incentives for workers under the Tax on Profits Act, which was in the period until 1 January 2007, than would be paid under this legislative proposal, etc. If that is the case, this Law should be rejected and the existing regulation should be put into effect. So it's more unfavourable. Sure. ... So you're in one. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95932	Dear Secretary of State, you must not communicate from the bench with the representative as he speaks, because you will get... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95933	How could you not understand? I understand very well. I'm reading the explanation. One of the few people who reads it, but what do I do? So if that's the case, I said this law is not correct. The fact that the existing regulation may not be in line with the European Union may be less important. I know that Croatia has accepted this obligation to comply with tax breaks and exemptions, but this is none of my business now, if our tax discharge will be less than the existing. So, Croatia should seek tax discharge, not to introduce new commitments, whether it is a tax I do not know of property, or a reduction of these aids. But I won't doubt it any further. I believe in the word "state secretary" means there's still going to be some reduction less, but according to your arguments, it turns out the other way around. If the reduction is less we will absolutely support the bill, and if the reduction is not less then we will be against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95934	It's hard to talk about any reduction if it's not less. The HSS club, dear colleague Ljubica Lalic. Here you go, pals!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95935	So what the hell is wrong with you today? Mr. Vice President, thank you. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! It is obvious that today's debate in the Croatian Parliament is happening this way in a leprechaun style, and perhaps it is not bad. Maybe it's good that it's done in a flabby style, and that's how we sort of relax ourselves, and we can talk without intense tensions and those very often unnecessary conflicts. So here is the item of the agenda of the draft law on state support for education and education. Looking at the census of the population of the Republic of Croatia, the personnel structure of the population of the Republic of Croatia, of course we were all appalled by the poor personnel structure of the population of the Republic of Croatia. If we have chosen to dominate knowledge, if we have defined ourselves for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, it is certainly not possible to come to this development without investment and raising the education of all inhabitants. Of course, education requires a lot of support. I am convinced that exactly the proposal on support in education comes from the knowledge and knowledge that the poor education structure is not the result of the lack of will to acquire knowledge but is very often the result of the inability to send children to school. This is particularly visible in areas called areas of special state concern where unemployment is more than 30%, where the population does not have a permanent source of income, where they are often dependent on life from social assistance. And with these 400 kunas, it is really not possible to send your children to high school education when very often the bus ticket to the place of school is greater than the amount of social assistance they receive. At the same time, it is in these areas of special state concern that the population is mainly or mostly agricultural-oriented. Not because they wanted to. Not because they had not been trained through schooling for other jobs, but because of the consequences of war and even more of the consequences of that privatisation when they were out of work and then they forced themselves back into calling their fathers. Unfortunately, of course there is no source of funding from that agriculture and in this sense support is absolutely necessary. So in Croatia, we are assessing that education is absolutely necessary, that support is absolutely necessary and that we welcome it in this bill. However, we have noticed something that is not really clear to us. The promoter is the Ministry of Economy. And now we ask ourselves, how does the Ministry of Economy think about also one economic branch that is significant in Croatia, which is agriculture? Do we really think that it is possible today to deal with agriculture without obtaining adequate knowledge? I assure you because I live with these people and do my own work outside of work, today I can't deal with agriculture, I can't successfully deal with people who don't have the right education. And it should be considered precisely that neither those family economies or people we give incentives to produce must be trained to carry out that activity. Did we predict, did we plot the education of farmers in terms of how to get the funds from the European Funds? They're people who have elementary school, and often they don't even have primary schools. How will they come to the source of funding, and how will they train their farms? Did you gentlemen foresee funds for such education? No education is foreseen, no funding is provided, with the same conclusion that agriculture is one of the most important branches in the Republic of Croatia, and I, as a member of the Croatian Peasant Party, would say that as a member of the Croatian Peasant Party, I believe that it is a strategic economic branch in the Republic of Croatia. I'm afraid in these thinkings of agriculture, that we are not up to the task that is ahead of us, I'm afraid that by the absence of thinking and through these legal provisions we don't care about agriculture, we don't care about farmers and we leave them somewhere on the margins of economic activity. And until then, as long as we leave agriculture on the margins of political thinking until then, our imports will continue to grow. We'll feed on imported food. At the same time, we will have our population unemployed because the lack of primary agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia also makes a logical conclusion that we do not need the food industry. So if we don't need peasants, so if we don't need the food industry because everything can be imported, I don't know on what basis and what all those who live on today are going to live on as they do but live on, they're vegetting on that farm. Here, that's the thinking of the Croatian Peasant Party. And we will support this bill because we have said that we are very much in favour of education and professional training. But we expect at least an answer, and by the end of the day, amendments to this bill can be made to the vote. So think about agriculture a little bit, think about this huge mass of people who need education and not only education, but also encouraging measures, because through education it will be easier to achieve that goal and the goal is competitiveness in the European Union as well. The entry into the European Union itself will not change us anything unless we have changed it ourselves. We need to teach these people how they will come up with European funds. It's nice to hear that we have an offer and that you can get a grant. However, when these people go into the realisation of these funds, when they have to go through a little picturesquely that cross road, and for them it's a cross road because they don't have enough knowledge, then we just see that we have a far-fetched jacket that we'd like to get to but we don't have the ability to get to. In order to remove it, let the Proposer and consider and let it go, let him propose amendments in order to supplement these amendments and supplement the law, the Law on State Support for Education and Education. But with these remarks, we will certainly support the Croatian Peasant Party club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95936	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by a respected representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95937	Well, here, I want to correct a quote from my distinguished colleague, Lalic. It's not true that no one takes care of farmers. The European Union is currently in the lead. And what you mentioned is the importance of using funds, pre-accession funds, above all, is a condition for every young entrepreneur who starts in agriculture if it means no experience and young people don't have to have education. Thus, in addition to the company’s guidance, a family economy that should have the same benefits of education as a craftsman should also stand here, as the farmer of the agricultural holding is also an entrepreneur, i.e. must also have education for acquisition but certainly also to do business and to be able to do what is a condition in complete technology and applied technology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95938	Thank you. And another correction by the respected representative Pero Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95939	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mrs. Prosecution has presented a series of incorrect allegations, and I will try only one. Take it that their government, the past government, left devastated, one of the most devastated ministries and the arrival of Minister Cobankovic led to an increase in something twice. And besides, our current ministry has brought Mr. Cobankovic in line that Europe is coming to learn from our ministry how it is arranged, one of the best ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95940	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95941	Thank you, Mr. President. I was a little confused, but it's still a breach of the rules of procedure. I am correcting the violation of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure because you have allowed a fellow representative to correct my exact claim with his inaccuracies. Dear counterpart Mlinaric, the incentives have not been increased since 2003. In fact, they've been reduced. Ask people how much they got the wheat. What's the incentive? A thousand 650 kunas. Ask them how much they got. They got a thousand 100 kunas and 800 kunas for corn, etc. So if you're going to correct what I didn't say and you're imputing me that I said something then at least use official and accurate truth data for the sake of it. This people don't need any more inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95942	Now you're saying that MP Mlinarić was correcting something that you didn't say. We'll see about that. All we can do is check it out so we don't rely on memory and memory. ... Now we can't right now. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The two of us? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You got it. Final review by State Secretary Tajana Kesic-Sapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95943	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry Mr. Caine doesn't want me to answer his question or his false interpretation. The amendments to the Law on Profit Tax, which entered into force on 1.1.2007, deleted that article, and this year it did not work on what Mr. Cain said. So that article wasn't practical this year. So he's been removed from the profit tax law. And that's why the new Law on State Support for Education and Education started. We've been doing simulations on both large and small companies and simulations have shown that tax reliefs are greater than they were in that first law. What I would still like to answer to the honourable parliamentary representative and about agriculture. So this law gives tax reliefs. So, based on this law, which is bound by the Law on Profit Tax, and the Minister of Finance needs to make rules related to this law. So, all those in the profit or income tax system, including farmers, can exercise the right. So no one's stopping a farmer who's d.o.o. or a farmer who has an open trade to get a tax relief for the improvement and education of workers. ... But it has to be the basis for tax returns. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If he is not a taxpayer on which to give tax relief, that is the problem. ... It has to be in the system, it doesn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then the Profit Tax Act must be changed whole, so at this point unfortunately, this is not possible right now. Here, I thank everyone for supporting this law. And here I am also sorry that Mr. Cain doesn't have to hear in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95944	Why are you so sorry? I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Final proposal of the Law on State Support for Education and Education. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 115 votes for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95947	Your Honor, Mr. President. There's a calm day, a calming topic about which there's no thought of party or human dilemmas. Okay, and we'd be dead satisfied that there aren't a lot of people in this High House. They did not like great grace and spent most of their lives alone with their own ideas deeply attached to the ideas of Croatian freedom, human dignity. I'll read that brief decision and then I'll say something in one of them. I hope that fellow Andrija Hebrang, speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, will be complemented so that we can save your time, that we will say what is important. "On the occasion of the 15th anniversary of the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia, we representatives and MPs of the 5th convocation of the Croatian Assembly decided that at the appropriate and honorable places on which the decision should be taken by a special expert commission composed of architects, art historians and sculptors of the collection, or statues that would remind all future representatives and representatives, guests of the Assembly and other parliamentary visitors and of our posthumous award: First, Dr Franji Tudjman, the first president of the Republic of Croatia of his great unquestionable contribution to the establishment, defence and international recognition of the Republic of Croatia as a free, independent and democratic Croatian state. Second, the model cardinal, Dr Franja Kuharic, for large credits for the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia and for a consistent advocate for the protection of human rights and the application of the highest moral principles during the difficult days and years of war, occupation and struggle for the release of our country, and for the decisive condemnation of every and every crime committed by members of the Croatian forces in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina." This is the content of the Decision. It's a happy day after that. We were just talking a little bit about Marina Gric. We talked about a practice that has been reviving in recent years that we begin to cherish the values of gratitude and the reminders of the honorable people of Croatian history. A few days ago, I met a math professor who discovered himself in archaeology of a rich Croatian heritage, a man of mathematics named Feller. Which was quoted almost as Nikola Tesla, for which I assume a very small number of people in this House of High has heard as I have not heard. There are 150 theorems named after him and is completely unknown to the Croatian public. I'd like first of all to say a little bit about Dr. Franji Kuharic, whom I personally consider Croatian Tom Moore or Thomas Moore. I don't think it's important just to make a simple decision to place a memorial mark in this High House, but we need to come up with, raise awareness and accept the awareness that it's right and right to put these things in this House. I am speaking perhaps for the last time from this pay phone in this assembly of parliament, and I was talking about Dr Franji Kuharić for the first time because if you remember I had proposed an amendment to the first state budget of this coalition government, the HDZ government, to create a mountain road from Sošica to St. Gera, which would also be named after the model cardinal Dr. Franja Kuharić. The Prime Minister and finance minister have accepted the amendment proposal. He was adopted. Unfortunately, Minister Shuker has promised me several times, and this promise has been strengthened by Minister Kalmeta and has never provided the 14 million kuna. That's how that road wasn't built. It's a big debt. I don't want to make any trouble out of it. But it would be good if HDZ got most of it to make that commitment because who lives, who dies. Why does Cardinal Dr. Franjo Kuharic deserve a memorial at the High House? Because the role modeling Cardinal Dr. Franjo Kuharic was simply a model man. For him, British historian Norman Stone once said that he was particularly impressed because he was a wise, resourceful, reasonable, and very clever man. He added that Kuharic was a positive Croatian force because he showed a tendency to talk and compromise. He would modestly add some more virtues that were adorned by Cardinal Kuharić and which Norman Stone missed mentioning because he had no chance to meet them. Cardinal Kuharić was a very funny, gentle man, a fearless man, a strong will, an unwavering character, an indestructible faith and deep spirituality. He was for each and every one of us, it would be useful and instructive for each and every one of us to set a model for us in the near future. I will focus your attention only on the world's achievements and the sending of a model cardinal because I am not an expert in worship and I am very little in the theological heritage even though I have studied him. I believe that he is some sort of version of Thomas Morre, a prominent British or English lawyer, a statesman whom the British king, or English king, had to cut off by the head, and St. John Paul in II, 2000, declared to be the patron saint of statesmen and politicians. Franjo Kuharić, unlike Thomas or Tom Morrea, who had to write his utopia that never came true, had great happiness in having all his ideals and people's ideals welcomed alive: the fall of communism, the return of Croats to the community of free world nations, the achievement of the Croatian state, and what was particularly important to him was the declaration of Alojzi Stepinac blessed and holy. He also experienced the coming of the Holy Father to Croatia. For many reasons that support this proposal I will single out five great achievements of the life and virtues of the world's model Cardinal Kuharic. The first was a resistance to all sorts of totalitarianism. So from the moment he was charged with Aloysia Stepinac, he sent him to a bloody bath, and until he died, he was not only a witness until 1990, but a martyr for fighting for the autonomy of the church, for faith, for Croatian freedom, for human dignity. And in addition, in a small contribution that I have given you, you will see all the trouble that this beautiful man has been through, with what quiet peace, and I will remind you of only one part of that mildness of Cardinal Kuharic, but in a mature age of communism when he was often called from the local UDBA to informative talks as well as the other and president's House of Commons. This is how Juraj Kolaric testifies in his conversation with UDBA agent. He says to him, "By your faith, we who do not believe will come to hell." "How are we going to be there?" - Ask him to marry him. He said, "You will see this. But I don't want you to. We're two worlds. I believe in God, you don't believe in God. You want evil for me, I want good for you. That way we can never meet." So in a discreet way, he testified to his faith, but as Zagorec, he said not to die hell. When he spoke and began now in the difficult times of war it was difficult to keep the Church from political influences, he still managed to do so, as he did in Tom Moore compared to the king of England. Speaking in the '90s, actually '94. This is how he talked about the separation of the Church and the state. Jesus made no covenant with any earthly power, nor with the Herodites, nor with the Pharisees, nor with the Aducees, nor with the Veryts, nor with the Lim Empire. I can almost set up our parties that could be identified with these sects. He was freedom, the truth, and he was telling the truth. That is why neither the Church creates alliances with political parties nor with regimes, and in reality lives wanting to announce the Gospel to everyone. The third warrant, he stood for ethical warfare. In the famous sermon of soldiers in Maria Bistrica, he, you have it in writing, so I won't repeat it to you, has taught you about the high ethics of warfare. He then expressed limitless love for Croatian freedom, country and country. And finally, he resolutely condemned the crimes, almost shouting towards the sky after Ahmic. I was at his house that night in the palaces upstairs, and he took me in with one healing calm. After that, he wrote: "I pray and swear by the Croats in the name of Jesus Christ crucified and resurrected as the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are responsible for this conflict and for all the damage done to Croatia and the Croatian people, international relations and worldwide means of communication. Croatia's own victim of aggression has been burdened by hundreds of thousands of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, most of whom are Muslims, now itself accused of a bloody conflict between Muslims and Croats in BiH. The government of the Croatian state has a say in that. There is a moral right to defend his life and his right but only within the limits of ethical norms, is never allowed to commit a crime against other people's lives, against other people's property, against the dignity of another. So we condemn every crime whoever commits it. Who commits a crime is at war against himself and draws God's curse upon himself." I'm not going to repeat my reasons any further, I'm going to wait until my colleague Hebrang, I'm assuming that he will devote most of his exposure to the reasons for setting up Dr. Franjo Tudjman. I'll only tell one anecdote, I feel some kind of personal obligation to postpone and set you up. In a series of interesting conversations with Dr. Franjo Tudjman, one referred to the name of Marshall Tito Square. It is indisputable that he knew that Marshall Tito committed major crimes, and it was a dramatic time and talking about it not or removing that name I remembered an argument that he accepted. I said watch that theater square always wore the names of dictators. So if I'm a bit younger and if happiness gives me a little longer to live, and you manage to create a Croatian state, it would be logical for that square to get your name. And in later attempts, there was no question of that idea. It would be good if that square were called "The Theatre Square," and this little memory might be more important for Dr. Franjo Tudjman to set up this very assembly of parliaments. My idea to set themselves down, right from the stairs, to imitate Cardinal Franjo Kuharić, when people go to the restaurant, when they go to smoke and drink to stop for a moment in front of that Croatian Tom Moore. And this left where Mislav Bago stands now to be Dr. Franjo Kuharic, where journalists pass by, to think little about Croatian freedom and Croatian homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95948	Thank you. The board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95949	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports fellow Letica's initiative because it is in the direction of our state policy that we support and I can say with great regret that this will be the first bust of the late President of Dr Franjo Tudjman in the city of Zagreb. It's a disgrace to our generation. But one long night in '98. The late president read me a letter from Henry Kissinger, a great statesman of one of the few who understood the problems of the young Croatian state at the time. Kissinger said like this: "Mr. President, no great man has welcomed the thanks of his contemporaries for his life. Well, neither will you. But be sure that history will make it right." So let this initiative be the first step in correcting this injustice. This is an opportunity to remind ourselves of the role of the two greatest giants, the two strongest pillars in the foundations of the Croatian state, Cardinal Kuharic and Dr Franjo Tuđman, so I will read the explanation of our support for this proposal. Croatia and its peoples had the greatest historical happiness that God gave them two greats in the most sensitive period of Croatian history, at the time of the achievement of Croatia's dream, the centuries-old power to get our own country in which we will decide our own fate and in which equality with other peoples who accept Croatia as their own country will be realized. Cardinal Franjo Kuharić, born 15 April 1919 in Pribić near Krasic. His résumé was typical when he lived. After completing the Theology Study, he was assigned to the priest in 1945. It was the lead age of organizing communist criminals, and it determined the framework of his church life and world life. The Communists tried to kill him twice, but God's will saved him. When they broke into his parish office in Racco’s stream and left a message that if he did not leave, he decided to fight with his courage and faith in God and despite the threats of the enemy. He spent 19 years in that parish. He was charged by Archbishop Alojsia Stepinac with the words of the famous saying, "I am sending you into a bloody bath. Just as Jesus told his disciples, I send you as sheep among the wolves.". It was the age of Bleiburg, the Crossroad, the killing and disappearance of civilians, women and children, the time when the darkness of hatred entered the red souls. But it did not hesitate young priest Kuharic to persist in his struggle against love against hatred. About those years, in 1991, when he served Mass for the Macelic Victims, he said, "It was a terrible time. When all the ethical principles and all the conventions that were always protected and wounded from violence were affected, the ideology of hatred showed how deeply man can fall when God dies in his conscience." The size of Cardinal Kuharic is that he always went against evil with mildness and peace and was a true teacher of forgiveness. Known for his promotion of Christian criticism, patriotism and dignity of the Croatian people, he fought for the religious freedom and honour of the Croatian people. He promoted mildness, love and faith, as well as perseverance in the protection of Croatian national interests and was one of the most brilliant examples of how the church in Croatia was the only lasting support in preserving the existence of Croatian identity. This was particularly evident in the historical periods of orgies of various conquerors of Croatian spirit, as well as Croatian freedoms and Croatian countries. So Franjo Kuharic also experienced his most brilliant moments in the 1990s in the time of Serbian aggression on the young, newly created Croatian state. Cardinal Bozanic said of this period: "There was a voice of truth and conscience, challenged from various sides. This has happened on issues that can't be at all controversial, I mean his patriotism, respect for other religions, selflessness, concern for a more righteous society, for the dignity of man and family.". And Holy Father Pope John Paul II, expressing his condolences to the believers after the death of the cardinal, said: "In the course of the communist regime, but also during the recent Croatian past marked by the sufferings, he advocated all the forces to defend the freedom and dignity of the Croatian people by uniting mild love with the firm endurance of the shepherd responsible for his flock.". During the period when the aggressor killed and burned Croatia, our cardinal Kuharić sows the words of forgiveness. How much power did it take to get in those moments and say, "If my opponent and my enemy burned down my house, I will not burn down his. If he's destroyed my church, I won't touch his, I'll keep her safe. If he left his home, I wouldn't take a needle from him. If he killed my father, my sister, my brother, I will not return the same measure, but I will honor the life of his father, his son, brother, and sister.". In that, Franjo Kuharić was great. A strong spirit that enabled him to forgive the most severe crimes and brave conduct in the greatest death. At the most difficult moments of history, there was support, hope and comfort. Our spirit towards him, but also towards the whole church that helped us survive that period, we can at least partially return by setting a permanent mark in the rooms of this temple of democracy. A few words about the proposal to appoint Dr. Francis Tudjman. The greatest son of the Croatian people that fate has given us in the most difficult moments of history is certainly Dr. Franjo Tudjman. Doctor of science, academic, historian, warlord, politician. So many lives in one. According to the anti-fascists' beliefs and actions, in youth because of their social views, a burning communist. Like most Croatian patriots, he woke up from a false dream of communism when he saw his true face. Disillusioned leaves all functions, gives up power and position and goes where the communists sent all those who had seen, to a communist prison, because his political sin was great. He sought the historical truth about the terrible period of Croatian history, about World War II, asked for the objectification of the bad side of that period and became the greatest enemy of the communists because he wanted the truth, and yet some can't forgive him today. But Franjo Tudjman is vastly greater than his political opponents. He builds up his idea of Croatian independence and gathers like-minded people. That is why the only Croatian politicians welcome the ready start of the 90s when the prospect of collapse is opened for the Croats of the dark and bloody regime. In this and such regime, which left behind hundreds of thousands of Croatian victims killed after the end of World War II, hundreds killed by the co-operation arm abroad, tens of thousands imprisoned because of political belief did not survive for the Croatian people. Dr. Franjo Tudjman was the only one wise and brave enough to remove communists from power in the first democratic elections and always spoke at meetings before that period, that communism could only endure the first democratic elections and he proved it. But his historic mission did not stop at that because the goal was an independent Croatian state. He would speak for our policy of peace and justice, but knowing our bloody history, let's prepare for the worst, be careful not to give the slightest cause for war, but prepare for him. And unfortunately, he was right again. Serbian aggression with the help of the Yugoslav Army on a young and unarmed state was more ruthless than any aggression in history. Instead of a peaceful period of the young state comes destruction and destruction, instead of establishing a legal order, killing and torture. But this time unlike similar situations in history, Croatia had Franjo Tudjman. He chose a wise path determined by his knowledge of history. He said, if history is the teacher of life, then this time we won't lose the war. So he gathered everything he had on the left and right, which is why he did not reconcile, but reconciled all the deep divisions of Croatian society, immobilized in the defence of all the people's energy. Only those to whom it was foreign and the idea of free Croatia fell apart. Many have not endured this long and hard journey. They fell off and became political opponents. It's because only the biggest sees away, and that's why every nation calls them their greats, and the little ones who fall off look at their backs and pile up their anger, sometimes for a short time these little permits to deceive the people themselves, but history will only remember the greats. And the greatest historical value of Franjo Tudjman is that he created a Croatian state with his people and that is why the people re-elected him in all elections and therefore he remained undefeated from the political scene. Some people are trying to beat him now, because they couldn't beat him for life. Now that he's gone, but their historical anonymity is guaranteed. The immeasurable love for its people and state drove his tears out when he raised his Croatian arrive before the Croatian National Assembly, then to the State only to the Croatian, and the male tears could not hide at the memorials of his dead soldiers. His courage was proverbial and for me personally it was the most common relationship with him. I remember December '91. when he sent me to Osijek for the national legitimacy of Slavonia in the event of the prospect of cutting off the last northern communication, and the instructions ended with the words, "If we fail to defend the last road communication for Slavonia, we have lost the war. My command in that case is that you all have to go back however you know through Hungary, let's die together on the nearest battlefield, to the nearby Cup, the Croats won't have a state this time, but they will have another Zrinjski, which is a pledge that the country will eventually still be created." That's what only the greatest say, and it's a model that binds, but the war isn't just won by courage and patriotism, it takes wisdom, and it radiates from Tudjman in every decision. Many did not understand his negotiating tactics when you were weaker, and wars when you had power, for it was the only way David could defeat Goliath. Franjo Tudjman failed only in one, failed on the side of the Croatian idea of free state to acquire some Western friends he was so anxious about, and from them he received mostly blows, arms embargo, Southeast integration, Dayton, The Hague. The political gnomes did not understand again and called it an isolationist, the one who first introduced the pursuit of the West into Croatian politics. Even though many today open their eyes after the last Hague ruling, we are happy that in times of war we had a man who first understood it, so he did the best he could under the circumstances. Although Croatia was an unwanted child, Tudjman introduced young Croatia into the United Nations and the Council of Europe. He has succeeded in what some today do not forgive. In the war he maintained democracy, in the war he created a rule of law, in the war he abolized the enemy, in the war the economic recovery of the state began, he created the foundation of all the progress of Croatia that we are experiencing today. He has enabled us to be as proud as other nations. He has joined the oldest European people in the society of those who decide their own fate and is therefore the greatest. These are the reasons why I ask you to support the idea of setting up our greats, their supporters to worship each morning with respect, their opponents to finally start thinking, and foreign guests to see how we, like these strangers, appreciate the foundations on which we came. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95950	Proposer, representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95951	Dear Mr. President, just three sentences of gratitude. First of all, it is an idea of an independent representative who does not have any weight in this House if not supported by the majority, so I would like to thank, above all, the Croatian Democratic Community that will support it. I hope that fellow Linic will also influence the SDP to support them. One of the first gestures we made was towards the late edge of Racan. When we won the election then Racan called me to somehow loosen the atmosphere to play a tennis game. I went to Tudjman, he said how not to. It's better, he says, to play tennis than to close them. Whoever ends up in prison wins power in this unfortunate state. So I'd like to thank you and I'd like to say that as far as HSS and these parties are concerned, I think everyone will support it. And I'd like to thank Dr. President himself. Andri Hebrang at a very contentious exhibition, of course, of course, that's why they had a dose of apologism that I wouldn't afford. And the very idea that you might be in St. John's Square. A mark that cannot be changed in its name could be placed in a place where the late president shed his tears, but it is not the area of our jurisdiction. We have this High House, we are autonomous in it, I would only pray in the end that when and if caught, he accepts this decision to task the secretariat to realize that this decision would not depend on political will, no matter who wins the majority in this House. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95952	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision to set up the memorial of the model cardinal Dr Franjo Kuharic and the first Croatian president of Croatia, Dr Franjo Tudjman, in the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 104 for, 3 against, 8 abstentions, the proposed decision was made. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95955	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Based on Article 7. The Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts is sent to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ratify the guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the "Plinacro Gas pipelines II", i.e. to finance the implementation of the development plan for the construction and modernisation of the gas transport system in the Republic of Croatia in the period from 2007 to 2011. The contract was signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia by Mr Ivan Shuker, Minister of Finance in Split on 31 July 2007, and by the European Investment Bank Mr Matthias Kollatz-Ahnen, Vice-President of the Bank. The contract allowed Plinacro to conclude a loan contract where the Republic of Croatia provides a loan guarantee and is not a burden on the budget. At this point, I would like to stress that the loan agreement for "PLINACRO II" was signed between "PLINACRO" and the European Investment Bank on the same day by the President of the "PLINACRO" Board Mr Branko Radosevic and the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank and is located in the materials ahead of you. The project consists of the construction of new pipelines and facilities and the development of a transport system of gas pipelines owned by PLINACRO in accordance with the previously approved changes and additions of the development plan, construction and modernisation of the gas transport system in the Republic of Croatia from 2002 to 2011, and for the period 2007 to 2011. In this brief address, I would like to remind you of the basic objectives of the development plan for the construction and modernisation of the gas transport system of the Republic of Croatia from 2002 to 2011. The first Pula-Karlovac gas pipeline system including the regional gas pipeline Pula-Vodnjan-Umag and Kukuljanovo-Omisalj with the corresponding moderate reduction stations. The Gas system Like and Dalmatia, which includes the Bosiljevo-Split-Ploče gas pipeline and the Benkovac-Zadar-Sibenik-Drniš-Knin regional gas pipeline and a moderate reduction station. The gas pipeline system of central eastern Croatia, consisting of the Freeica-Donji Miholjac-Drava-Serdahelj and Hungary with the purpose of opening up a new supply route, the Zagreb-Zabok-Rogatec-Slovenian Master's gas pipeline with the purpose of increasing the supply capacity of Russian gas from the already existing supply route, and the opening of the Free-Bosnian Ship interconnection, as well as the construction and reconstruction of a series of facilities on the already existing gas transport system. In the period from 2007 to 2011, construction of a total of 660 kilometers of 75 bar pipelines, 260km of 50 bar pipelines and 25 moderate reduction stations was planned. Total investment for the total second investment period from 2007 to 2011 is approximately 443m euros. To close the entire financial structure of the company "PLINACRO d.o.o." A 190m-euro loan that can be realised with a 20-year repayment period is needed. The contract with the European Investment Bank, which is approved with the State guarantee "PLINACRO" is a prerequisite for the implementation of those projects, for further gasification of the Republic of Croatia, which is of particular national interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95956	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for "Plinarro Gasodides II". I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Unanimity with 119 votes for and this law accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95959	Just one piece of information. Can we know exactly what agenda we're going to be working on today?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95960	By the time we get there.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95961	So what does that mean?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95962	That means what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95963	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Seventh Framework Programme is the main programme of the European Union for the financing, research of technological development and coordination of emerging scientific and technological policies. Its total budget is 50 billion euros. It refers to the period from 2007 to 2013 and is the continuation of the Sixth Framework Programme in which Croatia was very successful. Let me just mention that we've been participating from the 3.2m-euro budget, and we've drawn about 10.5m euros. What are the benefits? I'll be very brief. What are the benefits for the Republic of Croatia from participating in the Seventh Framework Programme? It is a better use of existing research capacities both human and infrastructure through participation, networking with European institutions, the possibility of approving and obtaining large projects in millions of kunas, in fact millions of euros and an incentive researcher for the needs of Croatia's economy and strengthening the competitiveness of our economy. It is certainly important that participation in the Seventh Framework Programme will lead to strengthening regional, research and technological capacity and potential in the Republic of Croatia. And what I would say only at the end, in fact, is that in the field of science and research there is no legal gain, there is no acquis, so the precondition for membership in the European Union is essentially full participation in the framework programmes, and this is the proposal for this law. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95964	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the 7th Framework Programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary Drazen Vicic Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95966	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government accepts the amendment, as referred to in Article 5 only nomotechnically... edits.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95967	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity passed law with 119 votes in favour. We move to the next point - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Explosive Substances Act, emergency procedure – first and second reading, P.Z. No. 790 Government proposal. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative, Internal Policy and National Security. State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Ivica Kirin will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State! ... What did I say? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[I told you, Hansel Kirin. I've already promoted you to the minister, but...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95969	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, in short, there has been a need for amendments and amendments to the law, and I will only count the most important reasons why we have proposed to amend this Explosive Substances Act. Therefore, it was necessary to regulate the problem of the production of explosive substances which has not been well solved so far, and this law has enabled the adoption of sublegal regulations to address the problem of the production of explosive substances. The legal basis for the adoption of a sub-legislative regulation is then laid down laying down the spatial, technical and security conditions for which the sales of P1 pyrotechnics must be satisfied. It was then established that the interior minister's authority should regulate the way in which the mining permit is withdrawn by sublaw. An obligation to monitor persons performing mining operations by persons holding authorisation for that type of mining shall be established. The participation of the Ministry of Interior in the process of issuing a local, building permit for buildings whose purpose is the production and, or storage of explosive substances is established. Finally, the obligation to coordinate the business of legal persons with the provisions of the Explosive Substances Act and the provisions of this law is also prescribed. So these were the most important reasons why we proposed this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Explosive Substances Act. And finally, we accept the amendments of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95970	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Explosive Substances Act. The amendments proposed by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the applicant. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Unanimity with 118 votes for, passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95973	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence in August 2007 created legal assumptions for the adoption of a decision by the Croatian Parliament on the non-inviting of recruits on the obligation to serve the military term. Article 11 of the Law stipulates that the Croatian Parliament may decide not to call the recruits on the obligation to serve the military deadline and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, with the prior consent of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision not to call the recruits to compulsory military service. The growing complexity of future missions and tasks of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the need to modernise military techniques require the adaptation of the existing type of military organisation or the completion of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to professional composition and in the framework of military service to volunteers. Professionalisation of our armed forces is one of the established reform objectives of the achievement that includes, among other things, the suspension of compulsory military service and the introduction of voluntary military service. In accordance with the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in 2006 to 2015, armed forces will develop their capabilities by relying on a fully voluntary fill-up of up to 2,000 voluntary handbooks per year. I note that if the interest in voluntary military service is greater than this number, the Ministry of Defence or the Armed Forces will accept all voluntary handbooks and legal changes have also enabled military service, voluntary military service to be made available to women. Voluntary military service ensures highly motivated personnel, training the entry of an adequate number of trained personnel into the active and reserve composition of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Non-inviting recruits to compulsory military service will have no impact on the combat preparedness of the armed forces. Overall, the projection of the trained human reserve potential according to the provisions of the Law on Defence because the obligation for men is up to 55 years of life, and together with the state of 1.1.2008 Croatia has a qualified potential of 751 thousand and 106 taxpayers. And the example, at the end of this period that covers the long-term development plan, means 1.1.2015, the projection is that the qualified human potential of the reserve would be 439 thousand 85. The fact that it has made possible to make this decision because the legal provision says according to risk assessments and threats and defence capabilities of the country that has contributed to this is expected by Croatia, with full and reasoned optimism, to the next NATO summit in Bucharest, to expect an invitation and entry into the defence collective system to now offer this possibility of voluntary military service or suspension of compulsory military service. Therefore, I propose that you support this decision, to make this decision, which since 1 January 2008, the money will no longer be called for to serve the military term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95974	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95975	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, So if there is a law to raise both hands in this House, then hands should be raised for this bill so that our young men no longer leave to serve a military term. What's happening today just doesn't make sense anymore. More young men serve at this time a civilian military deadline than they go to military service, or as I would already call it. Croatia clearly needs a small professional army. I think even this proposal of 16,000 people is too much. This army must understandably be well-trained, it must be as professional as possible. It is clear that I also advocate that the Croatian army return from Afghanistan as soon as possible. There will be dead, the army has nothing more to look for. The war is breaking down, I'm afraid that mission there is lost in advance. But let's let it go now. To get back to the point. We today have far more people serving that civilian military deadline than they do on that regular military deadline. It means leaving these young men home. The army should also return these military properties to local self-government. The sooner these military properties get rid of them, I think it'll be better both for the military and the state, and for local self-government, and for the economy, and for the country as a whole. This law that we're talking about today is a good law, this is a brave law. It may also have a certain political dimension and message, and it will certainly and on that basis be well accepted among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The second question is, could one such law have been passed a year or two ago, not in this election time. However, no matter what, it is good for the law to come into life from 1.1.2008. Make sure your boys are home at last. This sending to the army I'd say the kind of army that we have today costs our parents more than they're at the studio. Let's just say my parents come and have boys at the service, so I have to pay them a trip to Pula, so I have to pay them a trip from Pula to Buzet, and then I'll give them just as much when they're home over the weekend. Therefore, let the gentlemen in power agree or they will be in the army or they will be at home. If they're in the administration, I don't know the firemen or in some other bodies, I can even understand it, so if that's what this civilian service is for. But basically what this pretends to be is mostly on some ports, etc., that doesn't make any sense anymore and that's why we should leave them at home. The law is good. Maybe he's been late for a while, but like I said, he needs both hands up for him. What the minister said earlier that the law would not affect the combat preparedness of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is probably true but it is also true that Croatia is sending a message to this legislative proposal to all countries in its neighbourhood that it wants peace, that it wants to resolve absolutely every dispute in a peaceful way and thus the Croatian government sends a message that this country is a factor of stability in until yesterday's unstable space. And I think that this is the most important message that follows from this legislative proposal and that so much of it should be supported, even because of the fact that this law will welcome the great majority of parents, especially the young man who would, for example, after 1.1.2008, have to do military service in this form or that form.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95976	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision on non-inviting recruits to military service obligations. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 117 for, 2 abstentions, a proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95979	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs by decision of the Croatian Parliament on the participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan ISAF The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to report every 6 months to the Croatian Parliament on the status of the mission and the work of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission. [[- And you're here already?]] The report concerns the tasks and obligations of members of the Croatian Armed Forces Contingent between 1 November 2006 and 30 June 2007. In the ISAF mission in Afghanistan since August 2006, there are 8, there is an 8th Croatian contingent in October and November 2006. The mission increased the number of members of the armed forces and thus reached a total of 148 members of the Croatian Contingent in the mission. In December 2006 The Croatian Parliament has made a new decision on the participation of members in this mission for 2007 and is referred to by this decision up to 200 and at this moment up to 200 people on this mission, and in 2008, the possibility of our participation goes to 300 members with a normal agreement with the decision of this High House. By decision, the Croatian Parliament also set out the elements of the structure of the forces in this mission. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia shall participate in the ISAF mission under the ISAF rules without national restrictions on the deployment and deployment of forces and shall have no mandate or ability to impose peace. They are tasked with supporting the preservation of peace, training of the Afghan army and making contact with the local population in order to build trust. Fighters act exclusively in self-defense. In February and March 2007, the replacement of part of the force of the 8th Contingent was carried out with the forces of the 9th Contingent Armed Forces and the transfer of the commandant's duties was carried out. It is currently in preparation to replace the 9th Contingent forces of the 10th to be executed, which will take place during this period. After conducting the rotation in August 2007, a total of 200 members were on the mission. All members of the Croatian contingent in the ISAF mission have professionally and responsibly carried out their duties. On several occasions, they were commended for successful action and gained considerable experience and contributed to the achievement of the mission’s ultimate objective. A significant high assessment of the contribution of our members to the mission in Afghanistan. It promotes the reputation of Croatian armed forces as well as the international position of the Republic of Croatia. The costs of the Croatian contingent in the peace mission in Afghanistan during the period from 1 November to 30 June 2006 amounted to 100 million and 95 thousand kuna and were secured in the state budget for the division of the MORH peace mission. Dear MPs, this report fully reflects the condition, conditions and action of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in this technically demanding and securely complex peace mission. The report is objective and what is the biggest, which causes the most attention it is and the fact and it is responsible for you Croatian soldiers are well equipped. Croatian soldiers are well trained for this peace mission. I repeat once again before you distinguished parliamentary representatives and this respected home, there is no quality of equipment and there is no situation that can give absolute protection to the Croatian soldier, but it is part of the profession they have chosen and to my satisfaction as their minister performs more than professionally. Thank you very much, and please support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95980	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95981	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Parliament. The question of whether or not to say a referendum for joining NATO is an artificial political issue for me. For me, it's a really political question whether to leave or withdraw an army from Afghanistan. I personally advocate that the army withdraws from Afghanistan. I think that at this very moment, the mission of the international forces in Afghanistan has been condemned to failure, as the mission of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan has failed in a timely way, and I am afraid that this mission of NATO or the United Nations in Afghanistan will also end in an infamous manner. The ISAF or this peace mission, as we call it today, is no longer in control of even 30% of Afghanistan. They are being killed, and only perhaps God wanted no member of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to die so far. I'm afraid it won't be possible to avoid it. But I wonder if the next day the defence minister Mr. Roncevic or someone else like they didn't do after the Cornish tragedy will go to the families of these injured young men and express their condolences. ... Damir Caine, Mr. Bebic, was on this mission in 2001. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We all remember that insidious terrorist attack on New York. We seem to have unanimously voted in 2001 to leave the first 50 Croatian young people the way of Afghanistan. I thought at the time, I think today that this Taliban regime should have been torn down, which has given him or given him today the Osama Bin Laden that Afghanistan used to prepare the attack on New York City. But since then, watch out for these institutions in the Afghanistan area, unfortunately, it hasn't gone far. The government in Afghanistan isn't working. Someone will say if you pull an army out of Afghanistan that's where Osama Bin Laden or that Taliban force will enter. And that's possible. Afghanistan's economy at this point is opium, drugs, here and there, some carpet, and the question is, is there a rescue? I was with several other representatives last year at the NATO military command centre for Afghanistan and did not see those troops in the area controlled the situation. Croatia first sent 50 soldiers to Afghanistan. We're on today about 150 soldiers. After all, there will be three hundred or maybe more soldiers. These three hundred soldiers, and here is Mr Zubovic and will confirm that I spoke in the command centre of NATO and in Brussels and in some other cities in the Netherlands, will stand at over 1/3 of the budget that we are currently singled out for the Croatian army. I am not running away from the fact that the United Nations in Croatia at the time when Croatia was the hardest, and that should be pointed out, there were over 10,000 soldiers in these areas. Many of these soldiers, I don't know how many, and they should have placed a monument somewhere they died in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. But there was also a goal here, and it was clear that the conflict would end and the war would end in Croatia after 15 January of '92. when Croatia fought for international recognition. The presence of international forces in, among other things, the Republic of Croatia guaranteed the establishment of a lasting peace in these areas. But what we're going to do, where we live is part of Europe, these are mountains of which many peaks cross 7 thousand meters. What do we do today? The question arises as long as it means being in that Afghanistan. Today here in the Republic of Croatia we probably have as many volunteers as we want. But I'm always asking myself what's going to happen, God forbid one of those young men gets hurt the next day. Does anyone see any of those goals? I just don't see him. And I've been thinking so much, and I'm going to say once again that I talked about it, and about NATO headquarters for those guys to retire as soon as possible at home. Some Western countries have announced the withdrawal of the army from Afghanistan, it seems to be France, perhaps Italy, etc. On page 3, there is a security situation, it is said that in the previous period from August to November 2006, the situation in the area of regional command, the north, was calm though unstable. The main causes of instability are associated with criminal activity and factional struggles. We've had a few newspaper texts lately that convince what kind of opportunity they have today, say, in the space of Afghanistan, how many attacks have only happened in the last two or three years. February 2005, June 2006, 12.9.2006, 31.11.2007, 19.5.2007, 6.7.2007, 2.8.2007 and so on. In Afghanistan, as Mr Zubovic can best confirm to you at this time, there are about 30,000 foreign soldiers, from Croatia to the United States. 70,000 Afghans who have been trained, for example, for these activities, to the number of 30 million inhabitants. In Croatian camp, we see who works. It works there, etc. A few and a mission, I won't talk about it much. But once again, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that for 9 months the Croatian Army mission to Afghanistan has provided a budget of 100 million kuna for 2006. From this year on, he's been providing 250 million kuna. And higher than the safety of those young men, those children we must provide as much money as they need. For the end, I absolutely understand Croatian power, but I always ask myself what if one of them gets hurt. I know they're volunteers, that they go there on their own responsibility. But we lost 12 firefighters recently, the whole nation was hit, let's not have our soldiers back in the coffins.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95982	Thank you. Defence Minister, Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95983	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Only because of the tone record of this session, so there are no misunderstandings. I don't know if Mr. Cain is familiar, I don't know exactly what he was alluding to, but after the "Kornatic Tragedy" and the Prime Minister himself and Minister Roncevic and Minister Kirin expressed their condolences to the families of the fallen firefighters. I don't know if it's familiar to you, if it means anything to you, but I assure you it is. I assure you so. You commended the stay of peacemakers in Croatia and said he had a goal. He is closer to you as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, he is more vital to you. But believe me, I've been to Afghanistan twice, and there's movement, there's movement. Seven and a half million Afghan children attend school today. 7 and a half million Afghan children today receive some other information, receive information that is not violence, receive information that is not only that opium macaque can live. There's no jumping changes there. Who awaits them in great error. But I am more than convinced that the presence of Croatian soldiers in Afghanistan is welcome, they are there professionally doing their job and helping establish peace and democracy in that part of the world. If it's somehow good doesn't share, it doesn't belong to just one people, then more than I'm convinced it belongs to the Afghan people. And now that we're able to make our contribution we give it honorably. Croatian soldiers in Afghanistan are in the most complex and secure in the negative sense of the peace mission of all our missions. I said there's no equipment that provides protection, which excludes the possibility of injury. If there was a Croatian government, she would buy it and give it to Croatian soldiers. We're at a high level of equipment. We're at a high level of training, and normally we'll all be sad if one day the most tragic happens. You could only read what you read about the distinguished parliamentary representative from the newspaper events in Afghanistan because the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the Croatian Government reported them transparently to the Croatian public. Every event, every event that is related or has some touch points with Croatian soldiers we will always put on our ministry's website, because we believe that the Croatian public has the right to know. But we also believe that the Croatian public has the right to know that this mission is noble, that this mission is good. It burdens the state budget at the amounts I said. We've been planning these funds and with the financing of this mission, thank God we have no problem. Once again, please support this mission.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95984	Thank you. I'm closing this agenda. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan for the period from 1 November 2006 to 30 June 2007. I am voting on the following conclusion: The said report is accepted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 116 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95991	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, allow me just a few words to refer to this point. It is a proposal for two decisions, a resolution decision and a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Article 16 The energy regulation law stipulates that the Governing Council of the Energy Regulatory Agency has five members, one of whom is the President of the Governing Council, and is appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia at a time of five years with the possibility of another appointment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law amending and supplementing the Law on energy regulation... The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of that law, propose to the Croatian Parliament that the current President, the Vice-President and the current members of the Governing Council of the Agency be dismissed and re-appointed to the same duty so that each year the term of office of one member of the Governing Council ceases, and in accordance with Article 6. The law amending and supplementing the Energy Regulatory Act and a new designation shall not be considered to be a re-nomination. [[You don't understand.]] On the day of discharge from the duties of the current President and of the current Vice-President and current members of the Management Board of the Agency, they shall be terminated from working with the Agency, with the Agency obliged to conclude working contracts with the newly appointed President of the Management Board of the Agency and the newly appointed members of the Management Board of the Agency for a specified period of time until the expiry of the term of office of the prescribed provisions of the law. For that reason, and in order to implement the provision of Article 16(1), The law amending and supplementing the Energy Regulatory Act requires the adoption of the proposed decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95992	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There's no one reported. I'm closing this agenda. Proposals for decisions on the resolution of the President, Vice-President and Members so far and the appointment of a new President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. I am voting on the motion for a solution. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 115 for and 2 abstentions, i.e. most of the proposed decisions taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95996	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, pursuant to Article 38. The Law on Islands The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to report once a year to the Assembly on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands. The report submitted, which is divided into six chapters, contains six chapters containing legislative activities, law enforcement and total investment in the development of the island in the past year, so this Parliament passed five laws directly affecting life and the economy on Croatian islands, hence the Law on Public Line Coastal Maritime Transport, which introduced a new way of concessioning and carrying out maritime transport, and contributed to a better maritime connection between the Croatian islands. Furthermore, the Health Protection Act, which restored the possibility of establishing independent health homes on Croatian islands, contributes significantly to the quality of health services on Croatian islands. Furthermore, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, which laid down by law that 72% of the total income tax revenue is belonging to units of local self-government and in islands and thus increases the budgets of local self-government units on Croatian islands by a total of 20 million kuna. Furthermore, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Islands introduced the first law for small, uninhabited and occasionally populated Croatian islands in such a way that the Republic of Croatia has the right to consume the right of first purchase on these small and uninhabited islands. Furthermore, the Law on the Declaration of the Island of Lastova was passed to Nature Park. The report itself shows that last year for various projects, primarily infrastructure projects, but also other projects on Croatian islands were invested in a total of around billions and 256 million kuna, either directly from the state budget or through public companies such as Croatian roads, Croatian waters, etc. When the total investment in the Croatian islands has been counted in the past 4 years, so in the past 3 and projections according to the Republic of Croatia's 2007 budget, 5 billion kuna has been invested on Croatian islands. What is especially highlighted for 2006 is that for the purpose of better transport connections of Croatian islands, nightlines for larger Croatian islands such as Hvar, Brac, Ugljan, Cres and Losinj and Korčula are introduced, and besides those islands that have been bridged in this way, almost 90% of Croatian islanders have an uninterrupted permanent connection with the mainland. In the past, therefore, in 2006 projects were carried out on the construction or construction of 15 ports which function as a more quality transport link, so with those 15 and another 39 ports in the term of office of this Government were practically covered by construction, construction or reconstruction of almost 54 ports and ports. The number of shipowners connecting Croatia's islands to nearly 250 thousand nautical miles per year has also been increased, requiring approximately additional detachments from the Croatian budget to subsidise the ship's total amount of about 80 million kuna. What we have also done is that, in accordance with the amendments and additions of the Island Act, we have created a state programme for the preservation and use of small, occasionally populated and uninhabited islands that are practically encyclopaedia, the atlas of all Croatian islands because all islands, islands in the Republic of Croatia, are signed, practically made atlases, i.e. the encyclopaedia of all these islands, and that is one very great value that truly Croatian islands are depicted as a great Croatian wealth. It is therefore undeniable that the implementation policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the segment of the development of the island has been designed to protect existing values, so all resources on Croatian islands in order to make economic, social and demographic progress. So this report, with its concrete information on implementation activities and the funds invested, is clearly evidence of positive shifts and achievements achieved so far in the implementation and achievement of the intended objective, which is thus designed by the programme of sustainable development of Croatian islands, and later translated through the Island Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95997	The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative of Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95998	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is this material that the report on the effects of the implementation of the 2006 Island Act shows how much efforts the Croatian Government has made in indeed a balanced and uniform development of the entire country, and in particular the development of sustainable development of the island, in accordance with the constitutional provision in Article 52 that islands are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. What should be said briefly is that all segments of social life on Croatian islands, starting from the smallest to the largest inhabited and uninhabited, are covered, that the material is very precise, very systematically analytically written all that is important for the life and development of this very part of the Croatian state. The numbers that must be repeated and highlighted is that exactly the number of inhabitants on our islands of 124 thousand 870 says how justified it is to develop islands, to create assumptions for the rest of life on these islands, and it must be said that not only in terms of municipal social infrastructure, but also legislative activity in 2006 gives reasons for optimising that we are finally not entering the philosophically into the development of Croatian islands, but we are doing it planically, systematically based on analytical data, based on scientific achievements. For each commendation, promotional activities are highlighted because the relevant ministry has funded the research project and publication of the book of the current state and modern demographic processes on the Adriatic Islands. The author of Dr.... Laic, who systematically deals with this problem, has been given the opportunity to do what he did along with Roko Misetic that so far's island statistics can be completed and to be realistic in order to demonstrate actuality in the direction of the right demographic situation on the islands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I also point out is that on the Croatian islands of Brac, Hvar, Vis, Cres, Rab and others, separate homes of health are re-formed not only to raise the quality of health care, but to strengthen administrative, not bureaucratic, but administrative layer precisely by wanting to achieve what we say with knowledge to better results. Investment in islands is made in two ways, either directly by investing in State budget grants or through lending. A comparison in 2006 with the basis of the Law on Islands and the basis of tasks and obligations set out in the Law on Islands Development for 2006 amounted to nearly a billion kunas of appropriations and legal persons. These include all inhabited Croatian islands. Particular attention is given and confirms the correctness of the decision to introduce "winjets" so that those who live and work on islands, who also have vehicles registered on the islands can be granted a discount on the purchase of an island map, the introduction of so-called "Wine." Of course, it is not negligible to introduce night lines where the isolation of people living on the island by introducing numerous new lines is lost. For example, here, and now that the four-day line has passed we have Starigrad, Split, Supetar, four times as much where it shows the real justification of such traffic connections because this is what the state really has to do and what no one but the state can do. It has also not been neglected to develop the maritime development that speaks of the study of nautical tourism because it has been a tendency precisely in recent years for nautical tourism to develop, that existing ports and anchor ports need to be arranged, to stop all those who are eager for safe port, electricity, water and wastewater, so as not to devastate numerous bays. And this was made by a strategy of nautical tourism where there was a public promotion in Split so that all those who want and who are harder to do it in a scientific way, not to go in a song, determine what we need to protect Croatia's Adriatic from excessive pollution, to protect the ecological standards of the most developed countries in the world that have islands. This also gave our scientists a chance to take advantage of all their knowledge by investing in ports and ports with the largest number on the islands. Investment in islands through grants is very precise by language numbers indicated this material effect. And I believe that it will be only a way to further develop islands and evenly every part of the Croatian state. What needs to be pointed out in particular is the protection of the environment and waste management in order to allow in a modern way for islands to be no longer dumps, especially with the most illegal, illegal, and just the contribution of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund to a major step and to move forward boldly. Unlike the previous years in 2004 and 2005, where 3 billion were invested in two years and previous years of constants, this is exactly how all segments of Croatian society are expected, both businessmen and employees, both by income and by unemployed and by pensioners, as stated very precisely here. Of course, very clear indicators and exact numbers tell us how many individual island inhabitants have, how many geographical things they should repeat to admire what is most developed. I would also like to point out that the implementation policy of the Croatian Government in the part of the development of the island is designed to just protect existing values, preserve all resources and economic, social, demographic progress and development because it has not been ignored either the development of libraries or the restoration of fortresses and churches, all of those cultural goods that serve as pride to islanders who have built and deepened their roots for centuries so as not to give anyone the opportunity to come to their place. What should also be repeated in addition to draining and sewering that it is in one true sense that the words allow students to develop their sports skills on the islands in built sports halls. There, and last time there was a delayed opening, a great ceremony in Komiža where it is said about the island, a sports centre that will really give everyone a chance to develop sports talents. Firehouses decorated and groomed. Here, the last one was a big one just project action right in the town of Hvar where the monument of St. Among other things, so that part of Croatian society would be developed voluntarily by a fire company in that way. Fishing ports and markets, fishing ports in Komiža confirm that indeed the Croatian government has not ignored any segments and that this will be so in the future. Finally, I would like to thank all my colleagues for the parliamentary MPs who voted for legislative assumptions that are heading towards better development, thorough and systematic, so I will also end up with Hectorovic's one jump when he returned from his tour of the island of Solta, just promoting the most developed part of the economy, which is tourism. "She would like to give birth to her cousins so that these days may come more often." Thank you to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government for such excellent results [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u95999	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96000	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives! When I read this guarantee budget, protested guarantees, the law itself, I'm increasingly convinced that Istra, which per capita is the most isolated in the budget, is the least profitable. And I'm afraid it's no longer an accident. It's conscious and it's one policy. And that's why I really and honestly advocate a redistribution, etc. And we'll do it again, but it won't be enough for us, because you see, the more you do in this country, the less you have. And the less you do, the more you get. Clearly, it's not perspective, but it's time for some to learn and fish. But this is now a report on the implementation of the Island Law. The islands, as we read in these materials, have been given priority, and that's okay. Some others have a priority on segregation. It's not my fault for the islands. I feel guilty about some other systems. So I don't know about the shipbuilding recovery going 4.2 billion kuna Oil does not pull a single kuna. And then you're really a man asking what this is. The bank's going down, everybody's getting something. Istria again or the Istrian Bank gets nothing. I'm not about for others to get nothing but some of them never get it. And that's why I'm pushing for that decentralisation, for local self-government, autonomy, however you want at least one third of the funds to stay where those funds are and they come true. I think one such structure would be if one third of the funds from VAT to excise duties, from customs duties concerning the island or that county there remained from not knowing the excise duty on alcohol, cigarettes, etc. The fastest development between us and our islands. When did our islands grow the fastest? Let's be honest and admit it was back in '74. By the '90s, it means by the terms of the Constitution of that '74. A year. At that time, up to 50% of the fiscal income remained for our municipalities and island municipalities. It means that the fastest development of a Cres, the fastest development of Losinj, the big, the small, it doesn't matter, Rab, Pag, Brač, Hvar, Korčula, and that I don't count them yet because I don't know almost a thousand other islands. Let our islanders be honest and admit how much the hotel has opened since '74. '90s. There are some islanders here, too. And how many new hotels on our islands have opened since the '90s? the years to this day. I'll tell some of you not to count on a hotel renovation since '90. To date, in the 17 years on our islands, no hotel that has more than one hundred and fifty beds has been opened, I am convinced. If only three new hotels on our islands are open in Istria, no new hotel with over one hundred and fifty beds has been opened. How many fishermen have been closed since the '90s? until 2007, how many jobs have been closed since the '90s. until 2007. And it's still good for all of us how we live and how much we do. I think we'll all agree when it comes to this law that the best social policy is full-time employment policy. The best policy for the elderly again is a policy full of employment because if children can do anything else, and the best policy for young people is a policy full of employment because there is no better policy than when these young people can get to work. That few regions today or County in Croatia can afford. I think there's Istria somewhere, and neither is she. For example, one of the Labinstites of the 1990s was almost at the bottom. Today, it has five percent unemployment and will quickly be the only problem and in that environment how to reach the workforce. I think that can be achieved, say, on our islands. Islands must live 365 days, not just 45, 50, maximum 60 days. Give God 60 days if it takes us so long. I doubt it lasts 60 days. I doubt anyone on one Hvar is betraying their room for 60 days. From 40 days to 45 days, you can't live 365 days. When I speak for this speaker today that in one Istria tourism is only third in the total county income of 10% and all of us experience a tourist destination, we are not trusted. When I say that industry comes first with more than 35% of all counties in Croatia and we don't believe it. So, from 45 to 50 days of one season, you can't live. And what is left for you, but to draw funds from other parts of Croatia. And I claim that our islands are pearls of the Mediterranean and that they can privilegedly be a place to live all 365 days. That's why you see, gentlemen, I'm talking about decentralisation. And that's the essence of this island story. For example, this loan in this material for small employers amounts to exactly 7 million 866 thousand 251 kuna. Well, that's nothing. And then, on the other hand, it's said that the islands on the side, which, 17, gave a billion 267 million kuna. But the bottom line of this report is this information on page 29 that I almost couldn't believe. The ratio of employees and pensioners in the Republic of Croatia is 1.43 per 1st, the ratio of employees and pensioners on islands is 1.29 per 1. Worse than the Croatian average. And once again I will say that islands must be privileged environments for life in the Republic of Croatia. If so, and I have no reason to doubt this information from the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, etc. Then it's terrible. This pensioner-worker relationship should change, and I guess that must be a priority to all of us and that must be it. And I want to believe that it can change. If this happened in one Labin, which was at the bottom of the 1990s, where it all cost 10 thousand jobs, they lost over 5 and a half thousand jobs, then I am deeply convinced that this must be achieved on our islands. It is clear that this could be achieved among other things by this state to be restructured, this country needs to be radically decentralised and no one should be given anything to the islanders, given anything but allowed to live on their own. What's most important and what the islands need to get, let's let this laugh go, it's the Crown you know very well, you live on Hvar. When did your island grow the fastest? And I'll do it one more time between '74. and '90. A year. We see now everything is needed, of course we should. And they need roads, especially for me they need roads from Cres to Losinj. And they need docks, and they need water, and they need helipads, and they need more cops to fight drugs and in Pula, and in Hvar, and in Buzet, and in Rijeka, and what I know is where this young man is destroying all of us in Croatia. We do, once again I'm going to say one such potential in those islands, and we don't know how to valorize it. And it's incomprehensible. If that wealth had another country, it would have been a paradise. Islands are paradise, but unfortunately for those people who live there, life is often not like heaven. Maybe you should twist that logic. First, give people a job and then everything else, even though I'm sure again that without road, without water, without docks, people can't survive on those islands. But that ratio of 1.2 workers to one pensioner is just terrible. I agree with the lessons of the islanders should not be held by those who are not islanders. But that's also what I'm saying, don't experience my performance so well-intentioned because I know it can be better, that people should be given a job first, that they need to decentralisation the state. If I'm fighting for the decentralisation of the island then I'm fighting for the decentralisation of Istria, Rijeka, the whole of this country. We need to clear out the health care system. If I'm fighting for your health homes, I'm fighting for the General Hospital in Pula. If I'm fighting drugs on your islands, I'm fighting drugs in Pula, Poreč, Vrsar, etc. If I'm fighting for the islands to connect, I'm fighting for Istria, for example. It connects the railroad. If I'm fighting for infrastructure then I'm fighting for infrastructure and in my space. And I'm also sure that if I fight to convince the Istrians that no one will solve our problems better than ourselves. I also struggle for the islanders to solve their problems on their own, for no one understands these problems better than they do. Neither this government nor the former, nor the future, etc. So let's decentralisation this country. If all of us are clear in our midst of elections for unity I'm not convinced we're going to make a miracle but some small progress can be made. This report weighs a billion and 200 and so many million kunas, clearly it needs to be supported, should continue with this activity in the future. But I do not want everything simply to be determined or realised in the state budget by redistributing funds in the Republic of Croatia, but by just one different approach. Let’s let people simply manage their own way. And that's why I called in for this discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96001	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96002	Dear Mr. President, a colleague has incorrectly stated that the biggest advance on Croatian islands has occurred just since '74. After the Constitution. In fact, the most accurate thing is that the largest development of Croatian islands is recorded by the creation of an independent Croatian state, which is not just spoken by the numbers of municipal and social infrastructure. We need to say what is democratically the richest is precisely multilateral, precisely our freedom. When we look at the number of private winemakers, oil mills, private shipowners of the night line, then it really can't be compared to what it used to be. And then it was working, not that it was nothing. But what's now is a living miracle. And that is precisely the assumption that the more development, sustainable development in each segment is on every Croatian island, because the islands come not only from the Croatian state but from around the world. And most pensioners just want to spend their last days on islands that have nothing to do with islands. From Croatia and from the land and the world. That is why this is the best indicator of excellent work and Croatian Government and Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96003	Final Review State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96004	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here's the final announcement Mr. Cain has encouraged me with certain allegations that do not stand when it comes to the development of Croatian islands. I believe that the islands of the first group, which are better economic, stronger economic islands in Croatia, so Korčula, Hvar, Brac, Krk, Cres, Lošinj, and even Ugljan, therefore, are those islands that are significantly above the average in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that the islands of another group such as Lastovo, Vis, Dugi Otok and other less populated Croatian islands are significantly lagging behind in this economic development compared to these islands that I just listed. But I also want to list a few data on the economic strength of Croatian islands and which are talking about, therefore, one state of life on Croatian islands and the economy on Croatian islands. In fact, in the Republic of Croatia you know that about 11 million tourists live annually. Of which, every 5th tourist is on Croatian islands. If 55 million nights were achieved in Croatia last year, every 5 nights were achieved on Croatian islands. We know how much the total Croatian tourist product participates in the Croatian gross national product, it is spoken about 20%, so of the 20% of the tourist product participated in the Republic of Croatia 20% is achieved on Croatian islands. On the other hand, I want to say I am an islander myself, and I think I can certainly be invited to evaluate the life and state of the economy on Croatian islands, I want to say that Croatian islands are never better connected. In fact, today, I have already said this in my introduction, somewhere around nearly 400 million kuna is invested in subsidising maritime transport and has never been better connected by Croatian islands to the coast. At this point, and this also speaks about the state of the economy and life on Croatian islands we are conducting the construction of 16 wastewater disposal systems. We know that disposal as the last in a series of infrastructure needs comes at the end, so when the island is or when the individual region, the individual space... its possible infrastructure somehow eventually comes to the resolution of wastewater disposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At this point we are therefore building on the Croatian islands 16 wastewater disposal systems. According to our projects by the end of 2010, all Croatian islands, so all inhabited Croatian islands will have a water supply solution, so liquid water. What am I saying? So before the creation of an independent and sovereign Republic of Croatia on certain islands, life and standards may have been in the greatest growth. But today, in any case, all the Croatian islands are curding, looking together much better alive, it's much higher standards than it was before mentioned by Mr. Cain between 1974 and 1990. Also when data are compared from this report, there is therefore a pretty good indication of what problems are being addressed and what problems should be addressed. And precisely on these problems, which is to ensure quality infrastructure, quality maritime integration, quality, quality resolution of all infrastructure projects on islands can be, can be a basis for better quality life on Croatian islands. A few days ago, opening a road on the Peljesac peninsula, I was among the Peljescans who told me that there was never a better place in history on the Peljesce peninsula as it is living today. At this moment, the conditions for living on Peljesac are indeed created through tourism and winemaking and winemaking on Peljesac peninsula, either 3 months or 4 months, and from winemaking and olive growing, as one of the Croatian islands has never lived, because according to the Law on Islands and Peljesac peninsula, it is considered an island. I therefore believe that the measures of the Croatian Government and, first of all, the measures resulting from the Island Law can say that life is slowly returning to the islands. That the economy on islands is being restored and that it is practical, that the growth of the economy on islands is a basis for a better quality of life on Croatian islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96005	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2006 I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2006 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 116 votes unanimously accepted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96008	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, for submitting a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the first 6 months of implementation of the 2007 budget. What I would say at first is, and what I think is most important is actually to say that perhaps for the first time, a report that states that public finances in the first seven months of 2007 have achieved a surplus of 724 million and 793 thousand kuna. Namely, such good indicators, such a good result for the first 6 months of this year is the confirmation of the government's good economic and fiscal policy which is confirmed and which can be seen through the growth of the gross domestic product of 7% in the first quarter and 6.6% in the second quarter of this year. Or in the first half of the year of 6.8%. So no matter what we did last year, we had high growth rates, and in the first six months of this year, economic growth continued its pace. According to previous indicators, we can expect good results in the third quarter, as well as in the last quarter of this year, which will actually lead us to a growth rate of around 6 and a half percent for the whole of 2007. Regarding the revenues of the State budget, it should be said that revenues in the first half were made in the amount of 51 billion and 889 million kuna, which is 14.1% more than in the same period last year. First of all, because of the continued consolidation of public finances. Therefore, certain social funds have been introduced into the system of a single bank account and the process of closing their own budget accounts as well as including all other sub-accounts that were previously outside the state budget. In the first half of 2007, the most tax revenues were raised. Within that group, specific revenue from value added tax and income from profit tax. As for expenditure, it should be said first of all that expenditure in the first half of 2007 was therefore made in the amount of 49 billion and 702 million kuna, with the cost of employees being 9.6 billion kuna, which is actually half of the 2007 budget. The financial expenditures amounted to two billion and 795 million. Subsidies two billion and 900. So all the expenses necessary for the normal functioning of state finances were incurred during the first half of 2007. So there were no defaults in the payments. What I mentioned and what I would eventually point out again, so the first semester was extremely successful. Good income performance, cost control and continued fiscal consolidation resulted in the achievement of the surplus state budget in the first half of this year of 724.8 million kuna, which accounts for a surplus of 0.3% of gross domestic product. I would just point out that during the same period last year, the deficit amounted to 2.2 billion kuna or a deficit of 0.9% of gross domestic product, which shows that an extremely large consolidation and effort has been made in state finances and state finances. According to this result, they are indeed both arranged and fully controlled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96009	Thank you. The Committee's rapporteur? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club is a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96010	Mr. President, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, given the time and the hall, I will try to present on behalf of the HDZ Club only some basic features for the record in this period. The first thing I want to point out in principle, I was recently on the board of governors, so I quote a part of the statement when the governor says, "All macroeconomic objectives other than inflation have been achieved" because inflation has been achieved somewhat lower than planned. That I can actually start this exposure because I'm also in... The interim financing decision said this was the result of responsible and successful management, responsible and successful management of particularly state finances, which is clearly indicated in the country's final fiscal consolidation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Several basic indicators and data that characterize precisely this period and this phenomenon. I'm using the CNB's primary data and partially updated and up-to-date data. When it comes to gross domestic product... The period of global, European, European and domestic experts predicted the achievement of the GDP in this period somewhere between the 4th whole, 4th whole 8%, and it was achieved at a rate of around 6th, 6th and 8th percent for this period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So above the plan, beyond expectations and... very short in the structure which has been achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, industrial production also grew in this period around 7.4% and its basic characteristics in the next period in which the structure in industrial production was achieved. Therefore, the other indicators that have been achieved and, of course, I will point out those which have not been achieved, or which have been achieved under the expected plan. Consumer price index only 1.9% and retail trade at a bit of 6.8%, etc. The unemployment rate and the employment rate, I'm particularly apostrophemic. The lowest in the last 10 years is the unemployment rate, i.e. the highest employment rate in the last 10 years. One month seems to me June, but all of June or July, although the seasonal impact in part, is characterized by a monthly occurrence of 14 and a few thousand employees. It is a seasonal phenomenon, but given that for the entire period, the monthly increase in the number of employees is then clearly saying that this is the most significant data. Export and import. The annual export rate increases exports, therefore in this period 9.9% and import rate 10.2%. It means that imports have grown faster, I also point out that imports have grown faster but I will warn why imports have grown and then why the debt is like that to the outside in this period. The current balance of around 7.7% of gross social product accounts for 85.9% of foreign debt. This item is important and it is alarming in the sense that it is the most important in the next period to be monitored specifically for events and structures, but this structure has been held for a long time in three, in a orderly manner in three areas. The first area are companies that can be happy or companies, the second are banks although the restrictions and restrictions of banks during this period were on those 12%... And it's a third country. [[You don't understand.]] The state has remained at its lowest rate by now seeing that there are no new debts in state finances, but rather part of the previous debt is being serviced from current revenues. So here, too, are happy certain phenomena that we consider to be good. In gross social product, the most significant were participation, investment in capital, personal consumption. Personal consumption, two phenomena out. Real wage increases both net and gross, real salary increases and other population transfers. These transfers are from that part of the retirement debt to the pensioners as well as other transfers. Therefore, the most significant increase is very high in the index and also the rise in state spending, so in those investments that were envisaged. Transfers also in the pension system, i.e. social contributions, also affected this demand. As the gross social product increases in the service sector, we especially highlight the increase in hotel and restaurant services, the increase in financial services, the transport as a new industry that we previously commented on, so it would not because time does not allow, and I only point out as a phenomenon. Then, in industrial production, very short, significant increase in industrial production, the increase in goods of general consumption, and these lasting goods as well as those of non-permanent, but they are non-permanent in third place and capital products, and they mean, however, they also affect that part of employment there. So it's all... kind of tied up. [[You don't understand.]] We have some drop in energy in this period which is interpreted in the warm winter, and it affects both imports and energy exports, therefore it is likely to have a different impact in the next period. The processing industry accounts for about 79.3% of the total industry and, in this sense, from that total industry in this processing industry, good results have been achieved in the metal industry, machinery, food and drink, mineral products and RTV communication devices during this period. In that part of industrial production and ships, however, the ships are seasonally influencing, which is the cycle of production for a year approximately and then depends on production and exports never match. Therefore, they also influence imports, but also exports. Through this significant, significant contribution we also have through this employment I say, demand in the domestic and through that part of demand, total demand. On export, exporting in import performance, actually, a little bit of a little bit of a short-term apology. Only for a very short time that loans to the population have affected such demand, its rise is also very high. Trade products, i.e. food products, cars because they are in the second item in the position of imports. So whether we give up or not, it's now a philosophy or a debate. And also fuel and oil that equally affected imports, but also affected exports. Therefore, the slightly smaller exporting item was during that period. Employment, unemployment, I've already said briefly. The following are prices, I briefly said price stability of 1.9% and the biggest price impact is interesting, so I point out those most significant phenomena, the impact of local self-government through utility prices and water prices. This phenomenon is also characteristic throughout the period, and apparently there are indications that throughout the year it will affect prices. I have already said the same thing through the financial sector, the cap on the growth of 12% banks in the first phase of the quarter seemed to me at the monthly level, later on at the annual level, which caused some slight impacts then on certain phenomena in employment, in the development, lending and allocation of population lending assets, crediting the economy as well as the direct borrowing of banks abroad, I mean the economy sector, which is why companies are first of all. In the course of mild depreciation of the kuna from the euro and the appreciation of the kuna, the constant appreciation of the kuna compared to the dollar. Trade exchange, export 9.9. Imports have already said 10.2, coverage around 47, about 47%. On export, I said what characterized it, and through the first-place imports of metal and metal products the highest percentage, then chemicals and third-place motor vehicles. Therefore, it is not a responsibility but a task structure, but given this structure in the first two phenomena, and the third one is a consumer, obviously it also has a positive impact on employment because it is a negative debt and a balance of payments that we have from it. The cover on the goods immediately says, the coverage on the commodity deficit is growing surplus on services and the surplus as much as it affects in its percentage covers that part. In this period of significant foreign direct investment and ownership investment, banks seem to have been the most significant in this period through the increase in the substance, but there have been other investments. The state budget has increased around 14%, with income and income expenditure growing faster, expenditure being kept under control and now within the limits of half of the year to go. A very significant contribution to social contribution also in revenue as there has been a change in the structure of income and income, expenditure and expenditure, so they have significantly increased impact as well as in expenditures, they have also maintained that impact. And in the end, what is characteristic of the budget can be repeated entirely for the extra budget funds so that I can finally say that it is approximately a diagram of income and expenditure and one of the other has an upward line by making incomes grow faster and by optimizing that this period we end up with an assessment of the one I pointed out in the introduction, and yes, it is also a solid basis for ending the business year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96011	Thank you. HSS representative club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96012	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, at first, it was not clear to me why in these evening hours and in front of so few MPs we are going to discuss the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Croatia, then I actually realized that you are going in these late evenings without cameras just to hide and hide the inability of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, even to implement the programme itself which it has drawn out and on the basis of which it has planned the funds in the budget. Through the last few points, we have heard great pleasure from our colleagues from the south. Unfortunately, by analysing the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Croatia, we cannot share that satisfaction even roughly, and the figures themselves speak about it. Never lived better than today, the secretary of state just said. Some do, but the good part doesn't. And this very budget shows that those regions that are richer in the Republic of Croatia will continue to be richer, and those regions that are poorer and poorer in the Republic of Croatia will be even more poor in the future. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club cannot support this implementation of the Republic of Croatia's budget and cannot support it for the following reasons I will try to elaborate even though it is demotivating at this time in front of the empty Hall of the Croatian Parliament to discuss it. What do we see? From the analysis of the spending of funds, the spending of funds from the budget of the Republic of Croatia then we will see, for example, in the area or portfolio of the Ministry of Finance, that the division of these funds is not based on the real need of citizens, but on political colour and you know who? The mayor of the municipalities. I'm not afraid, you can shoot. So as an example, I point out. The municipality of Gornji Bogicevci, which was occupied by the municipality, was freed in the action "Blash", a yearly 916 thousand kuna was planned, and 382 thousand kuna were executed. District Household aid 975 thousand kuna planned, made 406,000. Municipality of Stara Gradiška 295 planned, carried out 123. And now listen well to me, Municipality of Dragalić planned 42 thousand kuna 659 per year, made 17 thousand 774 kuna. Those who don't know the end then probably won't understand the tragedy of these numbers. The economic structure is equal in all these municipalities. The number of inhabitants is approximately the same in all of these municipalities. Economic development is the same in all these municipalities, however, there is one difference. The difference, for example, is the Municipality of Stara Gradiška, which is planned for 295 thousand kuna, until recently he was the head of the municipality of the Croatian Peasant Party. The municipality of Dragalić, which planned 42 thousand kunas, occupied municipalities, destroyed municipalities, unemployed municipalities, rebuilding municipalities, municipalities that do not have any economic operators, the difference from Okucan to just because there is a head of the Croatian Peasant Party there today, based on the will of citizens who received over 50%. My dear Secretary of State, how is money shared? Is it their citizens' fault that they feel politically different and that's why they should be punished? On what basis and what rates could one municipality receive 42,000 kuna and another million kuna for the same conditions? No, it's pre-punishment and citizens, but the advance act of the captain is incompetent because with an empty budget, the captain has no idea what abilities he can't be capable of and is pre-convicted no matter how capable he may be. Furthermore, this budget shows the policy of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and regional development. Regional development is uneven. My colleague, there are two, four, six, seven of us left, and I am the eighth. Let's see who came out of the hall and wonder why he left the hall. All right. According to the regional development projects, planned 60 million kuna regional development projects, carried out a million 587 thousand kunas or 2.65. Imagine who needed regional projects, and if we want uniform regional development in the Republic of Croatia in order to have a rich and happy country, where should these funds be placed? Silence may be the best answer, but even the worst possible scream on that item is the phenomenon of regionalism and autonomy. I'm not an autonomist, I love my region, but these regions are talking about the justification of this movement, and they're even more talking about the reasons for supporting that movement. Regional development strategy, planned 3 million 325 thousand kuna, execution of zero. Zero. We don't even have a development strategy. Furthermore, we have an item of reconstruction and the development of Vukovar. It planned 40 million kunas, made 10 million kunas and 114 grand. It's not enough to talk about Vukovar with tears in your eyes. For Vukovar it is necessary to do something and I was happy and I said that it is not enough 40 million kuna for the restoration of Vukovar, because if we want the return of Vukovar to Vukovar we must ensure that not only return to the renovated houses and renovated apartments, but we must ensure that they have a place to work, that they have a place to pay and that their youth will not go to Zagreb or stay in Zagreb for those who stayed in Zagreb. And I saw one correction to the wrong quote, and before correcting the wrong quote, take the budget, and check the item, and you'll see if it's true. Go on. This implementation of the budget shows a lack of adequate policy for areas of special state concern. The areas of special state concern themselves speak on their own about the importance that these areas should have for the State. They have difficult management conditions. They have a broken economy, they have broken houses, they have a broken infrastructure. There's almost no life there. And now that we saw in the budget the social economic recovery of the area of special state care was planned 50 million kuna, but only 7 million kuna or 14.18% were spent. Or, let's say, an item of development in the area of special state concern. 22.7 million planned, made 3 million 717 thousand kuna. The development of border areas dear to my colleagues, border areas mostly fall apart from some exceptions but mostly fall within areas of special state concern and these border areas are pathetic to say they are sad but we know those who live there, we know what they are. Ten.6 million kunas were planned. Done a million 324 thousand kuna or 12.50%. This is about the praise we heard today about this policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia leading to a policy of uniform regional development. It's just not true and they show these numbers. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party cannot support the implementation of this budget either because of the ratio of the budget to the Ministry of Agriculture or because of what has not been done and has not been done. It's a pig's nest. Ten million kunas planned. Done 2 million kuna or 20%. And now those who don't know the production and don't know the problem will say it's too much invested because annual pig purchases are organised when the state intervenes and gives part of that price, ransom prices. But is that so? Let's look at the structure of imports so we can see from the structure of imports how much it applies to imports of pork, how much it applies to imports of beef, and in cattle we planned 25 million kuna and spent only 2 million kuna, which is only 8%. So has the ministry realised its strategy for developing pigmeat and bovine animals? Of course not. But who suffers the most? Citizens of those regions whose activity is essential. Promotion of the wood industry, planned 46 million kuna, and made a million or 2.19%. Do we need the wood industry or do we not need the wood industry? I say, given my place of life, yes, the wood industry is very much needed. And it is necessary to develop the wood industry and not only export from the cut board or just cut out of the building, but we need to make a final product and put the final product into Europe. Of course it's not possible with a policy like this. Or, for example, the availability of agricultural land as a fundamental assumption of the development of agriculture and the creation of family holdings as basic units of agricultural production with the task of feeding its own population under the Agriculture Act, which has not been changed. If he wasn't good, then let's change him. But if he hasn't been changed, it means we're good, and then we have to implement the policy that's been set out in that law. However, since the planned two million kunas, nothing has been spent. Or, let's say, a land-cutting item. The same important assumption of the development of agriculture. 10 million 980 thousand planned, spent imagine 500 thousand kuna or 4.55. Those are creepy facts. Food industry, to encourage the food industry. So what do we need the primary agricultural production in Slavonia if we don't have the food industry? It's planned 10 million kunas, done zero. Zero. And what we have and it wants to be closed and the question will be closed days. And at the same time, we are talking about a strategic irrigation system project that I have applauded myself when Prime Minister or Prime Minister Ivo Sanader is in his first speech in the constitution of the government, said that the irrigation system is a strategic project of this government and a strategic programme. We don't have one today either. We don't even have irrigation today. 25 million 910 thousand kunas were made 7 million 975 or 17%. And now we only have promises and nothing else. Let's not ask ourselves what quality food our citizens eat? And to see what quality food our citizens eat we go to the store. Let's look at the shelves and see. With our product, our food, which can almost be classified as organic food by some professional standards, is mainly destroyed because peasants have no markets, have no place to place their product. And we're importing. And now that it is necessary to protect the consumer and examine the quality of food or the planned resources planned to improve food quality studies, they have not been spent either. What does the execution of this budget say? The implementation of the budget says that the government is incompetent, and it is fortunate that there is very little left, so it will no longer be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96013	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96014	Mr. President, don't these numbers hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96015	Numbers?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96016	The ones I quoted. Aren't you in pain?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96017	Pain...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96018	... [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96019	Okay. We're going to correct incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Pero Mlinarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96020	Mr. President! A colleague of mine said exactly that the report contains that part of the unsolicited money. But that money's already been spent, and some aren't yet because they're not finished. 8 million goes to the Croatian House, which will be ready somewhere at the beginning of the 11th month, 10 million has gone to the economic zone, these days it has already been spent, and 2 million have gone to encourage. That's this part of the economy for incentives. And this second part of the 20 million reconstruction is under way I'd like the objects to be destroyed and normally that somewhere at the end of the 11th month that part would end and the funds would be spent. As for this second part, that the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, has promised irrigation normally is normal, but irrigation can't be done in three years. We have a hundred other things he didn't promise, he made them, but you don't know how many delegations all over Europe and Israel that they've recorded one part of these irrigations and so they're doing projects and the irrigation has already started quite far, you see in Vukovar, VUPIK is already a very large area, in Slavonia it's already irrigation almost, the projects are already some done. And as the projects are finished, so the irrigation is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96021	And respected representative Zdravko Sočković rectifier.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96022	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to remind Miss Ljubica Lalić that this very municipality of special state care which she claims that during the term of office of their county assembly we literally kidnapped 100,000 kunas for the construction of a water pipeline in Okucani for which they were not willing to give and because we supported the budget we managed to get it out. I have not seen any items more serious for four years of their term in the county assembly that have helped these municipalities. Another thing I'd like to remind you is when they were the intervention purchases of pigs that they were at their place for six kunas and now nine kunas. and the most important thing in the summer of Mr. 99 when Ms. Lalić and Mr. Tomcic then the President of the Parliament and the HSS supported the protests of peasants at the crossroads in Vrpolje and other intersections where they then garnered from the Croatian government kuna and 30 for the price of grain, so that in 2000 when their government and their minister of agriculture arrived where they were then convincing these same peasants that the good price of grain was EUR 0,90. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96023	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96024	The completely incorrect allegations of fellow Sočković injured Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure. Because my colleague Sočković was not a ransom price and 30 was a kuna and 20, but the incentive was 450 years, and in 2000 the incentive was 750 kuna and the price was not 90 June but also 10 kuna. I understand that some people forget, but when total amnesia comes, it's tragic. And if there's any reason to protest and the way they were, they'd just be much more dangerous right now. I think the time has come in this term that peasants should have done it. And you and I, if we wanted our citizens well, should have led them both you and me, but also in protecting our food capacities. What we need is a system of irrigation that will stimulate vegetables and we'll have no place to sell those vegetables or we'll have it where to dry. So worry about what you're doing and where you're going.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96025	Comrade Lalić, you have now said yourself in the introduction that you are correcting the incorrect claims made by MP Sočković. ... So you can't correct incorrect claims under the rules of procedure. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So how do you know he's speaking incorrectly? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's why it's a correction to an incorrect quote, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You know, you're written. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Wait a minute. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And respected representative Nevenka Majdenic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96026	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, Commissioner Lalić has indeed provided incorrect information. One of these is that this government does not run a policy of uniform regional development, which is completely incorrect. And Lalić deliberately misreads the data, the financial data from this half-yearly report or does not know. The achievement of the budget in six months certainly cannot be seen compared to the plan, so what has been achieved in six months to watch how long it takes for the whole year. It is certain that you need to take care of this because in the first six months otherwise, the policy of plans is being conducted and in the other six months it is being realized. But these data and macroeconomic indicators that you need to take into account, which are extremely positive and everybody admits them, you need to know that this budget will ultimately be realized for 2007. So I repeat that you're deliberately misreading this data cheaply and deliberately.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96027	Okay. We've got more damage to our rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96028	Well, Article 209 was re-injured. Oh, I can let my colleagues know I can't read the board, I can let that happen. However, you do the greatest injustice to that region from which you come by closing your eyes in front of the truth. For years, here's four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96029	Please don't. It's not a correction, it's not a breach of the rules of procedure. You have made one claim that regional development has been neglected, that a policy that does not take care of regional development is being conducted, a colleague disproves it. You can't comment and deny these claims under this institute right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96030	No, I mean, four years from exactly the same colleague I've heard that by the end of the year, a budget will be made at a hundred percent rate and it won't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96031	You can't, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96032	All right, Mr. President. I apologize for having dared to speak to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96033	Who would deny you? Would I deny you speaking? Just a speech at a certain time about a particular topic under a particular institute. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96034	Honorable President, Secretary of State, Honorable Mr. Representatives. Well, I was just about to say that Ljubica gave a great speech. Regionalism, local autonomy sure as hell don't think the same thing, but I'm signing the rest. But let's let it go now. For the first six months, we've either spent 51.5 billion kuna in the state budget. What interests me a little bit more is that we're in charge of 13.3 billion kuna in 2007 or we're going to have to be in debt by the end of the year, but also in 2007, either we are or we're going to return 9 billion 973 million kunas of various loans, loans, etc. In one word, it's free to say every 10 kuna goes to pay off the loan. But before I say anything more about it, let's see where the 8th constituency is now, the County of Istria and the Primorje-Goranska? Istria. Planned in 2007 according to all these items. 9 capital projects, 236.6 million kuna. It's a $29.9 million execution index. So it came together from these 236 million kunas from the State budget 70,8 million kunas, and like this: share in the capital of the company... Istra 48 million kuna, 29%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only 120 thousand kunas were planned to upgrade the primary school in Vrban. The construction of a sports hall in Pula was planned for 6 million kuna. Furio rightly protestes, no money has arrived. Construction of a sports hall in Rovinj 15 million kunas planned even though the state on profit tax took 30 to 40 million kunas nothing arrived. The regular activity of the University of Pula is 13 million kunas. Capital investment, the construction of the University of Pula came 7 million kunas, it's fine, of 9.2 million kunas planned. A home for adults in Motovun of a million 300 thousand kunas came a million 295%, 99.62% execution. It means everything. From, for Pula General Hospital planned 13 million kunas arrived 188 thousand kunas and 84 limes and 76, pardon 84 kunas and 76 limes or exactly 25 thousand euro. The regional development of the Istrian County planned to come in a million kunas, nothing arrived. I said 29.93% execution. The coastal-goran county may have gone a little better. Execution 41.85%. Of the planned 313 million kunas, 131 million kuna arrived. Clear for regional development as well as in Istria zero kuna. The clinic for orthopedics in Lovran 48.48% of the 9.8 million kuna arrived 4.7 million kuna. The KBC River has reached 2.3 million kunas of 30 million kunas planned. The home for children "Ivana Brlic Mažuranić" in Lovran of 300 thousand kuna arrived all 300 thousand kuna. For capital investment in the construction of the University of Rijeka of 24.4 million kuna arrived 8.2 million kuna. Then, for the construction of a sports hall in Bakr of 5 million kuna, 633 thousand kuna arrived, 12.47%. Supporting the port of Rivers and so on but not reading everything now. Most of the execution index is 41.8%. Istra 29.93%. Primorje-Goran County 131 million kuna. It's an Istrian 70 million kuna. The conclusion would mean that the space or that someone forgot about it. Over 10 billion kuna goes from Istria to the state budget. Since tax revenues, I don't know once again which time today has 550 million kuna. And after the state took her profits and left her income Istria is even more at a loss for another 100 million kuna. But I'm going to talk a little bit more about repaying loans. Can Croatia in any way avoid debt slavery? I'm almost certain, it won't be long, two three years, but regardless of what Prime Minister Sanader said or someone else will come up next that we will have to sell Croatia's electricity, because here I quote just one statement from Governor Rohatinski: "2007. is charged EUR 7.2 billion in principal plus EUR 580 million in interest." That's EUR 7.8 billion. That's what you gentlemen know about 12 billion dollars. That's 20% of the gross social product for 2007. By the end of 2007, if it was more than 29 billion at the end of the 6th month, it would be at least 31 billion kuna. That's, I don't know, about 40 billion dollars. The truth is he's growing slower than 2006. It has grown at a rate of 13.5% since 2006. Now it's growing at an rate of 11.5%. The question is, how long are we going to be in five years? I'm afraid it might exceed $45 billion, but the EUR is over $60 billion. And that wouldn't be dramatic, under quotes, although it would be terrible if we didn't have to pay back this period of five years if we were to return 7.8 billion euros this year. I'm talking about government debt, businesses, banks, brother to brother about EUR 30 to 35 billion, and that's over EUR 40 billion again, and we'll still be in charge of those like I said 40 or 45 billion. And now what do we do? He learns by me as soon as possible in the European Union, the monetary union. There's no other way to get our heads together, and clearly, we need to start working. The Croatian growth of that GDP this year is 6.6% for the first nine months. Unexpectedly large. Let's play what's in some parts of Istria is over 11% for 3.4 years but that doesn't matter now and I think we need to do some more things. What do we have? We have imports, exporting you now speaking to Istria unlike the state covering about 85%. Zagreb has only 33%. Primor-Goran County 45%. We have twice as much export as the Primorje-Goran County, which has 100,000 inhabitants. But what is the fundamental problem? We have 21 billion dollars in import. That's what we have to count on, like, $11 billion we have to secure for a debt return a year. So that's about 32 billion. We're exporting $10.5 billion of goods. We're paying off $12 billion means debts or 11 doesn't matter. We're receiving 7 to 8 billion loans from the other side. The revenues from tourism are about 7 billion, I don't know, dollars. We've got one billion dollars on our hands. We have a billion dollars of transportation and so on, ships, planes and so forth, vehicles. We have a billion dollars from privatisation. This year maybe $3 billion and we gentlemen have one problem. How does this just balance now and when will this problem arise, or when it will escalate? So that's where we're supposed to start. This year, as I said, there's still a part of a more rigorous centralization compared to the past, at least as far as Istria is concerned. I said Istria gives 10 million kuna. We keep 550 million kunas autonomously through the tax. We put more into the state budget this year, 100 million kuna "vis a vis" of the profit tax compared to last year. I mentioned that only Rovinj loses these, from profit we have nothing left, loses 30 to 40 million kuna. There was a deal that he would get 15 million kuna through the hall. He didn't get anything for the first six months. The truth is out of those 10 billion kunas that Istria is putting into the budget whatever Mr. Zuzul thinks is coming back, come on. Paid for by the police, paid, paid for by the administration, for some pensions, but 4 and a half percent of the population is out of 10% of the budget. And that's why we stand for that decentralisation, local autonomy that everyone on their own manages their own. It's a clear solidarity with others, but that relationship needs to be changed. Let's move on. From VAT, the state budget has revenueted or 39 billion kuna is planned. We're pushing to cut to food, from 22% to 10%. It's also interesting that over 60, maybe 70, maybe more than one percent of the budget goes to social categories only. For example. For wages, well it's not a social category but through such a form we can kind of observe is 19.2 billion kuna plus 3 billion kuna contributions, so that's over 22 billion. For material expenditures, almost 8 billion. For expenditure on energy 2 billion. Subsidies, 5.8 billion farms, shipbuilding, which I know what not. Return credit said before nine, so many billion kunas. He's going to health care for 17 billion kunas for pensions over 30 billion kunas. Compensation for citizens, households over 13 billion kunas. Donations over 2 billion kuna, etc. From the budget we may be left with about 10 billion kuna, if counting here extra budget functions, expenses for some direct, direct development, real development, for investments, roads, water, I don't know the halls, this etc. We have a country together. No one's satisfied. There is no social justice if 90% of these expenditures go for the said fees. So again, the question is what is the best social policy. I say full-time policy. It's also the best retirement policy. Not because pensioners may have more, but if they have nothing else to worry about their children who will have such a job. And finally, it's also the best clear policy for young people because there's no greater capital than when those kids work. Pensions are modest, but we advocate clearly that the pensioners of the old-new. This requires the provision of 600 million kuna in the state budget. I don't think it's a big effort, that it should be done. We probably won't do it until this Parliament's break, this 12th month. But that's what the government needs to come from. What am I going to do here? That's 2 billion kuna for concessions, or a billion 980 and some billion kuna. Hotel houses, that's what I was talking about before, the agricultural combinations use millions of acres of so-called. tourism or agricultural land and, as I know, such is the case at least in Istria, I am sure in the Primorje-Gorski County, along the Adriatic coast, and houses do not pay anyone a single kuna fee. And there's a question of where it is. Only in Poreč is there about 2,000 hectares we managed to challenge Agrokor, which would say Todorovic, Blue Lagoon, Riviera, TDR in Vrsar. To no one else, they did not register well in land books using hundreds of acres of tourist land in camps from Tar Vabriga I do not know until Coversada and pay no one anything. And it just needs to be changed. It's just insulting. Why wouldn't one of you have such a benefit that one such camp could use and not pay anyone anything? It's an interesting item of donation, so let's say these nonprofit organizations, I see they get 714 million kunas. I don't know how many political parties around here maybe 70 million kunas get out of the budget. Non-profit organizations receive 714 million kunas. Subsidies to banks still, watch out all the banks we sold, but still to the banks to which we sold our banks get subsidies based on 428 million kuna per year. But at least it's good that these banks don't end up in bankruptcy anymore. Otherwise, in 2006, the shipbuilding pulled 4.2 billion kuna. It's an 0 kuna oil mine. When we talk about concessions, I also think about selling agricultural land. And here again I will express my dissatisfaction that the Istrians 1 square have to pay 10 to 100 times more expensive than is paid elsewhere in Croatia. And that's discrimination for me a couple of excellences. Otherwise, for the period 1.1 to 30.6.2007, this is the basis of the planned 19.4 million kuna 10.1 million kuna. I'm afraid that's how much they raised those tenors or orchestras, I don't know, in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, etc. The conversion, about it some other time. Vote or not for this report? It's common. If you don't vote for the budget, it's clear you don't vote for execution either, and that's how we're gonna handle it. But now it's the same thing, it doesn't matter, it's irrelevant. It is something else, that this document, meaning this budget as well as the budget of the Republic of Croatia, weighs 108 plus about 10 billion kuna with these extra budget funds that we execute, that we adopt it with 39 MPs. In theory, we can, that the Ladišce Municipality can't make its budget without the supremacy of the majority. And the point of this redistribution is that it's certainly political at this point and it's not just.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96035	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, honourable representative Krunoslav Markovnović
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96036	Mr. President, so many incorrect allegations, it's hard to make it right. Because I think a lot has gone beyond this subject. But one of the allegations that my colleague said is that Istra is being neglected and that is to imagine the conclusion based on a half-yearly report. Because Mr. Cain obviously understands the budget as an hourglass, where in the same time units, the same sand leaks out. Which is absolutely far from reality. I'll tell you, my city is currently a major construction site. Because in the second part of the year we do much more than in the first part, because now the flow of funds is much higher. That's why I'm very, very proud of him for agreeing with his colleague, so you both don't really know what's going on with the budget. Secondly, a colleague says the most rigid centralization this year, which is absolutely not true. My colleague Caine, centralization is all about centralization, and you seem to have no idea what's behind it, and there are obligations behind centralization. Here are only 30 cities in Croatia took over schooling, and many others could, we have many cities in Croatia. Why? Because they know that it's simply cheaper for them to smuggle across the county or through the state or invest directly where they should invest.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96037	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96038	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, in my debate, I will only limit myself to one small segment relating to sport, which refers to 450 thousand active athletes and so many more active recreationals, whose indicators here say that the situation in Croatian sport is disastrous despite the new law. What's this about? Croatia's anti-doping agency in sport was founded in February with six months of delays, but has not yet come to life. Up to 777 thousand kunas that were to be spent on the work of this agency have been spent to date less than 90, or about 11%, which means that its work is practically zero. As much as it takes to speak today's "Free Dalmatia" article, which discusses the discovery of "Free Dalmatia" journalists who have discovered drug dealers of banned steroids that cause heart attacks, arteriosclerosis, manic states, psychosis and musculatur abnormalities. Even though as a stimulant, a medicine for breast cancer was sold. These days we've heard about a 12-year-old boy who died, a football player who died for unconfirmed reasons. Probably also similar problems related to the taking of unauthorized funds, and our agency is not working, and our minister boasts that he has made great progress in Croatian sport. Furthermore, the national sport programme is also one of the items of this budget that was to be adopted by March this year, unfortunately it is not available until today, so we are already about 7 months late. Out of the 370,000 kuna provided for in this item, an entire thousand and 800 kuna were spent, or half of the projected funds. A national sports council was to be established in December of last year, not until today, means 10 months late. It should have brought a complete programme for the development of Croatian sport. The projected funds of 150,000 kuna, spent of course nothing, since there is no national council. For the most important item, which was also the biggest dispute in the debates on the Sport Act, which is the reshaping of sports clubs, associations in professional clubs, the regulation was passed in January also with 6 months late, but the Commission for the Implementation of this Regulation is not present and the recasting is not practically implemented. Of the 250,000 kuna spent zero. I'm not going to talk about a whole series of other acts that are related to the Sport Act, because that's not the subject of the budget, I'm going to say only one that is very much connected to the budget, and that's the implementing regulation on the collection of demand and the public giving of non-professional club debtors. We here during the debate on sports talked about 750 million kuna debt clubs in the name of various state contributions. In the debate, almost so many unsolicited debts were mentioned which were simply not recorded in all these indicators. However, because of this regulation that has not been passed so far, it should have been passed within a month of the law being passed, so with about 15 months of delay, there is no indication when it will be passed. You can see another indicator of the situation in Croatian sports. I would also like to say that only three other items mentioned in this budget, i.e. in this act on the implementation of the budget, were to be implemented at least partially and not implemented with a single lip. It is about financial support for children with perspective athletes, zero kunas until today's execution, that is, six months from now. Also promoting gender equality in zero kuna sport, incentives to develop sport on the islands of zero kuna. I also talked about these programmes, and in my debate on budgeting, I asked the amendments to increase these items, obviously they were only declared in the budget, it is seen from the implementation that it is indeed so. I suppose if this set were to remain, or this government, that next year they wouldn't be in the budget at all, but I hope that in November, or I'm sure we'll change that in November, so these items will change in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96039	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96040	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here I would just briefly actually finally look back on these, sorry that there is no distinguished representative Lalic. When it comes to decentralisation of income tax and profit tax, then it is necessary to take into account and to know that these items in the budget are not the budgets of those local units, but they get part of the income tax and part of the income they actually belong to the force they have in the area, the economic power. So it's certainly not true that they're being cut off, especially I would say, and this is especially true in all places, all the municipalities and all the cities in the area of Slavonia, etc. who in this sense got this decentralisation more. What I would really just point out and underline in the end, so for the first time in the first six months, that the borrowing in the first six months of one year was less than the payments, we paid off more and we didn't need to be more in debt than less. So the expenditure on financial assets and loans were 3.6 billion kuna, and the debt in the first six months was 3 billion and 100 million kuna. So the difference is nothing more than the surplus that was achieved in the first six months of this year which confirms the actual consolidation and bringing public finances to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96041	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with debate on the Proposal for a decision to elect judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, Report on the state and operation of penitentiary offices, prisons and educational institutions for 2006 etc. Twelve o'clock vote. Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 for the first half of 2007. I am voting on the following conclusion: The said report is accepted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 84 votes and 31 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96045	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 57(1), subparagraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in relation to Article 6 The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament unanimously submits to the Croatian Assembly a proposal for a decision to elect five judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which was established at the meeting on 4 October 2007, and proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the selection of five judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia at the 27th session. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Assembly a proposal for a list of candidates entering a narrow election for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 9(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, On 6 June 2007, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Constitutional Court, informed the Croatian Parliament that on 7 December 2007, the term of office expires for the judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and this: to the professor Dr. Smiljka Sokol, Marijan Hranjski, Ivana Mrkonjic, Vica Vukojevic, professor of Dr. Petar Klaric, Emilija Raic, professor of Dr. Jasni Omejec, Master Ivan Matija. At its meeting on 13 July 2007, the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision on the selection of three judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and this: Dr Marko Babić, Snježana Bagic, Professor Jasna Omejec. It is necessary to select five more judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia by 7 December 2007 for the Constitutional Court to continue to act in full. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 6(1) The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the procedure for the candidate of the Constitutional Court judges and the proposal for elections of the Croatian Parliament is carried out by the Board of the Croatian Parliament responsible for the Constitution. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament referred in accordance with Article 6. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia calls for judicial institutions, law schools, legal chamber, legal associations, political parties, other legal persons and individuals to propose candidates for the selection of five judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The call was issued in "The People's Journal", number 80 from 2007. The candidates arrived on time: Branka Čižmeka, master of Miljenko Chunija, Erkole Golja, doctor Mario Jelusic, master Mirjana Juric, Dunja Kalođera, Mirko Klinžić, master Antonija Kovacic, Tonči Majca, Djordje Marović, Orchidja Martinović, Ivan Matija, Zoran Piculja, Aldo Radolović, Milka Savić, Mladen Turkalj, Slavko Zadnik. The Committee found that all candidates met the conditions for selecting the Constitutional Court judge established by the Constitution and the Constitutional Law and accepted the applications. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the competent committee conducts a public conversation with any candidate who fulfils the conditions for a choice for Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of the data collected and the results of the talks, it shall draw up a list of candidates entering a narrow election for the judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, with the fact that the list of candidates normally contains more candidates than the number of judges of the Constitutional Court to be elected. The board invited me to a public interview with all the candidates. During the public conversation, members of the board referred to the candidates questions on the basis of which they gained the impression of candidates as professionals and persons. In view of the fact that 15 of the 17 candidates participated in the previous procedure for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, members of the Committee concluded that during the public talks they did not repeat these candidates' questions from the previous discussion but that their answers should also be taken into account on the occasion of this decision on candidates entering a narrow election for judges of the Constitutional Court. After the talks, the board found that it proposed to the Croatian Parliament a list of candidates entering the narrow election for judges of the Constitutional Court, to which seven candidates were ranked according to the number of votes received. When setting out the proposal for a list of candidates entering the short election for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee took into account the observed excellence highlighted in the résumé of each candidate and the public conversation impression. It also took into account the respect of the constitutional provision on gender equality and the participation of a number of women in the Constitutional Court and the needs of the Constitutional Court for experts in certain areas after the end of the term of office of eight judges of the Constitutional Court. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court also gives an explanation showing why it gave individual candidates priority over the other candidates. So we have established a list, a narrow list of seven candidates: Ivan Matija, Zoran Pičula, Mirko Klinžić, Mirjana Juric, Antonija Kovačić, Aldo Radolović and Mario Jelusic. For Ivan Matija, the current Constitutional Court judge, the committee was defined for his actions as judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. He affirmed himself as a judge already, his continuous professional training during work experience and a positive impression from a public conversation. For Zoran Piculjana, current Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Board of Management, the Committee has been defined for its long-standing experience in public law and diplomatic experience and the positive impression from the talks. For Mirko Klinzic, the current President of the Municipal Court in Zagreb, the Committee has been defined because of its long-standing experience as a judge, specialist and civil and criminal law, its public action and the positive impression of the talks. For Mirjana Juričić, the current judge of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee was defined for its professional action in the administrative field and for the positive impression from the public conversation. For Antonija Kovacic, the current judge of the High Court of Violent Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee was defined because of its action as a judge, continuous professional training during the work experience and positive impression from the talks. For Professor Ald Radolovic, the Committee was defined for its impressive résumé, broad education and interest, professional and public action and a positive impression from the talks. For Marija Jelusic, the Committee was defined on the basis of its scientific and professional action as a professor at the Department of Constitutional Law of the Faculty of Law and its public action. In addition to its proposal, the Committee shall provide the CVs of all candidates who meet the conditions for the selection of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and complete documentation. We point out that the procedure for running and proposing elections for the Constitutional Court judges was conducted completely transparently and the committee's meetings and public talks were attended by representatives of the OSCE, GONG and the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96046	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. U.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s club, the respected representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96047	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It is not that we are too much about this matter this morning, but no matter how important it is, this is a unique opportunity where we representatives of the Croatian Parliament meet with ourselves. There's no government between us and what we do, there's no one else between us. There are only fundamental constitutional values, there are only fundamental social values, there are only basic professional values and we are compared to them. Therefore, when we are discussing and deciding on this subject today, we are actually discussing ourselves and showing what we are, how far we have reached and to what extent we are able to respond to such a challenge as the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. The SDSS Club had hoped that after so long among the judges of the Constitutional Court, a member of the national minority would be elected or elected in the election of the Constitutional Court. Not because this court could not function without it or its own, not because it is a condition under which it would show its openness but because it should be a symbolic place, a symbolic indicator that from the highest point of view the space of integration of members of national minorities into a judicial system where and according to the findings of the Ministry of Justice both 2005, 2006 and 2007 has far below the percentage of their share in society. Secondly, they thought that at least symbolically in the Constitutional Court and in his work he would enter a problem that was related to members of national minorities, with their lives, with their experience in the past sixteen years, but that did not happen but was precisely the reason why it did not happen. The candidate who was supported by this committee in the first round, who received a significant number of votes from those who were in the hall today, did not pass because someone decided to look into her writings before the Constitutional Court. I don't know if someone committed a violation, I don't know if it's legal or legal, but I know it didn't happen with any other candidate or candidate for the Constitutional Court. I also know that it did not happen with any member of the Constitutional Court in the current composition but it did happen with candidate Mrs. Milko Savic, not because she wanted it to happen, not because she has a position expressed in statements by her clients and clients, but because there is indeed a phenomenon that we as a party with this government and the International Community are dealing with, and this is a question of former tenant rights holders. How and under what conditions these people were expelled from their apartments, and under what conditions they lost their apartments, and under what conditions they could no longer return to their apartments. If these people are using terms that we don't want to hear, which aren't fixed, which don't belong to us, that's not why the candidate should be pushed under the rug. But since that is the case, when Mrs Savic is not from the professional, ethical or any other side, she has challenged and questioned but on one politically sensitive side, then ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, let's be fair to ourselves and let's look at and apply all the other criteria that this home needs to apply to all the other candidates and candidates. Did someone who was prominent in the early 1990s in the privatisation process, which to this day burdens this country, its people, its citizens, can sit in the Constitutional Court. I don't think so, but sit down. So, we are discussing here the mistakes of the heavy, large ones in terms of the privatisation process, but of course our credibility cannot be confirmed to ask ourselves whether anyone sitting in the Constitutional Court and who was bestowing in this process can sit in it. We're not going to do that, but of course we want to question candidate Milka Savik, given who they are and who her clients are and what their troubles are. Similarly, we will not ask ourselves what is wrong with the members of the Constitutional Court, which the international and domestic public brings into the context of war and war crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we will not do. But that's why we're going to ask what's wrong with candidate Milko Savik and her clients. Do they have the right to come before the Constitutional Court with their difficulties and their problems. Ladies and gentlemen, it's good in some way that Mrs. Milka Savik didn't get where she was headed. And where we hoped he'd come. Because it would turn out to be another party-supported staff like there are in the Constitutional Court and what are among the candidates we're going to vote on today. Which other references do not have except that they have their own party and their comrades in a party that will support them. Who didn't stand out in anything else. Neither in their work nor in their years of employment in an attorney's office or anything else, but they are because the Constitutional Court is understood as the place where those to be fostered should be fostered. So then I wonder what the Constitutional Court is for us at the SDSS Club? So you can send in those who are hatched on a particular type of politics? That is why it should be sent to those who should be cared for at a given time because a party should be taken care of or a party. Or the Constitutional Court really needs to be a place where we choose the best people. And how difficult it was to choose the best people shows the absurdity of choice and the cycle around the elections in which one professor of the university with international affirmation, with an international reputation, could not or almost passed by candidates with a highly dubious working and other biography. No thanks to the government, not thanks to the public of ladies and gentlemen, but thanks to us, our understanding of things, our seeing things and our position on it. Now we have among candidates those who have passed, for whom according to the public talk of the wolf, of course there was not so much in the media, nor did the speakers of different groups and interests report on it. The wolf's corrupt, corrupt reference. They are here and they are among the serious candidates for members of the Constitutional Court. We will, of course, do for our agreement, for some peace between us, because everyone should somehow foster someone of our own, we will not question it. It's not scandalous when a candidate for the Constitutional Court can't answer what would happen to an abortion? Well, if it's his world view that he's against abortion, let him say it. If it's a beacon to allow an abortion, then let him say it. But he can't be as honest and buried as they say in our people and not say any of it. Because it disqualifies him as a possible candidate for the Constitutional Court of Ladies and Gentlemen. Because the Constitutional Court must decide, it must adhere to pro et contra. And it can't be between. Neither can the Constitutional Judges be amongst themselves. Of course, this is a very serious candidate for the Constitutional Court. And probably a lot of people will raise their hands here for him. There are other ladies and gentlemen, but people have the right to be protected from their ambitions. People have the right to be protected from what their biological components are. No matter how who and what they came up with. In other people's privacy and privacy, we won't look at as much as she does in her own way. But we can't afford it here. But also when it comes to choice, we should take care of it when we support it. The second thing is whether we want the Constitutional Court and members of the Constitutional Court not even on such a remote mechanism to be managed because they're pretty close to us here. Or we really want people who will be able to comply with the highest principles and highest values to decide on the most sensitive issues and final issues of the values of the Constitution to which we have sworn. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS Club in the candidates that our esteemed chairman of the Constitution Committee Mr. Bosnjakovic read does not see from perhaps one or two, one or two of those he could support. If we manage what are the values for which, after a few generations of elections for the Constitutional Court, we might already be able to train ourselves enough to start applying them. But everyone would have to give up something. Of course, we will not give up Mrs. Savik because of what she experienced in public. We will not give up even because she took the obligation to deal with people that others did not want to do. Not even from the position of the Constitutional Court, because it took years for these files to come to a resolution, for someone to look at them. Someone to give some kind of an answer. But I certainly don't have the illusion that after this, we're going to change something important. I certainly have no illusions that the practice in which in most cases in the Constitutional Court is not achieved by those who really stand out in their profession. Indeed, they point out by contributing to judicial practice and judicial theory in the Republic of Croatia and in international frameworks. It is those who, in different aspects and by different criteria of the party or which other belongings reach there. If Mrs. Savic hadn't met any of these criteria, I would have liked to have discussed it. That it's been discussed how professional it is, how not. This is how it would be said to be liquidated by a brief procedure in a sensitive question for us that is certainly not something that should be qualified or disqualified for this job. But if that's the way it is and we're already going in that direction, I just want to call once more to think about whether we have any of these seven candidates, do we have among those sitting in the Constitutional Court, do we have among those we have really proposed people who are worthy of that support? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96048	Thank you. Correction of the alleged, respected representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96049	Mr. President, I am so excited, and I am afraid to speak after this presentation because you only see this last sentence that Mrs. Milka Savik, I quote, is liquidated by a brief procedure.". It's a sentence from the time of that great mustache that ruled the world, and we know as the great mustaches ruled the world as freedom was. Then, the gentleman said we don't want the Constitutional Court to be in remote control, regardless of what's near us. You, Mr. President, should have reacted because he insulted the Constitutional Court. And I personally think that we must all be Milka Savik because this lady was talking about ethnic cleansing in Croatia. I can tell you that in my little alley where I was a tenant in '91. 14 families cleaned up in one night. One of the families became Deputy Director-General of the Agricultural Combined Belgrade on the second day, and it was later revealed that he was Colonel UDBA. And that's why I want us all to be Milka Savik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96050	Club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96051	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96052	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96053	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to correct only one incorrect quote from Mr. Pupovac, where he claimed that according to public conversation some candidates participated in corruption affairs. I don't think that's true, but it is true that some candidates who are spoken of here today have been publicly placed in the service of the rebel Serbs in the destruction of the young Croatian state. That's true and that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96054	Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go, the HSLS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96055	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. He's right. He's right. When he says this is a story about us. And I think we should have political, civil courage and face those attitudes, arguments that we may not like at first sight. I say, the story of us, of our relations, of our interests, of our political culture. And I was very unsatisfactory, almost unhappy when in July of the month there was an obstruction of actually the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. It's politics, maybe it's legitimate. Every club, every single individual has the right and to articulate his own interest, even in a way to obstruct. Even though I said then and today I'm going to repeat that moment for obstruction was not at all favourable. It was known that in September and October only another session of the Croatian Parliament would be held. And indeed this mathematics and possible dispersion of voices, the possible obstruction threatened the danger of no one being elected and of us entering elections without a complete constitutional court. This happened if I wasn't wrong in Ukraine, so the Council of Europe had to delegate its judges and Ukraine a few years ago, foreign judges followed the validity of the constitutionality of the elections. I say I protested against this obstruction, or I protested against the policy attitudes towards institutions. Yesterday we also talked about exactly all the problems we face in this transition Croatia. And that's exactly how institutions have no reputation. And respect should be built patiently. It is not created overnight, it is not created by decrees, but by exactly persistent political work, goodwill and implementation of indeed all those values that belong to civil democracy. And it certainly doesn't need to be surprised when there's no success. But, I say, it's up to us, it's up to us, by our actions, to create an ambience where institutions will really be worth it. And it is also this obstruction and many previous debates, including today's start of the debate that shows that the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court is a couple of excellence political matters. That's what I said in '99. Years, '99. A year. I've said it again, and I don't know it in April this year and in July, and here I am now repeating it. And we have to face it. We can't, we can't, or think that here when, and since really between us and this election there's no one else that's not in the game of politics, that's not in the game of certain interests. You see, all choices are important. It's always the ones that come, these... They're always, they're actually the most important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because in some ways they determine, these choices today that we are going to make or not do in some way are the basis for designing the future of such an important institution. The criteria offered last time by Letica were such made are important, are very, are only one of the criteria, gender, professional, recontinuity criteria, regional criteria, ethnic criteria. That's all there is to it. But there's something else. This is the same topic that we have to open here and we have to give responsibility not only before, and in front of the Croatian public, but I think the indications are much broader than we actually want from the court. So do we have a vision of what this court will actually do in the next term of 2007 to 2015. Do we have a vision? Do we know what's waiting for us on that road, so what exactly is waiting for those judges? Well, we are aware that it will be in this particular term of 2007/2015. In fact, be the main problem of how to implement here the gains of the European, European Union's rights to our internal situation? If we are aware of this, then we must be aware that the paradigms of the choice of judges and those who will sit inside must be changed. It can no longer be seven Federations, old people or older people who in some way brought their age to an end more or less and now in some way to be an honorary function. No, this is a time of mobility, a time of creative people and people who really can and who understand what is actually happening somewhere else that needs to be implemented here. So we have to answer to someone else's complexity with our complexity and that's a fundamental problem. And that's exactly why these references are important people who, by no means, are honor but can't be only honor but actually have to do what's called there, that's that contactability and the ability to know, understand, monitor, participate, actively participate and apply it here. Not enough domestic knowledge. It's not enough. And that's why, on behalf of the bench, he would have just appealed to that criterion, too, if that criterion had to be very important. To raise my hand and remember when there was a debate whether a colleague of the Krapac or a colleague... when I said to vote on his conscience, to actually keep in mind these particular elements. These elements that are really important or how at least, maybe I'm wrong, but at least that's how I see the future of this court, and certainly not as some space, some place where we don't know how to foster people who tell reasons that are certainly not, I can't answer those tasks that are waiting for us in the future. And in that very sense today, if there was a vote, I would also appeal to my colleagues to really take care of the inland and that criterion. The same thing, just for the end of it I have to say. You can see that nothing between July and September, or October, has dramatically happened, that more or less these same people appeared and that no matter how much we insisted on some transparency, public, length, quantity is not every time a quality. You know, it doesn't go beyond that it's gonna necessarily cross over that something important has changed in the meantime. I'm really saying I hope today there won't be any obstructions as it happened in July and when I say again, we faced each other again and forced the board to do a very delicate job except we allowed them to do it twice under pressure. We'd only be under pressure once, this is how counterpart Bosnjakovic and his board actually came under pressure twice from all these interests of political, private and further, twice. So to say nothing, those arguments of the July month obstruction have brought us once again and again to repeat these exact words that we must in some way take on our political responsibility, because right here we are sitting as representatives of citizens who still have to make the best decisions, and I think it is possible and instead of doing the ceremony of these elections, because that is a solemn moment, we are actually using every opportunity for the scandal and this is already happening to us on a continuous basis, and this is not good, and it is precisely showing that our transition continues to be burdened with this political element and that this relapse of the past is not going to get rid of it. So the HSLS club will vote on its conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96056	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96057	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect to claim that by choosing constitutional judges we represent our individual or some personal interests. So if that was an insult to the Constitutional Court before, then this is an insult to our agents. I claim that I, and I suppose all of my colleagues, are choosing constitutional judges according to the principle of general good and service to the Croatian state. And other incorrect allegations that they should work creatively. I expect the constitutional judges to work exclusively and consistently apply the Croatian Constitution, Croatian laws and Croatian regulations and nothing more and nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96058	HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96059	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We need to agree here today when we talk about the proposal for a decision to elect five judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, whether it is more important for us to satisfy the form or content. If it is important for us to satisfy the form then the matter is simple, it should be chosen from the five judges of the Constitutional Court and then we have formally made that the Constitutional Court has full composition as provided for by the Constitution and the Constitutional Law for the Constitutional Court. But I think the fundamental point is that we need to be, more and more fit the content, and the content is that there has to be a lot to change and a full reform of the functioning of the rule of law, a judicial system to bring the rule of law to life. We need to be aware that Article 128 is. The Constitution is precisely part of the work and jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, all of which are large issues, about deciding on the consent of the law with the Constitution, other regulations and all that the Constitutional Court is doing, and we know that this jurisdiction is constantly increasing. Unfortunately, we have witnessed that from the level of the lower courts to the Constitutional Court which does not belong to the court as such, but belongs to this part of the judiciary, we have never been able to make the most significant part of what we would do and where we respond to the content, which is that the main criteria for selecting judges at all levels, and in particular the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court are the criteria of expertise, professionalism, honesty and patriotism. There have been many situations in the election of former judges of the Constitutional Court, and these criteria have not been respected. However, there have always been other standards, party arrangements, so party standards, this key, that key, this similarity, that similarity, and it's been speculated whether the Constitutional Court is now left or the Constitutional Court is right. The Constitutional Court shall not be left or right, the Constitutional Court shall be the Constitutional Court and shall apply Article 128. The Constitution and constitutional law and everything else. You see where all this is going to lead to a variety of debates, a variety of speculations, and now we're going into reform, we should start reforming the judiciary that the institutions of the rule of law are functioning, that the "Maeostro" action is not a surprise, but the regular activity of the competent authorities of prosecution and all others, and we're coming back again that the question of choosing these five judges is essentially a matter of form, because we have to do so in order for the Constitutional Court as such to have full composition, meaning 13 judges. And as long as it is about the judiciary, the choice of judges at any level has been discussed from the aspect of the form possible various decisions of the Constitutional Court such as that decision where they totally disproved small shareholders and nobody raised their voice to that effect. And how is that possible? It is possible because, in the Constitutional Court, people who had neither the criteria of professionalism nor the criteria of honesty nor the criteria of patriotism came to the Constitutional Court. And then it is possible that the Constitutional Court acts as such as an extended hand of politics. This is the worst thing that can happen in a country that the Constitutional Court acts as an extended hand of politics and that the Constitutional Court is not independent and that the Constitutional Court is not what we all want to be like all the other courts. So, these reluctances whether or not they should be the representative of this minority, those minorities, I don't think we can talk about these things in courts and constitutional courts. We can only talk about basic criteria, which is expertise, professionalism, honesty and patriotism. This is the only criterion and the only criterion where we can restore trust and Croatian citizens to the functioning of all institutions, to the entire legal system of this country, because we are witnessing ourselves that citizens are rightly dissatisfied, that we have courts that are buried with over a million and some items, to stick to drawers and all other situations. So let's make a normal choice and thus recruit and for the Constitutional Court expertise, professionalism, honesty, patriotism. We go along that level, let young people come to municipal courts, county according to these standards. And then that's how the whole climate changes. And we put into office what we have to put in place, and the institutions of the rule of law mean we are living in action, the principle of rule of law, and we are allowing all Croatian citizens to simply exercise their rights and their interests. As long as we are in shape, and today we seem to be dealing with, above all, form, this situation in the functioning of the institutions of the rule of law will be. There will still be political influences and everything else. And I think with this practice, we need to break up and be responsible and stick to content and not form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96060	HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96061	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian People's Party Club in the previous procedure when we were elected by three members of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court judges did not participate, not because they would have any objection to any candidate who appeared or who came to vote in front of this House, but because of the shooting speed of the procedure. That was the only reason. We warned of this all the time and said that in such a process of choosing such serious places as the judges of the Constitutional Court we cannot and do not want to participate. I must now say that this procedure, which the committee has led to since the call was made, the way in which the talks were collected and the time between the first, second, third and this final phase, when we come before you with our candidates, has been really high-quality, thorough and there has been enough time for everyone interested in this Parliament and in the Croatian public to take all their thoughts out, argue, root, lobby or anything else. What I also want to say is that the Croatian People's Party and its club in Parliament have neither its own party or party favourite. Nor did he have it last time. Nor does he have it now. That's why I'm surprised at the connotations here today that both here and this time again are present as a single measure. Yesterday, at the board meeting, we had a mission of seventeen candidates to propose to you a list of the foundations that you will vote on. We've all agreed on the intention, intention or desire that it would be good for all five judges to be elected as much as we should choose. How many candidates to come before you? Five, six, seven, eight, they were all topics of conversation yesterday on the board. And then we estimate if we go with a bigger one, the whole list is less likely to choose all five. Some of them said so what then? So we'll repeat procedure and procedure, and we'll repeat it for so long until we fill the Constitutional Court with the required number. And we approached a secret plea. All 17 candidates were on the ballot and because of the desire to know both in front of you and in public I will read the number of votes the candidates received yesterday on the board. In order to prove consent, a high degree of consent within the Constitution Committee. Ivan Matija 12, Zoran Piculjan 11, Mirko Klinžić 10, Mirjana Juričić 9, Antonija Kovačić 9, Aldo Radolović 9, Mario Jelusic 8, Đorđe Marović 6, Mladen Turkalj 2, Milka Savić 1, and Tonči Majica 1. So out of the seventeen candidates, eleven received votes. Of those eleven who received the votes of the board members, we gave you a list of seven candidates. I would also like to remind you of the procedure and the Rules of Procedure of this House that the Parliament can decide to extend this list, to evaluate in your debate and that these seven candidates are not enough numbers for you to choose the best. And that's possible by an amendment in which you will decide. And we talked about it on the board yesterday as an opportunity. And of course this order of votes from the committee's procedures can do that. I think that if such a proposal were to be made and the majority in Parliament accepted it, in fact, would further strengthen credibility and demonstrate their willingness to and from the Constitutional Court, and the lawyers argue that calling on the Constitutional Law of the Constitutional Court has no basis for showing certain measures of positive discrimination, a certain move of positive discrimination including the eighth candidate on the list that you will decide on. Our club will also support it and join the vote in hope and faith that the choice will be successful, if not for all five, then at least for three, which would be more than half and that after this because of the procedure that has been carried out, no one will need to remain a bitter taste in their mouth. Anything else and others think about partying or anything about the Croatian People's Party club I refuse, these can be witnessed by all members of the board who attended a public conversation with candidates until the decision-making process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96062	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96063	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I listened to Mr. Popovec, Kramaric, and I almost signed their resignations. I'm sorry if there's not been an opportunity for the Constitutional Court to be a representative of the minority. I also regret that I am not 13.7, or that the IDS club did not support some judges such as Jasna Omejec, Alda Radolovic, or let's say Mrs Babic. I also think that what we did in the opposition back then was unnecessary. It only takes so much to resolve a dilemma that wasn't created on Mark's, but on Ible's square. I also thought that the procedure was orderly at the time. It is a pity, however, that the President of the Parliament, Mr. Shakespeare, did not give some time out for maybe an hour or two because by then I had the impression that I could have chosen the full assembly of the court. And I spoke publicly before that vote and after voting that it was not good to do so. We were in opposition with the the thesis that delaying the choice of judges might be aimed at pro-longing the election and now that we have been given the opportunity not to "boycott the choice". I was almost lynched personally in Istria for not giving support to Mr. Ald Radolovic that day. That this is how Mr. Perusko can testify, and Mr. Hrelja, and Mr. Poirot and our naturalised Istrian Kramarić. And I think people were right back then. What did I do then? Calculating if we stay here in the Parliament will attack us if we don't solidify with the opposition. If we leave, there was an even worse attack, a reaction due to four IDS votes was not elected Mr. Aldo Radolovic. But what am I saying? These ground-floor shops that are constantly in operation in this country simply don't lead to anything. On the other hand, none of us who have obtained the legitimacy of citizens have been given a mandate to play with any institutions or people. The mandate has no power either, the mandate has no opposition, the mandate has no government, the mandate has no parliament, the president of the state or anyone else. This play of people is the most groundbreaking thing that can happen, that because of the current interest of this or that, of the one who is in power or the one who is in opposition simply raises a question to the entire institution. Unfortunately, in this country it happens too often. Not the best but the ones closest to someone in power or opposition are passing, and there is a Pupovac absolutely right when he mentioned a whole series of such examples. That's how we see it with the secretary of state, that's how it is with the directors in public enterprises, so now with this election on Croatian Radio-Television. Oh, God, spare us all the cleanup that's going on over there. It is always after that that someone's debt must be paid back, so we are constantly in this country spinning around and catching our own tail. We were 13.7. so this year a few months ago for the first time since the constitutional court was formed, we could have avoided individuals and I'll say ala Vice Vukojevic and 13.7 in some way in some way we've been retrieved by the Crescent Constitutional Court. Now we have a chance to make it right. In a way, to be in the ashes, to admit as I am now doing for this pay phone that we were mistaken in the IDS. So we were. It hurts me that I've kind of turned out to be naive. But maybe sometimes it's better to look naive than it's covered with all the fat and, above all, it's broken. The truth is, and this generation of Constitutional Court judges is a political choice. He would even dare to say that he is a political choice rather than someone else who shows himself to be independent and is always very committed. However, we all agree the Constitutional Court is a political body, a couple of exellance political bodies. We've seen that he's been behind a whole series of decisions like that. What I absolutely welcome in the Constitutional Court is their decision to repay the pensioners. I hope so, too, that soon they will talk about those who, for God's sake, made a deal with the state to get 50 percent in something faster wars. I hope these people get a fee at one hundred percent from some new government. Either way, the Constitutional Court may, for the first time, become a truly representative and credible body. I want to believe that these candidates who will be elected this afternoon can guarantee it. I'm sorry we haven't recognized that yet 13.7. Too bad it was traded, perhaps more within the opposition then than in power. Too bad Mr. Shakespeare didn't take advantage of the opportunity, took advantage of that authority of the President of the Parliament, and eventually tried to resolve those dilemmas with one of them. And lastly, this time IDS will vote for judges, which I've been telling the public, our candidates know each other. And I'm sure the new Constitutional Court council will be the most credible one by now. I also regret that this country is almost on the verge of a small constitutional crisis. In one word, I am not pleased with this division between the president of the state and the government on the question of who will represent Croatia in New York on the 15th of this month. You all know that we in IDS would be far more pleased to have that. be Stipe Mesic but Ivo Sanader [[Agreement: This is the second topic of fellow Cain, this is another topic.]] But I think it would be good if we could open a brief parliamentary debate on this subject too, Mr. President. [[Employer: My colleague Cain, this is another topic.]] Anyway, once again, I think the time has come for us to choose for the first time after what? In 1991, a credible judge of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96064	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96065	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, one wise man said that God gave the man two ears and one tongue, and thus predetermined that it was smarter to listen twice as much as to speak. I try to hold on to those maximums often and not react when it's not necessary. However, they cannot react and do not correct the incorrect allegations of counterparts Damir Cain who said that 13.7 was created, a problem created in Iblero and not in Mark's square. That's incorrect. The problem was created exclusively in Mark's square for rape proceedings. And I'm taking this opportunity to say that Mr. Damir Cain and in several of his public statements said that the SDP Club gave up the vote because of the club's breakup. He knows that he is not a member of the SDP Club and I, who is a member of the SDP Club and at every session I approach, know that there has been no separation and that the problem is exclusively created by rape proceedings here on Mark's square and that is only true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96066	I have to react to my colleague, Peru, and explain briefly there was no rape procedure. The candidates called for an ad competition, all the candidates who were interested. There was plenty of time to report to that tendering deadline. I think it's been 15 days. Everyone's in touch. After that, the tender deadline when those who applied for the Constitutional Committee verified whether they had come within, whether they were meeting formal assumptions. He scheduled his session. He questioned all the candidates as he did in this last time. Like he did the other day. Afterwards, he set up a list of candidates. That list of candidates was made available to the public. In the list of candidates, it was held for debate at the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately part of the MPs went over the debate. He didn't want to take part in the debate. After the debate, which had the chance to discuss what Committee on the Constitution had proposed in this list of candidates as in this list of candidates, it was now up to the vote. So I'm removing her from the objection that it was neither an injury nor a rape procedure. Second correction by the respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96067	So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of fellow Caine who said that the strategy of obstruction of the Constitutional Court's election was designed on Iblero's and that it was the interests of the parties. In fact, in his speech here, counterpart Cain showed that his interests were at stake because he said he should have stayed only to vote for Judge Radolovic, so it is an indicator of party and personal interests. And as for the Constitutional Court why we didn't vote the last time we didn't because there was a rape procedure and we got here in the Assembly two minutes before we started discussing the constitutional judges of their life. At that moment, we gave up only for principled reasons and we were interested in the Constitutional Court judges choosing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96068	There was no colleague of any rape procedure or injury procedure. All representatives of the Croatian Parliament after the Committee on the Constitution submitted its proposal and set out a proposal for a list of candidates, it was at the debate and you had a chance to discuss it. Why didn't you discuss it is your business. But don't move on that it was a rape procedure. The procedure is respected, same, same procedure being conducted now in this section. Same as she was spending there in... Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: But they're not invited to Beolasica, that's the problem.]] HNS representative club, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96069	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In front of the Croatian party of pensioners, I think that we are overly dramatic and we use difficult words, as well as inappropriate words in this discussion. We can blame anyone for anything this time. But the decision is in our hands. How about a little problem in the Croatian Parliament so about this situation the decision is exclusively in our hands and it is not at all disputed that the choice will be successful regardless of whether we choose one, three or five judges of the Constitutional Court. So the election procedure itself speaks of the seriousness of this, of this matter. The choice should be won 77 votes. But it should also be said that each of us has the right to round up one, two, five, six, and make the ballot invalid, and with that procedure itself, the seriousness, the seriousness of the election and the freedom of the MPs to give their trust to whoever he wants not to explain why he gave him the vote. So this partying which was spoken of independently of what was said to be part of the objection made to this speaker this morning was justified. But this partying can only prevent us from freely choosing the people we believe and who we think will play the role, that the duty of the Constitutional Court judge will be done with honor and honesty. Today, we Parliamentarians decide today and choose not the Constitutional Court judge. We choose those who judge, who decide, who make decisions and judgments of the Constitutional Court that are binding. We're looking for the capable today, not the like. We're looking for excellent, not average ones. We're looking for the best, and I repeat, we're looking for judges. We're not looking for any fissures, no prosecutors, no administrative lawyers, we're looking for judges. And the judge must have essential courage and responsibility for making a decision. Of course, never public presentations of candidates is enough. And even if all candidates were to publicly present their views on television, etc. And that still wouldn't be enough. We need to have that sense of measure as well. I hope that today's election of Constitutional Court judges will still pass in a much better atmosphere than it was on July 13th, that we will all vote on our conscience and our beliefs with a minimum party discipline. And I hope that Mr. Dear colleague Cain, my good friend, will no longer have to seek an alibi for his actions and will not have to apologize to the citizens of Istria for why he and IDS did not vote for Mr. Aldo Radolovic on July 13th because there were no obstacles to round up only one on the list today and to approach the vote. And I also think that Ibler Square and Mark's square are not an obstacle to representatives from Istria, all together agreeing on candidates who will support it. It's our right. And also a commitment to the citizens of Istria. And finally, I think that Mr. Aldo Radolovic is a great choice for the Constitutional Court judge, that he will be supported by all Istrian MPs and I hope that most MPs in the Croatian Parliament will support him. And yet I say, we'll do the job, so the choice will be successful whether you choose one, three or all five judges. And certainly if we choose one, there is room for solving and those problems that were opened here this morning, which are members of minorities in the Constitutional Court and members of other structures, i.e. groups of citizens in Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96070	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96071	Mr. Hrelja, the dilemma was only 13.7, whether to solidarity with the ruling majority or the opposition. The IDS goes back and forth today and tomorrow if we are not in the government, it's solidarity with the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96072	The Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96073	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would debate this time about candidates and a proposal for a list of candidates, a narrow list, for the election of judges of the Constitutional Court actually devoted my entire debate to a specific issue. This question concerns the fact that, in my deep belief, in terms of conditions, if there are such candidates among the candidates who fully meet all the formal and material and legal conditions laid down so that they can be candidates, that they can pass into the second round, as well as everyone else and, in addition, in the discussion before the Committee on the Constitution, it is also assessed that it would be very necessary and desirable in the structure of the Constitutional Court to be a representative of the national minorities. I would like to say that in the current practice of the Constitutional Court in the first part after we first elected the Constitutional Court, we had a representative of national minorities, both during war conflicts and war destruction. It should also be said that in the three cases so far, in 2001, and it seems to me that in 2002 we did not have the opportunity to point out a suitable candidate for a simple reason because in the narrow circle they did not enter or pass a certain procedure or did not appear at all. And in a situation like this, I'd like to say yes, a few words about this question. First, we have, although not resolved by the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court whether in the constitutional court's structure it should be or should not be a representative or one judge from the order of national minorities, I do not think that he is a representative of national minorities, but that he is from the structure of national minorities. But we have said I already have a political-legal practice that tends in that direction. Secondly, we have Article 22 of the Second Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which in point, i.e. paragraph 2, I will quote: "The members of the national minorities shall be given representation in the bodies of the State Administration and the judicial authorities in accordance with the provisions of the special law, taking into account the participation of members of national minorities in the total population at the level at which the body of the State Administration, the judicial authority is adopted...", and so on. The fact is that the Constitutional Court is not, in a narrow sense, a judicial authority, but it is absolutely certain that, apart from their qualifications as well as the judicial body, it is, among other things, a court. And in this respect, even though the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court said that there should be representation, it should be the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which, in this respect as constitutional law, in fact, lex specialis on the issue of minorities should be taken into account, formally, politically. Look, politically, fortunately, the Republic of Croatia is in time and space when the question of possible resolution of the rights of members of national minorities is no longer a political issue, so it is no longer a legal question. It is both political and legal if it is related to the implementation of the current rights set out in the Constitution, constitutional laws and other laws governing these issues, on the one hand. And those material-economically, or financially, depending on the resources at our disposal or on which we are able to create material-financial conditions and we realize that. Third thing I'd like to say. This time, two members, from whose documents and materials and personal data can be listed, appeared to be members of the national minorities. One of the candidates has already been spoken of. I would like to say publicly that not at all on the issue of personal characteristics, but by entering professional issues or by better saying as I have assessed the committee I should conclude that both candidate Djordje Maravić and at the debate on the list of candidates in the narrow circle, after a secret vote I would have received 6 votes and in this respect I would be in favour of giving the amendment and giving it to the Parliament, that the list of candidates should be extended to one more place, so that we do not have 7 candidates on the list but 8 candidates with the name of Djorge Marovic and that the Assembly declares whether it accepts such enlargement and that in the second round, if it accepts it, of course, decide whether to vote whether to elect the Constitutional Court judge and not to judge, Mr. Djordje Marović. I say that there are valid and political legal reasons for us to act in principle and in general. In addition, there is a concrete point, it is a very high-quality candidate who has made such an impression as I have spoken to the board members, for all the board members. And second, which, of course, like everyone else, as well as Mrs Savik, meets all other formal conditions and assumptions that he could be a candidate for the Constitutional Court judge and therefore I will deliver one amendment, or one example of the amendment, to the President's table, the other to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to Mr. President Bosnjakovic, and he, in the final word, will be manifested on the amendment. I'd like to point out one more thing. I discussed this and yesterday on the board to correct the committee. And the board then took a stand so as not to accept the extension of the list. Of course, the rest is a matter of committees that the board cannot and cannot enter, that the Parliament has the right to extend the list if it so wishes. So I don't know whether the board will have the need to meet again or not, I don't insist on meeting again, but of course I expect the board president, in accordance with the way the debate was happening here and here in the Assembly and now in the Parliament and yesterday on the committee, to be shown and of course the Parliament then withdraws the right word on this matter, by actually making its decision whether to extend or not to extend this list of candidates. I think it would be good to repeat that one of the candidates, one of the judges of the Constitutional Court, should be of the order of the national minorities, and now I will also say because of the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court itself. In fact, whether we wanted to or not, it should be recalled that the Constitutional Court primarily judges in matters of the assessment of constitutionality and legality. Among them is a whole series of acts that directly or indirectly regulate the issue of the exercise of not only human rights and the freedom of individual people and citizens but also members of the ethnic national community and minorities, and in this respect, it would be good to have a representative in the Constitutional Court, or one of the judges of the Constitutional Court in the order of national minorities. Secondly, the fact is that we have a well-regulared state-level problem of national minorities, but that we are entering a phase when we have more and more objections ourselves and in this House are spoken in both government and government reports, that there are a lot of shortcomings in the implementation of these regulations, as well as irresponsibility at the level of units of local and regional self-government that do not actually provide their statutes and acts in time, and often neither in a certain way nor in the quality to realise it and ensure regulation which will allow the exercise of rights under the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities, the right to use language and letter or the right of education and education of members of national minorities as regulated in particular. Therefore, we will have and increasingly begin to appear and cases based on constitutional charges in which individual members of national minorities seek protection of their rights before the Constitutional Court. These are all reasons which suggest that it would be good in the constitutional court structure under conditions of the same professional quality, the same formal assumptions that must be fulfilled, we open up the space and in this council of the Constitutional Court that, in this constituency of the Constitutional Court, one of the judges of the Constitutional Court to be of the order of national minorities, it gives me more the right now to establish this in the Turbulent times, at the time of the Homeland War, in open conflicts, we have repeatedly had in the structure of the judges of the Constitutional Court of Justice of one of the national minorities, it was an honorary judge of the Constitutional Court in the pension of Mr Vojislav Pucejković, who is worthy and quality of protecting the constitutional rights and freedoms of our citizens and constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Constitution and the Constitutional Court of Justice of the Constitutional Court of the General of the Constitutional Court of Justice of the Constitutional Court of the General of the Generals of the Generals of the General of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Republic of the Court of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Croatia, and the Court of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Croatia, that we should have no jurisdictions of Croatia's of Croatia's of Croatia's of jurisdictions of Croatia's of the Courts of the Republics of the Republic of Croatia's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96074	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96075	Mr. President, allow me, unlike my colleague Kovacevic, to rarely use this institute, I suppose this is my first time in this term, and I have come forward because I think that Mr. Arlovic's vice president is wrong by forcing minority representation in the Assembly in the matter I was just talking about in his speech. It is not enough just to be a member of the minority, nor a Serb, to reach the Constitutional Court. If you're not working, but the sloth where you work, if you're not without temptation and fall, then you can, and if you have them in your life for such an important and difficult place, it's better to leave people to do what they can. And finally, I can understand that the place of self-control defender is a place that qualify people for a job, but not in these times. No lawyer practice, no serious court practice, no mandatory practice in state services, there's no point in forcing people. Let's leave it alone, and we're not looking for other similar people even if it's from a national minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96076	Replica response, respected MP and vice president of the House, Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96077	Mr. President, first of all, I don't think that in this House someone should have the exclusive right to represent only members of the national minorities but to be able and to do so by any representative in the Parliament of their choice. Secondly, I at least spoke of not just one national minority but of all national minorities, and I think it would be good and so I said, that in the order of the national minorities someone should be elected in the constitutional court structure, provided that they meet the formal, substantive and professional conditions. Second. I said that this time two candidates appeared, based on the material, based on discussions and debates in the identification of the list, determined for one candidate that he had given him the advantage and therefore I suggested that he be a candidate for the extension of the list. Third. It is not true that a Constitutional Court judge should have to have a lawyer or do not know a constitutional court or any other practice in order to prove that he is a good judge of the Constitutional Court. There were and now there are going to be judges who weren't even lawyers, they didn't work in courts either, but they either worked at the university or worked at the state administration and showed and proved that they were very good judges of the Constitutional Court, which the practice in particular showed. Of course, it would be good if, with all these professional conditions, there were also those who met these additional conditions that they did different jobs because the more jobs they did, the more experience they gained, in addition to the theoretical and practical knowledge they could use for the judges of the Constitutional Court, and in this respect I agree. Now, about some qualifications that Pupovac said about candidate Marovic that he is lazy, that he is unemployed and unprofessional, which I don't know, I couldn't argue about. But it is very interesting and these materials make it very nice to see that a colleague works in the state administration, in the ministry, and I am very surprised that Mr. Markovic could work in such a high place if he works and does his jobs the way Pupavac talks, because it would certainly be a reason for him to have to leave his post. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96078	Okay. Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96079	Your Honor, Mr. President! I will begin my discussion from a very wise claim by my colleague Milorad Pupovac, which reads: It is not enough to be a member of the minority and not a Serb to come to the Constitutional Court. It is a very wise saying and I will begin with grief to explain why I believe that the candidate supported by the Serb community in Croatia is not satisfying this wise thought by a colleague of Pupovac himself. My colleague Milka Savic had a low average score, I think a little more than three Pupovac colleagues. I think she's been studying for over six years. Before the council hearing, she was smoking there. And on the way of one of the candidates that there was no tremor before the council hearing said that she was getting cold, that she was inside. I mean, if you or your colleague Pupovac had called me as an assistant with such qualifications, then you or I would have turned him down. Therefore, that is the basic problem. Another problem is the potential conflict of interest of a colleague or not a colleague, Savic. And the third most important thing that was important to me, too, is that she didn't get a certificate from a professional association. She spoke to the Attorney's Office and the bar rejected her. I got all that paperwork. And her plea and her refusal. Therefore, I think that due to the return of dignity or dignity of the Constitutional Court, it is important that Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic led this time not a political and depolitic, professional system and hearings and selection of candidates for the Constitutional Court. The other problem is that there may not have been an excellent candidate. There were several candidates with average scores below three or about three percent, some studied for seven years, and even some colleagues from this House of Commons. In the end, they realized it wasn't good for the Constitutional Court to report, so they gave up their candidacy. So there's nothing personal. Neither will he, politically in that position. Why didn't people answer? One reason is the undeniable Vice Vukojevic. Is someone who will be in the Constitutional Court where Vice Vukojevic is publicly accused of great evil. Does anyone want to be in the Constitutional Court chosen by the system of inter-party settlements? And the Constitutional Court is a great institution. We practically have big constitutional dilemmas a day. This morning we are witnessing a dispute over who should go to the United Nations, the President of the Republic or the Prime Minister? These are all important constitutional issues, and that is why it is important that we have serious and quality people there. I thank the president of our committee for the fantastic, correct procedure. There were no errors in the procedure. I'm very sorry that my colleague Arlovic didn't speak for the SDP club there, you understand. It's the last time to create this club atmosphere and speak for the club, because what he was saying is very wise and important. From the qualifications of these people or those people, I don't think of it either. I personally suggested several criteria that were accepted on the board. That's what everyone can testify to. First of all, professional excellence. Professional excellence should also be regulated in the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court as it should lay down minimum criteria. At least the average, let's say three and a half percent. Longest study, say, five, six years. Speak at least two sides of the language. You can't enroll in law school today if you don't have one. That you were not punished for human rights violations, that at times of totalitarianism you did not violate human rights, that you did not condemn a man for a verbal delinquent, that you did not condemn the president of our House of Commons. So these are some criteria that should be defined there. Generally, the second criterion is the structure of the case. Among the four thousand cases that will be before the Constitutional Court this year may be one or two percent of criminal cases. Therefore, one culprit in the image of fellow Krapca is enough for the next twenty, thirty years. It doesn't take much more than two lawyers. I think we already have two lawyers. I must say that people do not know that the position of the constitutional judge is one position more important and better paid than the position I may not tell the minister, but certainly the parliamentary representative. I think there's about 18, 20,000 kuna in there. And everyone looks down on us with contempt, they think we're overpaid and unemployed, and lately even drunks. The third criterion is equal representation of science and profession. In the judicial profession in general, and as in surgically too smart people can be dangerous. There are practical decisions to be made. So balance. In European Constitutional Courts one third of people from the scientific community, two thirds of professional communities, from public administration, from the judiciary, rarely from the state's attorney's office, a little from the attorney's office in general. Equal regional representation, I am glad that counterpart Kajin supported Aldo Radolovic and that he realized that he was not manipulated, but he is a good and decent man and is solidarity often "a priori" and "a priori" solidarity with his own wife can be dangerous. So you should always use the heart of reason. And two positive discriminatory criteria, the first one is sex because we have to have in the Constitutional Court let's say at this stage, Mr. President, one-third of women would be good to have a positive criterion of minority discrimination. However, minorities always by the criteria proposed by my colleague, Pupovac, who I will repeat. So someone who is a minority and even a Serb should not be in the Constitutional Court. He's got to be great. Moreover, minorities are careful to propose the best because they represent such a position. I'm not going to say that my colleague Savik came to the Japanese in this House. I don't mind that, but a form of respect certainly does us good. And two more words about concrete candidates. We have good candidates. I will personally say that I am pleased that with a high number of votes, Zoran Piculjan appears, means a man who has knowledge from the public administration, from the state administration, a rich diplomatic experience, certainly speaks two languages and will welcome the Constitutional Court. ... Here, three. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Maybe he plays a certain instrument when he speaks a lot of languages. ... There you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ivan Matija, therefore, who came to the Constitutional Court as some kind of party parachutist and received the largest number of votes. It means that in four years he's grown up to be a real judge, that he no longer depends on political parties. In particular, I will support Aldo Radolovic and Marija Jelusic, who comes symbolically to the place of Judge Smiljko Sokola and in response to my question, reconciled something that I personally highly appreciate, collegiate and professional loyalty to my teacher. He did not insult him, nor should Bagaric insult me by the oath of Hippocrates. But he was honest and he said what he meant.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96080	Was it Bakaric or Bagaric?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96081	Bagaric is my student, and Bakaric is... Professor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96082	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96083	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So the question is whether we're slaves to form or we stick to content. If we slave the form then it will happen to us in the assembly, today it is a little more than seven, eight or thirty, and others will slave form and will only appear at the vote and then they will be bothered by what some of us who want professionally, professionally, honestly and honestly do their job as a parliamentary representative because there is a special democracy in the work. So we represent Croatian citizens here. So we directly represent them in making all decisions. Mathematically speaking, although not all of us really mean it, represent here 30,000 Croatian voters, Croatian citizens when they vote on something and then will use the opportunity to strive both on purpose and from some other public initiatives such as the other day, a colleague of Rožić who has never been in the Assembly said that I, the abuse institute, was correcting an incorrect allegation, any replication. But it's my responsibility. I take the job of a parliamentary representative as a commitment to Croatian citizens. And that's the answer to Mr. Milorad and everyone else. So the question is how many of us have read these résumés. Let's say how many of us have read the résumés, how many of us have read the legal texts in general, the proposals of the legal texts we voted on. A small number he read, I saw from the debate, from the discussion. So we understand the function of Parliament's representative as a form and that's bad. And then when we understand the function of the parliamentary representative as a form, we are also referring to the election of the Constitutional Court judges, especially if what the media announced yesterday was that Mr. Luka Bebic had a jokebachter in the committee vote. Then how, the media published it, I didn't say it was true. That he had a jokebachter when he voted at the board meeting. Then to whom we talk about wanting professional excellence, to want expertise, to want honesty in selecting judges of the Constitutional Court. Then who are we talking to, who are we selling the fog to? So, if that's true. I'm not saying it's true that Mr. Baby had a jokebachter but in that sense, it's dusk to stick to just form. So the form also led us to believe that this is the situation in the Croatian judiciary, that the institutions of the rule of law do not function, that judges are not named according to the criteria of expertise and professionality of excellence, honesty, patriotism but are named by various similar party or some third criteria which have nothing to do with what we want to implement the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So we need to change one whole level of thinking if we want to reform the Croatian judiciary. Let's introduce a new system, a system that will allow judges' jobs at all levels to be treated by people who are professional, professionally excellent, honest and patriotic. So we should also stick to the choice of judges and Supreme Court and all others, which is, above all, the Constitutional Court. For let us look at Article 128, that it is visible what the Constitutional Court decides. It also decides on the conflict of jurisdiction between the body of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, the assessment of constitutionality, the lawsuits and everything else. So the decision of responsibility is big. If we meet our forms, we'll satisfy them, they'll have a Constitutional Court, as five new members say here, a total of thirteen. So we formally did what was formally done but we didn't get into any trouble again. and therefore we are not surprised that this situation in Croatia is related to the functioning of the rule of law. It is therefore possible that the action of Maestro is a surprise, not a regular activity of the law enforcement body and everything else. That's why it's possible that there's no sanctioned robbery and robbery in conversion and privatisation. and that is why it is possible to pass laws read by several MPs in the Croatian Parliament without being read by either members of the Government or representatives of the Croatian Parliament, which is one of their main tasks. So let's keep doing your job.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96084	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96085	It's completely incorrect, colleague Kovacevic, that you said that Mr. Bebic had some kind of jokebachter. And you said that in your own way because you were on that same board and you could see that that wasn't true. And the illusion of yours is that because of some kind of jokebachter has gone rogue and that, is the best answer that Mr. Mattia has received 12 votes. That's your best answer. And your insult by having been at such a conversation 4 years or 5 years ago, so you didn't get a pass for the Constitutional Court judge is exactly the reason for your reaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96086	What would that be? Another breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96087	... was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] First insult, insult. When there are no arguments, then remember HDZ representatives use insult. [[/Intruder: What is an insult?]] This is clean... /The speaker's off. /... the situations, you understand? And I didn't say it was true, but I said that some media transmitted it, that I don't want to believe it. Here. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96088	You know what, colleague Kovacevic. That's how it works out for you. Listen, you know, you're a liar and a thief, but I'm not saying it's true, but someone wrote it. But it's not like that. I'm not saying you are. That you're a thief and I'm not talking about you. I'm saying it as a principle. [[No, it's not like that. No, it's not like that at all.]] Like that kind of rhetorical figure, right? To be said to be a bastard, a creep, a thief, a liar, all expensive. And it's said, "There, I'm saying it." But I'm not saying that. I might because someone said it, wrote someone in the media. It's like if you get on... the way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96089	I was just talking about the atmosphere you guys understand? It's just about the atmosphere. I didn't say that was true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96090	Yeah, yeah. Only if it's true, right? Like now some MP says about me or I say about him if you're one disgusting pig is that, isn't it, then the medium wrote it, is it? That's why, that's what I caricate when something is written for someone so it's transmitted that it might be so. U.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s club, Honored Representative Ratko Gajica, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96091	Thank you, Mr. President. I need to say a few sentences after this proposal to put the minority candidate on the list of candidates for the Constitutional Judge's election for the following reasons. On the one hand, I may be talking about the principle of a good proposal that stems from a social purpose that proves again that it is useful, opportunized, that it makes sense. Yes, to use that expression honestly and from that point of view in principle I'm saying it's totally fine. But there's still another thing that, in my sense of measure, must be connected. This is now proposed in extra time and this is proposed by a method that is a form that cannot pass. And to be perfectly honest with you when it happens in this context that can't possibly produce a result, then it's quite clear that such a proposal is dishonest. I even dare say that it makes no sense because if we see in this House or as responsible people we see that there is a need for one of the minorities to be in the Constitutional Court then it must be immediately at the beginning of the story, then it must be affirmed throughout the story. Then it must be on some to say so enveloped and in suggestions with respect that it brings social benefits. Otherwise, when it comes out of the sleeve or under the grain, it is to a large extent hypocritical. I, perhaps, may not have thought so, but you know that, it just so turns out simply because, realistically speaking here, a choice will be made in circumstances, in the atmosphere that I feel prepared. And if so, I'm afraid that's how it is then all of this we're talking about is not going to be achieved or what we're talking about is not going to be achieved, and then it's kind of a painty proposal that doesn't talk much. Or who doesn't speak for the candidates. Either if I can put it that way speaking in favor, in favor, or talking about the Proposer. I, as a man who advocates not formally speaking participation, but I bow to those people who understand that in the constitutional court, honest and useful should be one of the minority members, then it must not be done through a small door. Through, through a hole in the roof. Because it doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't send a good message, and I don't think we'd agree to that. I'm very confident that in this vote we won't, we won't agree to that. And now, I'm going to say as a man that exactly because, what if we use such a method then I want to say here publicly that I see dishonesty in that. And when, when, I could agree with one more thing. In the last round of selecting members of the Constitutional Court, we have shown a certain dose of non-compliance. Even in some ways, I could read a certain amount of dishonesty. When it continues then it is, then we kind of said on the same "phone". I remember another thing that isn't about selecting the Constitutional Court, but it is about the participation of minorities in this House. In a similar way, minority representatives in this House were discussed. In a similar way, voting rights were discussed and other other decisions made here or proposed here. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96092	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the vice president of the House, the respected representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96093	Sir, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There is no point in correcting the debate because obviously there is one party in the national minority order against those who belong to that national minority who are not ready to be subject to influence, the political influence of that party. Otherwise, I can't explain it from the regulations how it is possible for the net to say that it is hypocritical to propose what has been proposed by the amendment, I think of myself, if the candidate among other things is employed by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia where he works and where he has received positive reviews for his work so far, because in the administration of the ministry is assessed for his work. And the question arises how is then possible by your colleague, and colleagues of Pupovac before that to present facts and data that actually discredits a man, I think it's unfair. And not just hypocritical. And please take care of your colleagues that the Constitution and the law of well-being should be applied in this House, not against man.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96094	Dear representative Ljubica Lalic, a five-minute debate on behalf of the HSS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96095	Thank you, Mr. President. So here is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party did not get involved in the debate of those 10 minutes and we did not intend to discuss it, because we believe that every debate on a particular candidate in this House has a certain weight and every debate represents a certain mortgage for those chosen. We, as a Club of Representatives, have a representative in the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and on that Committee we participated and actively and questioned candidates and based on those knowledge we have gained from the convictions of course we voted on the candidate's proposal. Of course we haven't fulfilled our wishes, probably like any club. Among those candidates were good, there were great, good and worse. But because of the dignity of both this House and the Constitutional Court, we don't think we should discuss candidates the way we discussed it, because the vote is secret. In a secret vote, everyone will give their opinion on it. And finally, let's not even underestimate the Constitutional Court, let's not exaggerate. Because it is quite certain that in the Republic of Croatia there are far better candidates for constitutional judges than we have won in the competition. However, the Committee and this Assembly may only choose between those who have applied. And those who have applied are again ranked in a variety of ways and we end the vote because the debates on individual candidates have weight and are not necessary and these selected candidates do not have to carry behind them... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96096	Thank you very much. Final review, Committee President Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96097	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to thank everyone for the debate. But I also want to thank the members of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system who have indeed participated in a very good way throughout this procedure which is quite complex. Because indeed the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court is one very important issue in our House. I have to testify once again that we have implemented the procedure fully in accordance with the constitutional law and I don't think there can be any objections to the procedure and it's gone. I'm sorry, there were certain re-debates regarding the procedure we had at the 6th and 7th months. There were even a little harder words that we raped that. But we didn't. I would also personally like to have had a lot more time at 6 and 7 months, if we could discuss a lot more about candidates, but sometimes we don't affect how much time we have for something to do. We've had something less here, but we've met all the legal requirements, all the legal stages that the law provides for in the choice of judges we've implemented. And finally, I just want to remind you that these constitutional judges we've chosen so far are Professor Krapac, this is Mrs. Snježana Bagic, Dr. Marko Babic, Mrs. Jasna Omjec, all I think are very good candidates, that they will be very good judges of the Constitutional Court and that the choice was right. We have a list of seven candidates here. We came to her through a really very correct debate yesterday on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. We've often had this discussion and split up. But again we're in one way I'd say a correct way to get these seven names that we hold to be the best quality and we're offering them to choose between those seven names 5. You'll see it's not easy. Needs a candidate to win means most, qualified. We'll see how many we choose today. I'm sorry about the exposure of my esteemed colleague, Pupovec. I just have to say that the candidate lady mentioned by no ugly or bad sentence at the Committee's session has been spoken of. Simply in the debate, other candidates received more votes this time. They are proposed to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament will decide who to choose. I would also like to show myself at once to the amendment of my colleague Mate Arlovic. That's what we discussed on the board yesterday. A colleague, Arlovic, asked the Committee yesterday to extend the list to 8 candidates. Also suggested this name. However, even after the debate, we unanimously took the stand to go with List 7. And so here I am not even going to call a session of the Constitution Committee to discuss it, but simply for these reasons, it is not acceptable for me to accept this amendment which my colleague Arlovic has certainly submitted in good faith and good intentions. Thank you again, everyone. And we've done a really good job.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96098	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this amendment by colleague Arlovic before that vote on the list, on candidates for the list. And ladies and gentlemen, we're still going to the finale today. Proposal for a list of candidates to elect judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. We have one amendment submitted by a respected representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. The President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System shall give one more indication regarding this amendment, the amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96100	Mr. President! I already pleaded in the debate. The Committee does not accept the amendment because we also discussed exactly what counterpart Arlovic proposed and decided on the list of seven. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96101	Not to repeat the debate, I'm just asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96102	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! We'll hold a secret vote. Since the number of candidates proposed is higher than the number elected, the election requires most of the total number of MPs. The procedure is well-known. We will also vote on the election of candidates, a proposal for candidates to elect a member of the State's Attorney's Council. And six MPs and representatives who will help conduct the secret vote are happily elected and named Velimir Plesa, Valter Poropat, Ljubica Lalić, Vesna Škulić, Silvano Hrelja and Zdenka Chuhnil. It's a 30-minute stop and we're going to vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The vote is over. I declare that of the 152 MPs, 124 MPs also voted in favour of the Constitutional Court's election. There were no wrong ballots. The candidates received the following votes: Mario Jelusic 71, Mirjana Juričić 22, Mirko Klinžić 58, Antonia Kovačić 20, Ivan Matija 105, Zoran Pičuljan 46, Aldo Radolović 78. I declare that Ivan Matija and Aldo Radolovic were elected judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The elected judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia will take office on 7 December 2007. [[Applause]] On 7 December 2007, the term of office of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia who were elected to the office by the decision of the Croatian Parliament's House of Representatives of the Croatian Parliament of 22 October 1999 ends.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96594	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the final draft law on the exercise of the right to legal aid, which is a further step in the process of consistent implementation of constitutional provisions on equal availability of judicial and other bodies for all citizens and equality of all before the law. The prohibition of discrimination against citizens in view of their social and material opportunities. The obligation to adopt this law stems from the need to establish a complete legal assistance system in the Republic of Croatia, which is contained in both international documents and above all in the European Commission's opinion on the application for membership in the European Union in 2004. Key European Commission documents, progress reports from 2005 and 2006. Draft of the invoice part of the screening report, the National Plan for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union for 2007. This Final Proposal of the Law is also rounding up the entire legal aid system which has already been partially regulated in the Republic of Croatia by the Law on the Procedural Procedure, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on the Resolution of Conflict of Laws with Legal Rules of Other States and the Law on Lawyership. The draft law is fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, and of which Directives 2003/8 EC and The Hague Convention on the Civil Procedure of 1957 and on facilitating international access to the 1988 courts of which the Republic of Croatia is a party. The draft law was referred to the Council of Europe on two occasions. It is in line with Council of Europe experts' recommendations in particular with the European Charter for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Practices of the European Court of Human Rights. What is regulated by this Final Proposal is the type of procedure for which legal aid can be granted. This is about the status and existential rights that citizens are exercising in these procedures. Legal aid for reasons of justice. Therefore, even outside the set of procedures provided that this would be deemed necessary for the reasons of fairness on which the Court of Justice takes its decision in the proceedings, rather than the body of the administration as in other forms of the exercise of this right. The forms of legal assistance which are general legal information, legal advice, writing-making and representation in procedures shall be established. A circle of legal aid providers shall be established and it shall be determined that lawyers in all forms of legal assistance, associations of general legal information, legal advice and written assistance to foreigners during the administrative procedure, legal clinics at law schools or universities for general legal information, legal advice and written preparation, establish a circle of users of legal assistance and define that these are natural persons, Croatian citizens and foreigners who have residence or residence in the Republic of Croatia. After the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and to the citizens of the Member States of the European Union, as well as nationals of non-member countries of the European Union, but are parties to the Hague Conventions as well as to the Republic of Croatia. The right to legal assistance can be achieved, depending on the property opportunities of the search engine and the members of its household, and the property criteria are elaborated in detail by the proposal of this law. The level of legal aid is vice-proportional to the amount of property the applicant, or members of his family household, has. And it binds to exact indicators. Furthermore, the procedure for the exercise of the right to legal aid has been established. It has therefore been established that applications are submitted and legal aid is approved by the Office of State Administration in the Countys and Offices of the City of Zagreb, and in this administrative procedure, the second-degree body is the Ministry of Justice. The supervision of the professional and conscious provision of legal assistance shall also be carried out by the bodies before which the procedure is conducted through the Ministry of Justice, which shall exercise control over the application of this Act. It is also established that legal assistance organisations must be registered to provide legal assistance and that the person providing legal assistance must have legal education and a professional examination. Since the application of this Act requires significant financial resources, the number of applications that may be granted in one month is limited to 1/12 of the total appropriations in the budget of which 10% are reserved for emergencies where the delay could result in loss of citizens' rights, the unused part shall be transferred to the next month. Taking into account the resources needed and the time needed for the establishment of a complete system and the creation of sub-legislative acts, the education of officials and the creation of institutional assumptions for the application of the law in practice, it is proposed that this law enter into force on 1 January 2008 and that organisational, human and technical assumptions be created in 2008 for the establishment of a system for which approximately 5 million kuna is required in the state budget. A full implementation of the legal aid rights is projected to begin with January 1st 2009. And therefore, in 2009, it would be necessary to provide 33 million, slightly more than 385 thousand kuna. It is approximately 0,80 euros per capita of the Republic of Croatia at the level of the assessment. Finally, it should be pointed out that this law not only regulates legal aid for the first time fully. This law ensures equal access to justice for all Croatian citizens, regardless of their property situation. And it is also expected to contribute to a reduction in the number of procedures launched and a shorter duration due to professional assistance that will be available to all citizens as parties in the process. Here, therefore, I propose that this Law be discussed and that it be adopted in this Croatian House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96595	Thank you. The committees? Legislative Committee, Justice Committee. Committee Chairman Emil Tomljanovic, the esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96596	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the 58th session held on 26 September 2007, the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee discussed the final proposal for a Law on the exercise of the right to legal assistance to the slaughter was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 7 September 2007. The Committee discussed the Law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement, the proposer's representative referred to the differences between the final draft of the Law and the solutions set out in the Bill's proposal. Article 36 provides for who can give an initiative to annul the right to legal aid. Article 41 lays down the criteria under which associations may provide legal assistance and Article 43 shall be governed by what they apply to the application for entry in the register. The members of the Committee are familiar with the opinion of the coalition of the Associations on the Final Proposal for a Law on the exercise of the right to legal assistance. Following the debate, the Justice Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a law on the exercise of the right to legal aid.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96597	Thank you. European integration? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96598	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I will say that the SDP club will not support the Final Proposal for a Law on the exercise of the right to legal aid. For reasons I'm going to name the club. Namely, the right to access justice is one of the basic human rights. Everyone must have a real and effective opportunity to protect their rights in a legal procedure and to achieve adequate legal protection. The human right to a fair trial implies and the duty of the state to provide a functional system to help citizens who for their property status or other reasons cannot provide legal assistance, which would allow them to exercise their rights in the process. In Croatia, this issue is particularly important also because of the specificity of the war and transition period during which the need to provide free legal assistance is particularly pronounced. The process of joining the European Union, on the other hand, hastily puts this issue on the agenda and with us in Croatia. I would say this to the government for a long time about this law, but in fact, finally somewhere, it must have admitted the existence and misery and poverty of a part of our citizens, and in some ways admit that there are actually over 70,000 citizens who have only requested through associations and granted the right to free legal aid. However, the law that this government intends to make possible, I would say that everything but the law on free legal aid is. By the way, the law was also called in its original proposal for a law on the right to free legal aid, but I guess in someone's drawer after they removed it was named the Law on the exercise of the right to legal aid, so he lost his original name. The bill actually, you may remember very quietly the first reading, and now we have a final proposal. In the meantime, however, a number of criticisms broke out in the public and demanded that this law be withdrawn as such, and he also experienced a number of warnings from various sides that it would in fact make it impossible in many ways to exercise the right to free legal assistance because of its high red tape, because of the long-term process for obtaining rights, what we call a famous instruction today, as well as to make it impossible for a whole series of NGOs to continue to provide this free legal assistance. In this period of several months, associations have discovered the process of reaching such a bill and argue that this proposal for a law that is here today differs from that proposed law that was originally agreed with associations, and assess that this proposal does not comply with the constitutional principle of equal access to courts, or that it offers an excessive circle of legal matters in which legal aid is possible, that narrows down the circle of citizens who, given their poorer property, could exercise the right to legal assistance, enables a number of abuses of this right, does not offer an effective procedure to monitor the implementation of the law, greatly restricts the role of civil society organisations in providing legal assistance, which, in the future, warns the Public Advocate. I think it is also necessary to say to this occasion which, as far as we know, sent a special letter and a warning to the Government that, as I said, this law narrows down the right of citizens to receive free legal assistance and should say that the number of users who used legal aid through associations was 200 times the number of users of free attorneys who were set up by the bar, so it seems to us at the SDP club that we should also take account of it. What is particularly significant is what we warn from the club, which is that in the last month, it has actually become white that the profession itself has very large remarks which, in fact, when it analyzed this bill, has identified a series of shortcomings and indeterminates that cannot actually be corrected according to their claim. Among other things, the Government has been somewhere for two years in the process of adopting a proposal for this Law, and it should be said that during these, during this whole period, the Government would say I did not even bother to establish all relevant indicators, data on which it would then be able to speak about projections of some future number of users and of course the costs that the state would have. The minister has previously said among other things that it is predicted that the number of users will be reduced in the future. I claim on behalf of the SDP club that this will be only because of a long-term procedure which will be able to achieve the right to receive the instruction, i.e. that free legal aid. What is particularly eye-stamping is that there is absolutely no indication of what kind of legal aid citizens are most talking about, so in this way it is not at all processed through this proposal, so there is no analysis of the case categories, user types, success, costs, I say, and the type of cases for which citizens have asked for help. I've already said that the proposal is highly bureaucratic and that's what everyone agrees with. I must say, to remind you, if you have read the law in order for someone to exercise their right to free legal aid, they will first have to know, to assume that the state will spend enough money on the promotion that there is some kind of office in the county, so in every county that a citizen will be able to address. So whoever gets to that office will then tell him what he has to do to get back to that office and then start the process of verifying everything he has and exercising his right to the instruction. Namely, the citizen will have to obtain tax administration certificates for himself and for all household members, possibly and a confirmation of the competent social care centre. So again after that, come to the county administration office, fill out a whole series of forms, wait for a decision of the office that can, of course, depend on whether the office currently has any instructions at all, i.e. the funds for that month. If he is not satisfied with the decision he will then be able to make a complaint, and then when he finally gets that issued manual that can, by the way, read only one store then from either that person in the office or I in some way need to know who to address and who to whom he can ultimately give the right to legal aid. And I repeat, if you've been referring to this very high bureaucratic, long-term process of exercising the right to free legal aid, then a large majority of our citizens will simply give up their right to free legal aid and will ultimately remain with other citizens. Furthermore, what is being warned is a question of possible abuse and corruption. In fact, I said earlier, when a citizen gets a reference, the citizen chooses the provider himself, but in some way you expect that he or she will ask in that office who to turn to now, forgive the experience we have and so far can make us say that corruption can happen, that there is a list there in the drawer of someone he prefers for certain reasons. Go on. This proposal foresees for us at the SDP club totally irrational costs that we don't use properly. In fact, the proposal provides that, in 2008, in fact, citizens are not yet beginning to use the right to legal aid. And that needs to be said out loud and clear. However, the budget spending of over 5 million kunas is foreseen during that period without any of these funds going directly to specific users or legal aid providers. In global terms, when we look at what is actually going to be spent on this money that has been allocated since the following year, then I repeat, it will be the least intended legal aid, and it will actually serve to form in the counties an office that will employ a number of civil servants who will be there to turn to them, to send them to other offices to obtain tax documents, property data, etc. Therefore, considering at the club that this proposal is precisely from the fact that most of the appropriations will not be used for free legal aid at all, we estimate that only another state administration is being created. Finally, we would also like to warn, one part of this law, in fact, that law is in effect under the proposal on 1 January 2008, with certain, but citizens under this law will be able to achieve free legal aid from 1 January 2009. How, in the meantime, a legal void is created, or it is completely unclear who will, for example, be created. provide citizens with free legal assistance throughout 2008. This law doesn't show, it's become unclear. And if nothing else since next year, the majority of citizens will not be able to exercise their right to free legal aid. And if this law is passed, we are assessing at the SDP club that this achievement will be less possible than it is now. Moreover, given that this law was in fact one of the conditions under the negotiations in Chapter XXIII, and as far as we know, these negotiations have not yet begun to feel that it would be most appropriate for the government to actually withdraw this proposal. We think there are too many reasons and there is also the interest of all those who are interested in functioning this law in the right way, so to agree further. And nothing terrible will happen if this bill is prepared for a new assembly of parliaments. I repeat, the SDP club does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96599	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. HDZ representative club respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. He's gone. They lose right to the word clubs. PGS, SBH and MDS representatives' club, respected representative Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96600	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister! Here, therefore, allow me to report on behalf of the regional parties PGS, SBH and MDS to the debate of this law. We won't support this law... Seriously. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Nothing came, because we don't think this law will solve the basic questions that the law itself will ask. In fact, this law states that the solutions provided for by this law will enable the consistent application of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which governs the right to access to court and guarantees equality before all courts. I don't think that's going to happen, unfortunately, but it's going to happen exactly the opposite. And we agree with those who claim that the area of free legal aid actually narrows down dangerously, as well as the category of people who will be able to get it. I don't think that's really allowed. We've heard this problem before by the civil defender Jurica Malcic. Since his arrival in the current post, he has warned that the exercise of fundamental constitutional rights to access to court and equality under the laws of the poor and socially endangered citizens has been made difficult, sometimes disabled, and that this law will not be resolved until the end. What we would particularly like to warn is that this law has a restrictive effect on the work of associations that have provided such legal assistance in spite of legal shortcomings, and often these associations have been hit by the bar that reported them. So these associations often had to pay fines and so forth. We are told in the data that in 2005, the state approved a thousand cases of free representation of citizens, and only a little more than 3,000 court cases were released from the payment of court costs. However, in the same year, in 2005, NGOs received several hundred, thousands of requests from citizens for free legal aid. So far, some 200,000 people have reported annually to NGOs in Croatia with a request for some kind of legal advice, which means that about so many people cannot pay for a lawyer. Under this proposed law, the right to free legal aid will be granted only to citizens whose monthly incomes do not exceed 2 000 kuna. And while poorer citizens in search of legal aid so far could knock on the door some of the NGOs or trade unions under the new law could become the exclusive right of lawyers whose services are expensive for those deeper pockets and let alone the poor. Another reason why we will not support this law and what our club means by regional parties as early as May 23, 2007 was referred to the parliamentary procedure of the Bill on Free Legal Assistance. The law is now on the 26th place of the agenda we are discussing and therefore we will not discuss it, we are discussing the Law on Legal Assistance. We have therefore referred the Law on Free Legal Assistance and, in order to speed up the debate on free legal aid, on legal aid in the parliamentary procedure, we have actually referred the first version of this law, the 2005 law, the law that was created in the same workshop that made this law. We simply copied it and directed it into a parliamentary procedure, and in our opinion that first version of the law was much better than this one. In our view, therefore, it is one of the essential conditions for achieving free legal assistance so that the more the associations and NGOs engage. This final bill now provides for several or many restrictions for the work of these associations which the first version did not have, so let me now compare these two laws, i.e. Articles that speak about free legal aid providers. Thus, for example, Article 39 of the final version of this law, which the Government proposes, states that the article 1 states: "Legal assistance under the provisions of this law is provided by lawyers.". So they have the primary right to provide legal assistance. And in that first version of the law in Article 40, it said: "Free legal aid under the provisions of this law can be provided by lawyers and associations registered to provide legal assistance.". So in that first sentence, according to the old version, associations and lawyers were even. The new law in paragraph 2 speaks of associations. Associations may provide, therefore, legal assistance if they meet the conditions laid down in this law and are entered in the register of associations providing legal assistance. Now there's another problem. In that first version of the law, it reads: "The associations can provide free legal assistance if they ensure that they carry out free legal assistance by a person who has a degree in law study, has passed a state-run examination, a second appropriate exam or a scientific call.". The new article also adds: So, if it also provides evidence of the payment of insurance against the damage done to the party by providing legal assistance of 50% of the provision of the prescribed Law on Attorneyship. What association will be able to meet this condition? Few of them. By writing in the first version of the law, therefore, in the new version, the association must provide means of insurance in the event of an unfulfilled business or of a job that is not done in order to write in the old law in Article 45: "The persons asking for free legal assistance from the association or the legal clinic sign a statement obliging them not to seek compensation for possible damages.". So again, we impose on the associations of certain obligations that we know in advance that the vast majority of them will not be able to do so and I have already mentioned that almost 200 thousand citizens are annually addressing associations for some of the forms of legal aid. In addition, as regards the application for registration in Article 44, it reads: "The association registered to carry out the legal assistance activities and which fulfils the conditions laid down in this law is entered in the register of free legal aid providers managed by the Ministry of Justice's tasks.". And in the new Article 43: "The application for registration in the register shall be subject to the statute of association, the solutions concerning entry into the register of associations, the contract of work or other cooperation contract of a person who, under the provisions of this law, can provide legal assistance to the association and a copy of the policy insurance against liability for damages.". So, associations are set up by some conditions that they can't meet, they actually want to get kicked out of this job, jobs that have been doing well and well all these years. So, and that's the main reason why our club advocates won't support this law. And we agree with those that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure, that it is not good, so it is now that it is now at the end of the work of this Parliament that we are discussing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96601	Thank you. The club of representatives of the HNS respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96602	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State. We have before us a law that has come for good encouragement. Unfortunately, we didn't realize this incentivise ourselves, it wasn't our government that understood it itself, but it had to be warned by the Council of Europe that this law was one of the Bench marks, so from the moments when our ability to open a new chapter in the negotiations was estimated. We got it on the last day of the session with that note that it's one of the conditions and we got it built so whether to say it in an inappropriately bad way or say it the wrong way. This is a law dealing with the impediment of the part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who cannot pay expensive lawyers, the refusal to come near the court at all. It would be good if the government, regardless of the fact that this is something that we have to do by order from the north, if the government gave up this law because this law will pass: a) a lot of damage, b) be subject to changes within a very fast period, and it is generally significant changes and it is harder to do than to make a new draft law. There are several reasons for this attitude of the Croatian People's Party club. We heard here that 200 thousand people asked for help in Croatia, that kind of assistance from associations, existing associations that provided them as they knew and how they could. If it were not 200 thousand but if only 200 people in Croatia had asked for such assistance that they could not receive tomorrow under this law, it would be terrible. And if it's 200 grand, it's not a big deal, it actually crosses the limits of disaster. What is unacceptable in this law? First of all, the limitation of the scope of the legal steps and the legal moves that this legal aid can receive, such organised legal assistance at all. It is no accident that the law is not called as originally said, the Law on Free Legal Assistance. This means that free legal aid is abolished. Legal aid remains paid by the state, will be paid to those who meet all of these conditions to give it in, and organisations such as civil society associations or trade unions that have so far provided their members with really free legal aid for which people paid membership fees in those associations or trade unions will be disabled. In fact, it's possible that if the state's attorney does something like that against them, he's going to initiate a process of dispensation, right? It is incomprehensible that after 16 years, 17 years of democracy in Croatia, we prescribe that a citizen to his human rights guaranteed not only by the Croatian Constitution but also by all European acts can only come through the state office. So there is no direct exercise of human rights. Address the state, the state will assess whether you have the right to do so or not. Article 10 sets out the speed to which this can be done. Keeping in mind how much HITROReza and even a quick approach to economic operators we've talked about here, it's amazing when you read paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. the way a man can come up with a famous manual to get legal help. This way is so long-lasting that most likely this dispute of his that he designed, which he entered, entered, entered, which was imposed on him, does not matter how he entered it, so this dispute will either become groundless or it will suffer significant damage. And it is convenient in the whole situation that the law foresees what happens if someone unfairly over the criteria or in some strange way comes to such legal aid is obliged to make up for it. What happens if the one who gives legal aid does it in a bad way? There's insurance policy, insurance will pay for it. And what happens if the state makes a mistake and doesn't allow its citizens to exercise their constitutional right not to speak legal aid for free, so the one that the state will pay for anything and he suffers a great deal of damage. What's going on in that situation? That's not what the law predicts. So the state can't be guilty however it turns. Article 9 regulates the exemption from the scope of this legal aid and says that exceptional legal aid can be granted in the case of a cause of justice. This case, the Court decides on this case in a special procedure that is even more complex than the previous case. So a man would have to get legal help to exercise his right to justice. The law is obviously not meant to work. Articles 15 to 20 regulate the property censorship for the first time. For the first time, the property censorship in this way is regulated in Croatian laws and interestingly, comes from those who have been opposing the property censorship as a censor of the entire property all the time. Now that there's a poor woman who's supposed to get legal help, there's now an asset censorship. On the side of the fact that Article 15 provides for income per household member, it seems to me 2,300,00 kuna above which free legal aid cannot be obtained. Now imagine two pensioners with 4,650,00 kuna in which they can pay a lawyer. On the other hand, the fact that the censors are independent, but these pensioners, these two pensioners have a 120-square apartment in the centre of Zagreb. What does this law say? He says you have a million-euro property, you can't get free legal aid, sell that property. When you sell that property and then you have money, you don't need free legal help, then pay your lawyer I don't know which one, but from the fancy Zagreb lawyers and you'll get a top favor without a problem. In Article 27, there are as many as 13 points in which a man seeking legal aid is required, which should be on the legal aid manual. That's all the data a man needs legal help for. For example, the form and scope of the legal aid granted. A man has to suggest what kind of procedure this is, the court that's involved, so he doesn't know that. If he knew, the whole thing wouldn't be necessary. Total costs of legal aid provided, no one can know them in advance, can only assume. The whole thing is meant to never work again. What the government does even irritates is not bad behavior. There are good and bad procedures, every government has such and such procedures. What irritates is the arrogance of the government. This arrogance of the authorities is seen in Article 36. Users shall not use legal assistance for reasons of reasonable conduct of the procedure. It is about cases where applicants’ expectations are clearly disproportionate to the real prospects of success. Therefore, the applicant for legal aid, the socially endangered person by definition must know, must be sufficiently legally educated that his requirements are not realistic in this case. That he's a bit hanged especially if he's looking for justice which by definition he's hanged. Which has justice to seek and is poor. So he's hanged and when he's hanged then he'll get that legal aid back. So if a man makes a mistake in his assessment he'll pay for it. If the state makes a mistake in its assessment, my God, it happened to her. So all in all, it's obvious that this is the law that needs to be passed. The law of this name or the like. Not because of the pressure of the Council of Europe which says that this is a prerequisite for opening the chapter on justice but because of the fact that our citizens and we are convinced in the Club of the Croatian People's Party, if such a policy continues, there will be no fewer of them who need that kind of help than more. So let us also enable our citizens to exercise one of their constitutional rights. But a law like this definitely shuts them down. That's why the Croatian People's Party Club will be against him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96603	Thank you. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. He's gone. The club loses its word. U.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s club, the respected representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96604	This should indeed be noted specifically that fellow Kovacevic, Mr. President, has missed an opportunity to speak. ... It's good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we expect this law for a long time, and at the moment when we should have brought it in, we realized that we don't really have enough time to improve, fix and change what we are, obviously, all of us and the legislator of the law, the government, through the Ministry, the subjects of civil society, the unions, and we representatives here in the Croatian Parliament have observed that it is actually a serious problem. That it may present difficulties in exercising the right to free legal aid. And now it's really a big question whether, in this short time, and that practically means by tomorrow, we can vote this law. On the one hand, there is therefore a need for us to continue to bring our legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union and, of course, there is an imperative that by adopting new laws, we do not create even more trouble in our own legislation, especially in legislative practice. And if we need to define ourselves between these two things, I guess we need to find some kind of consent in which we won't have any damage especially to this other one, and at the same time we won't do much damage to this first one. From a debate where I had the opportunity to participate several things have been crystallized as controversial as regards the proposal of this law. First of all, it's an article 5 that was mentioned here. This is therefore the scope or scope of the right to free legal aid to which the state would provide funds and which the state considers to be some kind of minimum that the state, given the current economic situation, is actually able to provide to citizens who cannot provide it for themselves for free legal aid. From conversations we've had in the last few hours, and in the last few weeks and months it's clear that there's a whole series of rights that haven't been covered here. One of the important sets of rights is, of course, family concerns, women concerned. Those who are concerned with a full set of violence and disenfranchisement regarding what we call gender equality either in family relations or in working relationships. And those who fall into the set, a rare set of misdemeanors, laws regulated by breaking legislation. Many people who, with enthusiasm and of course of great interest, approach this view that this form of Article 5 would be too limited and that a much better approach would be if the legislator or legislator did not limit the set of laws in this way than if he recognized what these issues are, what are these problems? Which, Madam Minister, are the most common cases and cases regarding violation of the law where people would need free legal aid. In other words, with those who have so far been providers of free legal aid, civil society actors, associations and trade unions, it was best to have with them a set of emergency rights which the state currently has rationally reason to provide means of protection through the free legal aid mechanism. The time that has passed in the drafting of this proposal and the debates which unfortunately have passed without the need for communication and the need for consensus, which is a set of legal matter in which, at the moment, Croatian citizens who do not have this right on their own means, would be best to provide free legal assistance. It's the first thing that seems important to me to notice. The second point concerns, of course, this complicated system of instructions as regards the fact that it is expensive, so as to establish a proportionately complex and extensive administrative apparatus which should ensure at the same time that control and control methods so as to avoid potential corrupt actions in the action or implementation of that guidance system. That's one level. And the second level, of course, is its complexity for the applicant himself to provide a guide to the one who expects free legal assistance. If someone, if for one legal action that would expect free legal aid, must previously take a whole range of other administrative or administrative actions that are exhausting, which may be more expensive and demanding than this store itself. And if that manual does not imply Madam Ministers getting the right to free legal aid and the next legal action that can proceed from an unfinished process, from an appeal or from any other one then, of course, it is an additional problem in this if I have read well, and you will if I am not able to correct it in that matter. So this is another area where, this is a bill that needs to be fixed where it should be changed. And in particular, here I agree with my colleagues from the HNS who have apostropheed this by introducing an asset censorship mechanism in this legislation in this matter when it would be much more normal and natural to go to the assessment and determination of income, rather than to the assessment of property censorship. Imagine a person, and it's in return environments of thousands who own land and houses but when they're 80 years old, they can't do anything else if they don't let someone use it, if they don't rent it, if they don't rent it. Eventually, some gardens can be arranged. But that possibly a large amount of land that would not allow for free legal aid that would ensure that it was taken as an element for them is simply unreasonable. And, of course, in this case and unfairly. And the state certainly wouldn't want to, produce that kind of effect. It may be this very country, Madam Minister, that is the subject of the dispute. It may be that in the case of this country, people are asking for free legal aid. And we'll charge them as something I can't get them for. And the earth is unworked, nor are they able to do it. Therefore, in this segment of asset censorship, it would be of exceptional benefit, of the utmost importance that it should not be applied in the case of this substance, but rather to apply an income-based payment capacity system rather than an asset-based censorship. If you allow me colleagues and colleagues and Madam Ministers, given this initial dilemma of what to do without harming what is our interest, which is that as soon as possible to create assumptions for the opening of chapters on negotiations with the European Union, and at the same time not to rush into the adoption of a law that we are aware in advance that its key moments are controversial, then it seems to me that it would be better to have in this Chamber, and also beyond it by those who are interested to be agreed to or some of the key provisions of this proposal if possible, such as the question of Article 5, such as the question of articles that regulate the system of instructions and property censors that they are regulated in another phase with another law, and that this law regulates only what is currently possible. If not, if it is not realistic, if we don't do so much, then the SDSS Club proposal will be Madam Ministers that we here, on the basis of consensus in Parliament and unions and different associations, send a message that this matter is in the process of making and that it will be adopted in the first next session of the Parliament after parliamentary elections and that in this way we send a message to European partners that we do not give up our adjustment, moreover, that we support it but that we want this matter to be fully mature and that it does not create unnecessary difficulties that we can have in this respect in our own, domestic justice. And quite at the end, Mr. President. There are some reasons that direct people towards free legal aid. It is implicated here and explicitly stated in some parts that these are the reasons of property nature, i.e. income nature. But there is another reason that is no less important, which is the question of people's trust in those who represent them in legal matter before courts. In some cases, people prefer associations that provide free legal assistance rather than some participants of the legal process in the legal sense of that word. Because in some cases they have more confidence in enthusiasm in, if I may say, ethically attachedness to justice and justice in those than they do in some cases, I apologize, I would not like to generalise, but in a number of people, there is probably an experience of people handling it, especially when it comes to protecting certain categories of citizens in this matter. And for this reason, we should absolutely avoid that the proposal, such as this, provides an opportunity through the mechanism of legal assistance again to a number of people who, with the resources of the state, will again be able to raise doubts about the possibility of good and accessible justice in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96605	Thank you. HSS representative club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Easy, buddy. Go ahead. Take it easy. I know, I don't talk. I can't do it without you, and you can't do it without me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96606	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So the Croatian Peasant Party club cannot support this bill. Not because it believes that the Law on Free Legal Assistance in Croatia is not necessary, but because this Law does not meet those needs that really exist in Croatia. To see all this and the need for such a law, then we must ask ourselves whether citizens in the Republic of Croatia exercise their rights. As representatives of the people, we will make it clear that all citizens do not exercise their rights. And that's true, they don't exercise their rights. Why don't they exercise their rights? Some people don't know what their rights are. Some people because they don't know how to protect their rights. And the third reason why they don't exercise their rights is because they don't have the money to pay for someone who can advise yes, in what way to protect their rights. And these are the reasons that have long since pointed out that Croatia needs free legal aid and the law on free legal aid that would regulate it by reminding me that I mean there in my time until 93, there were office days of courts when citizens could come to courts and get free legal aid and then it came to me that there was no more and the citizens no longer come to courts and can no longer get free legal aid. And now this bill offers a way of using free legal aid, but in a way that I could simply from the aspect of the environment in which I live, describe in one single sentence, which is the famous song "let's go chain and per meadow". Let the chain and a half of meadows go to legal aid, and then when we get the right, when we exercise the right after that we will have nothing to live on, but thank God it's important that the law on the provision of free legal aid is met. It's Madam Minister what's called an asset censorship. Because I live in the middle where people don't have money and have no income, and they have property and that property, by the tax office's assessment, is worth a lot, de facto it's worth nothing to them. It's not worth anything to them because they can't process it, because they don't have income from that property, and they should advocate it for being users of free legal aid. I don't think that can work and at all launch demands for the exercise of that right to provide legal assistance to these people are inexplicable and impossible. Said a colleague before me, filling out demands requires greater knowledge. We need to know what our citizens' education structure is, so let's look at the population list, and we'll see. Can we expect 20% of those who have neither finished nor elementary school to be able to fill out those forms and to find a place where they can get free legal help. Of course I can't. Then, among other things, this law regulates the issue of legal aid for the sake of justice. Now we have the article 10, which says it will stop with the procedure. It'll stop with the procedure. Is this in the function of updating courts and resolving court proceedings more quickly? Obviously not. Because if he stops the procedure, he stops for a solution right to this legal aid for a reason of justice, there will be a pile of cases, and of course we have an unscheduled judiciary again. Another paradox, Madam Minister, I think you should be particularly interested in this, is in the last paragraph of Article 10, which says: "These costs are predominant from the court's resources, and are finally borne from the budget funds intended for legal aid". Madam Minister, our courts don't have the money to send postal shipments. Believe me, because as deputy director, I've been telling my delivery officers to pick up mail in courts and that they're delivering court mail to speed up procedures. Because not giving up the letter doesn't solve the procedure, the procedure stands. Now we're wondering where the funds are going to come from to take these costs. And finally, in order not to further explain, because there is a very well-designed sense of this law, I would like to refer only to this argument that says: the consequences of the law being passed and the Proposer says: The adoption of the Law on the exercise of the right to legal aid will primarily enable citizens of weaker property opportunities to obtain easier legal assistance in cases where aid is needed to facilitate and facilitate their rights, i.e. fulfil their obligations. This argument is considered cynical, we consider it cynical precisely from what we have explained that these are the poorest categories of the population will not be able to use their right to free legal assistance, but for comfort I can re-emphasise just to sing "let's go chain and per meadow" and for these reasons Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Peasant Party Club will not support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96607	With the addition of "I'm fine, I hope better, and I'm going into it and I'm sleeping." Matija Antun Relković, this one from Davor,...... So legal aid is provided by those who are not educated for legal aid. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As physicians should be given, those who are not doctors should provide medical attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96608	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96609	The club of representatives of HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96610	Dear Mr. President, dear ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. At the end of our first parliamentary term, at the end of the fourth year in this House, something really in the name of this law is not clear to me. So we have before us the Law on the exercise of the right to legal aid. When I think about it a little bit deeper, maybe the next law will be the law on the exercise of the right to eat, so it'll be the law on the exercise of the right to sleep, and maybe the law on the exercise of the right to drive, so I don't know what else. I think it's clear to everyone in this country that if I have money that I have the right to pay for a lawyer, that I will exercise the right to legal aid, of course with an uncertain outcome, but I will exercise that right. However, I think that Croatian society has sought some other law, asked for the law on free legal aid and against such a formulation of the law, against this particular name, but also the content, was also determined by the Ombudsman, there were also a number of civil society associations and I cannot believe that the promoter can insist on the intention that he alone is right and that it is not discussed again. I am a witness to a system that works in unions, in Croatia where union lawyers provide legal assistance through legal advice and through representation and it is free of charge for the user and their work is paid from membership fees. Why can't other associations do that? Isn't this a system that needs to be expanded, isn't it a product of social dialogue, and today we have a decision on determining the day of social dialogue in the Republic of Croatia? Isn't that a product of social dialogue to be promoted? Why can't the citizens of Croatia have a choice, but in the end if they want quality legal protection they have to sell property? Why do they have no other choice, that, on behalf of some membership, some memberships can exercise the right to free legal aid. Free legal aid for us in Croatia to a pensioner party does not mean that it must be burdened by the state budget. Society can be organized differently and my experiences regarding and the Italian state are completely different. There are three categories of legal aid. There's free legal aid, there's so-called. the social service stimulated by the state, therefore social for a relatively low price that is accessible to all I get a quality service, I get legal assistance and there is a commercial one, who can pay more normally and more rights, because he finds such a skilled lawyer. So, what we are proposing is the further awakening of the administration, a very expensive system, a set of state budgets, and we have still many items that could have priorities over this expensive system and do not reflect the existing legal practice that is good for providing legal assistance through civil society associations because to remind you of more than 300 thousand such legal aid was realised in 2006. So, what we in our party have analysed and concluded is that this Law cannot be corrected by any more amendments, that it is best that the Proposer of the Law withdraws it, that this has nothing to do with free legal aid and that the Croatian party of pensioners cannot support and will not vote in favour of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96611	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. It's time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. Justice Minister Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96612	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I am extremely sorry that most of the club representatives here did not support this law by claiming that it brings something worse than what is existing. I honestly don't understand or understand something wrong how it can be worse to adopt this law, cause worse conditions than legal aid to exist. Why? On the contrary, I claim that the adoption of this Law will make a improvement for Croatian citizens. Why? Because the existing legal aid system for which some here today prove to be excellent and does not need anything else, so the legal aid system where we have legal assistance based on the specific laws in which you apply Article 1. The final proposal says it will not be touched, so legal aid under special laws remains fully as it is. I must also say that I have received amendments to the HDZ Club, and to Tomljanović, who are accepted in any part of this Act, and it is in fact amendments that explain the situation, which is that in that existing state of legal assistance by civil society is not touched in any part of this Act, and then it is said in this amendment in order to clarify that the legal aid provider of the association can, in accordance with its acts, provide legal assistance and persons without the instruction, but in that case, there is no right to compensate for the costs referred to in Article 52, which means that even outside the censorship, outside of the property limit and beyond the scope laid down in Article 5, which is also extended to the amendment that is accepted here, the associations can provide legal assistance as well as this so far, but they will cover their costs from some other sources as well as so far as from donations or by special laws, where, until now, the national strategies are also, in particular, in particular, in terms of the national and in terms of violence in terms of violence in terms of the year, and in which are intended to be able to be able to carry one of violence. I therefore do not understand how it can be worse that in the existing state of legal aid, in the existing state beyond the scope of this Law providing legal assistance under specific laws where it is around 4 million kunas can be worse if 30 million kuna is additionally provided to citizens of a weaker property state to exercise the right to legal aid. We also can't understand why it would be better not to pass any law, but to pass a law that will have full implementation in 2009, and in 2008, the system will be set up, and during that time everything will work as it has so far worked. So it will be all the same, and the perspective of full help implementation is expected in 2009. If we don't pass this law we won't be able to prepare in 2008 and the situation will remain worse than it is. In relation to the scope of legal aid, I must say that the first time this Act is adopted systematically gives the legal framework to legal aid organisations, of course by asking for certain legal qualifications and by providing quality legal assistance to users of legal aid, because if the State directs someone, it must guarantee to a provider that they will receive quality assistance and that this quality will be guaranteed to them. In relation to scope, the amendment of Agent Tomljanovic is also accepted and two points are then added in Article 5 that legal assistance can therefore be provided in infringements in infringements conducted under the Law on the Protection against Family Violence against Persons Harassed by Infringements as well as in criminal proceedings against persons damaged by criminal offences. Although this was included in the current text, this principle is clearer. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96613	An individual debate. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96614	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! This is one example of the law that shows that it is not good at the end of the term of office anyway to try to get out of the drawer all that is left to bring. Because, you know, it's hard to accept the bill and the final bill and discuss it when it's eclectic, unconstitutional, when it's in one part associative or not socially sensitive. And thirdly, when he's unfair with all this bureaucratic stuff and these other questions that his colleagues were talking about. I would like to remind you colleagues that we in our Constitution have a provision of Article 26. The Constitution that says: All citizens of the Republic of Croatia and foreigners are equal in front of courts and bodies with public authority. How is it possible to comply with the constitutional provision and from Articles 44 to 51, it seems to me to exclude actual application until we enter the European Union because, behold, the parties cannot use it if they are with us... You let me, I know what you've turned off, in the transitional finale read it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And excluded because they have no registered residence and residence in the Republic of Croatia etc. But he'll find himself here. The second question that follows is this. As it is possible to say that this law will not apply in Article 69 of points (a), (b) and (c) of Article 5(1), point 7 refers to legal assistance to workers who are in labour disputes and unemployed workers who are to be employed. So the question of respected colleagues is raised and will not apply until 2010 at the latest. So the question is, who are we going to give legal aid to if we don't? Is it in point 10 that when it comes to disputes before the Commercial Courts, and we have passed the Act on the takeover of companies in which Article 49 explicitly states: If the tenderer does not make an offer to take over under the terms and conditions laid down in this Act, any sharer of the target company may, through the local competent Commercial Court, require the obligation to enter into a contract and... The stock. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And from what it's going to be a small stockholder who bought for several thousand kunas of HT or INA shares, etc., looking for a solution like this. Or, for example, if you take point 9 which is very clear, it is, of course, an executive procedure for which legal aid can be granted under the provisions of this law. So now a man really wonders, what's the point of the law? Who does the law apply to? Other problems are injustice. Look! If the law is said to be of course when it comes to legal aid, property will not be counted on this, this and not to mention, look at article 16, and you will see a lot of things, from support for care, disability, scholarships, etc., and then, of course, under the property will be considered the income on which taxes are paid, etc. Well, in the sense of this law, they're not going to pay now, they're going to consider the property of the apartment, the houses, the items of a colleague and a colleague, but the young workers who have the first job, they might pay taxes on part of the income, but when they pay rent, etc., and rent an apartment they don't have, it's much, much less than something else. So where's the... Justice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now let's go for an extra answer. Look! Something that startled me. Our associations, especially those specialising in certain areas, such as trade unions, employers' associations, chambers, etc., and not to mention those dealing with the protection of human rights and freedoms, will have to be further registered or registered in order to provide legal assistance. And we could have simply prescribed, so these associations can continue to provide legal assistance but must have a person who meets the requirements. Now, what's that? What conditions? That's what another degree of injustice shows. Now look at the wonders. It says legal aid can be provided by lawyers. In order for someone to be a lawyer, they have an obligation to pass a judicial exam. And then at 42, they say next. Persons providing legal assistance in associations shall undergo a state expert examination under the provisions of the Law on civil servants and tenants. Oh, look, please, it's one-third of the legal exam. So where is it now, what are the qualifications that are qualified to do that? Because this one will know one part of the administrative procedure, they'll know a little bit about constitutional law, but about protecting property rights, about protecting against criminal, criminal... So now the question really is, who needs all this? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what do you need it for? I took these examples on purpose to show that it makes no sense under this law or to discuss it, let alone bring it, in a text like this. The second question is what would be necessary for Croatia to get a law on free legal aid as soon as possible, which would certainly seek to comply with the practice of the European Union and the legislation of the European Union, but also take some good solutions from the existing law, with the fact that they are the very special, specialised cases when specific laws apply in such matters, when it comes to the general clause. Now an additional question. Look, if you look at all our clubs, more or less, except the HDZ club didn't have time to show up because it didn't answer, they said they were against this law. Of course, there will now be possible interpretations that this is a law that does not require a qualified majority. And at the same time in Article 82 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The constitution is said to be passed by the vast majority of all MPs by laws implementing human rights and freedoms. And is it the right, human right and freedom as it says in the Constitution, that everyone has the right to have equal status and standing before courts, in state bodies and administrative organisations that have powers? Well, it is. That's why this bill needs to be secured by a half-breeding majority. In such a situation, the question is whether it makes sense. Of course, this debate may be instructive for a few of us who are present here. It is a shame that it is not until noon because then most MPs would be and that it is announced in advance that there will be a debate on this law and now it would be full of halls, believe me, I have to tell you this for a simple reason because it is actually a very specific form of creating legal instruments to help people protect and achieve the protection of human rights and freedoms and above all in economic, social and cultural and political freedoms. ... And we need to take care of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will also support my colleague Tomljanovic with his amendment, although I personally do not think it is necessary to indicate that, in particular, family-related and domestic violence. For the simple reason it should be extended in a way that will end up being a misdemeanor before the court. Although... And if it opens then it should open up in the proceedings before the police and other governing bodies related to domestic violence, because you also know that unfortunately there have been criminal acts of domestic violence in our family for years but the police have not acted until we have declared it a criminal offence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, if we open a misdemeanor here in court then you'll have a situation in court but what's crucial is that you protect the weaker side and it's actually in front of the police and the bodies that will collect evidence... Doesn't do it to the police to harass the one who's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] but to be able to set up what rights he's wronged that he can bring it to the police because he can't bring it out... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, when you add all together on several of these examples, there could be a number of other things about this part of income tax, it is again a "miracle of Jesus" that the exemption from income tax will be prescribed by the Minister of Justice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, where's that now? I guess that's the Minister of Finance's jurisdiction, etc. But I'm just listing a few of those things that are... , which show that this law is not mature for adoption and no matter how much we want to agree on as many laws as possible with the European Union, etc. I think it would be far better if this debate hadn't happened under such conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I believe there will be enough wisdom to continue voting on this bill tomorrow, because it would be even worse if it were to vote on this law and it didn't pass. And the worst thing that could happen is that in order to protect the Constitution of protected rights and freedom that law is freed if it is passed... in the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That would be very bad. And I'm really in that context right now, please, I recommend that, in fact, the Proposer has enough understanding. Let him listen to this debate and let this debate remain the next assembly of the Assembly, in fact, as an additional basis for the preparation of a quality law that will be adopted and adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96615	Why next? So we can continue this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96616	Mr. President, you've announced that we're finishing tomorrow, which is why I'm doing nothing. Otherwise, if you say we keep going, I'm in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96617	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. And there is still the only respected representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96618	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, to join, in fact, a colleague of Arlovic who was speaking in the same spirit in which I put my debate together at the beginning of this session when it was supposed to be on the agenda. In the civilized world in which we live, we will all agree from the very beginning, people have agreed to be born free and equal regardless of being born as kings, kings, merchants, or peasants. At the same time, people agreed that they would all be equal before the law regardless of their origin or property. 250 years after these events, the Republic of Croatia passed a law that should regulate these civilizational principles legally. However, the second reading of the law has completely missed its purpose and allowed exactly the opposite of things, or the law may have been designed for law offices and at least thought of citizens or those poor citizens because, as at the time of the French Sun King, the right in the Republic of Croatia in the 21st century, only those who are rich will have them. This bill is bad, above all, because it restricts citizens of poorer property in obtaining adequate and timely legal assistance and is contrary to the constitutional principle of equal access to courts. We can also say that the process of making and adopting this law is only seemingly transparent and that the law of such content will create assumptions for the establishment of a monopoly of lawyers and that it will ultimately mean the inability to obtain legal aid which, because of the poor property situation, cannot be paid. This may be the saddest thing in this whole story is the fact that from numerous objections to the content and text of the bill's first reading, only the simplest change has come, such as clarifications and more precise definitions, until the real problem of this bill has been touched. In other words, they've completely ignored each other. Of all these things, I would especially point out the following four things. Under one narrow circle of legal matters, i.e. the type of cases and disputes in which legal aid may be granted which discriminates against citizens because they will have to pay legal protection in other types of cases. This creates conjecture for the creation of a monopoly of lawyers. Article 5 of the Law provides that legal aid may be granted to legal matters, i.e. types of cases and disputes. However, the circle of these legal cases is too narrow and in all other legal matters legal assistance is provided precisely by lawyers, i.e. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Lawyership, which means that citizens will be forced to pay according to their legal fees. Citizens of poor property should not be limited to which types of cases will be subject to legal protection on the cost of the State, as that requires their constitutionally guaranteed right to access courts and other bodies before which they have their rights. They must be subject to free legal assistance in all cases and legal matters and must not be restricted by the State. For example, a citizen of poor property demands legal aid for a legal matter for which aid cannot be obtained under the provisions of this law. He'll be referred to a lawyer who won't be able to pay a legal reward in a row he won't get legal protection. Secondly, it narrows down the circle of citizens who, in view of their poor property, could be entitled to legal aid and abuses are possible in particular in cases of legal aid in the event of justice. The legislator has unclearly prescribed the maximum income of a household in which a person who has requested legal assistance lives. Also, too much space has been left for the discretionary judgments of the competent authorities and abuse due to the fact that most of the property opportunities will not be verified at all because the competent authorities are obviously insufficient for this team. Legal assistance for reasons of justice will also significantly burden the work of courts, and it is not a fact that court proceedings are too long anyway. Example: Legal assistance under this law will not be possible for the mother of two students living in a rented apartment and having a monthly income of an example for the sake of 4 thousand kuna. Of these incomes, he pays the rent of a thousand kuna a month. Directors of 800 kuna per month, and from the rest of the amount they must feed themselves, children and pay them for their education or the minimum necessary for that. What resources will cover the cost of a lawyer's reward? On the other hand, a shareholder in a company that does not have a permanent income but makes a good living on the capital market could request the protection of his rights through the Institute of Free Legal Assistance because he may not present his real estate situation and at the same time the competent authority does not verify it. Thirdly, the procedures prescribed and the system of supervision of law enforcement are ineffective, long-term and will not lead to an adequate solution to the problem of those citizens who do not have money for legal rewards and other costs. As for the role of the associations, the role of the associations in providing legal assistance is practically minorized regardless of the amendment you said you would read from your colleague Tomljanović earlier. And it seems to ignore exactly the culture of civic action for the common good and respect for human rights. Citizens will remain suspended because associations have so far provided legal assistance in more than 100,000 cases. In particular, individual associations have been invited to participate in the draft law but no systematic review of legal matters or cases in which the associations have provided legal assistance to date. In early 2005, the task force stopped working, and the draft law on then free legal aid was published on the Justice Ministry's website. Where he stood for two years. However, the comments were never published. The name, also the associations requested and delivery of the bill, however they did not receive it. The name of the law has been changed in the meantime to the Law on the exercise of the right to legal aid. And the comments of the associations that were members of the Working Party on the drafting of the law of the second name have not been accepted. The apparent transparency and demining of associations are particularly visible in the proposal, the proposal provides for their action in a significantly narrowed segment as advisory assistance and assistance to administrative bodies. At the same time, the possibility of any relevant action and action before judicial authorities shall be left out where it decides, to the greatest extent, on the legal and civil nature obligations and on human rights in the broadest sense. The role and ability of citizens' associations to act in terms of monitoring legal procedures has also been fully left out, with a view to detecting human rights issues. For example in hospitals, criminal and correctional institutions, social care institutions and the like. For associations it is a very important segment of legal assistance. Such a legislative proposal will close many organisations that restrict the provision of legal assistance to citizens while at the same time making it impossible for citizens to obtain this assistance from the state because of the tight circle of disputes they are concerned with and the inaccurate property criteria. And when realistically looking at the state's financial legal aid issues, with all the restrictions set out in this proposal, it turns out that for free legal assistance to the most socially vulnerable state within three years, it is less than one kilometer of highway. The only moral thing left for this government is a fairer bill and withdrawing it from this procedure and re-shaping the task force and, as counterpart Arlovic said, leaving it for the next term.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-04-0.u96619	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Now let's go to another point, complementary to this one. - Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2006. Article 6 is replaced by the following: The law on the execution of prison sentences was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. State Secretary of Justice Snjezana Bagic will further explain the report's proposal. Here you go.
