ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82277	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Today we are discussing the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Courts. The court law came into force in December 2005. This Law lays down a thorough structure, a detour and an actual jurisdiction of the courts, if it is not determined by other law, the internal structure of courts, the internal structure of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the conditions for the appointment and resolution of judges, judges and presidents of courts, their rights and duties, the protection of persons and property of judicial authorities. During the half-year application of this Act, the need to amend or supplement certain provisions has been shown in practice in order to address the difficulties in applying them. In fact, one of the doubts has been raised as Article 97 of the Law stipulates that judges are required to submit to the Ministry of Justice a report on their assets, permanent incomes, property of the spouse and underage children within 30 days of their entry into service. So they were introduced so-called. Immigrants and judges with an obligation to submit a report on the assets, i.e. during the year in which the change took place, after the cease-resistance of their duties. It follows from that provision that this provision applies only to newly appointed judges for the reason that the principle of discipline of the article states that judges are mandatory within 30 days of the entry into force of the law and that they are obliged to do so within 3 months of the entry into force of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Law on Courts is prescribed that the presidents of the courts are members of the Judicial Council, however, the Judicial Council has already been elected under the provisions of the law, the old Law on Courts, which ceased to apply by way of a new Law in 2005 and those judicial councils were appointed and established for a term of office of 4 years. Under the provisions of the Law, the presidents were not their members and there was a question about how the presidents of the courts, which is their right under the new law to work in the judicial councils. In order to remove these doubts, it is proposed to prescribe in transitional provisions that the new Judges Council is required to be established in accordance with the provisions of Article 39. The law, within 4 months of the date of entry into force of this Act, has established that the establishment of new judicial councils elected pursuant to this Act shall end the term of office of the former elected Judicial Councils. The amendment of Article 102 determines, paragraph 3., the possibility of a judge being able to be temporarily referred to to work in a second court of the same degree and up to 50 km from the court in which he acts on his duty at the request of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia for a maximum period of 2 years. According to the Court’s analysis of the work of the courts by the number of judges in each court, according to the number of cases received, certain courts have been found to be overloaded in relation to the number of cases received, and that there is a surplus of judges in some courts compared to the number of cases received. Of course, according to the law, there is a possibility that cases with several loads of courts may be dislocated to courts which are less burdened, but that means additional costs, this means additional to the party's burden to go to another court, and it is therefore estimated that due to the even burden of judges, this decision was necessary to amend this decision by the number of cases. Judges could have been sent to work in another court and boredom, but with their express consent. Since there is no possibility under the law, because the judge appointed after 5 years on permanent duty to a court and to him there cannot stop that judicial duty except by the law of the intended conditions, that is to say, the court's suspension has shown the need for possible transfer to another court and without consent, of course, and upon the decision of the President of the Supreme Court. Why 50 kilometers? We have accepted the provisions of the Labour Act which thus speaks for other workers and employees that up to 50 kilometers may be referred to work without consent and this decision is also placed in the jurisdiction of the President of the Supreme Court for the reason that the President, which is followed by the Supreme Court's resolution and effectiveness of the case, follows the work of the courts in the part of the trial. Therefore, out of the jurisdiction of the President of the County Court, it is placed in the jurisdiction of the President of the Supreme Court to monitor the case more uniformly. It has also been shown that the deadline of 6 months, further resolved by these amendments and by additions that the 6-month deadline on which the Minister of Justice may be the longest mandated by a certain judge to act as judge in practice is too short. It is about situations where the President of the Court ceases to act on his duty and it is necessary to carry out the procedure for the appointment of a new president. As the whole appointing process, advertising, obtaining the opinion of the Judicial Council is rarely longer than 6 months, it is estimated that it is intended to delete that deadline. The proposed amendments also amend the provisions laying down the reasons when the President of the Court may be relieved of his duties. In particular, Article 114 sets out the reasons for diluting the President of the Court. As a special reason for the resolution of the President of the Court, it has been established when the judicial administration's conduct of the proceedings has established the illegalities and irregularities that damage the regular and proper conduct of the cases and the functioning of the court. These amendments have introduced a newspaper that the Minister of Justice may relieve the President of the Court of Justice of his duties when the President of the Court of Justice has done harm to the reputation of the court or to the judicial office in another way, with a written statement by the President of the Court and in the case where he is temporarily away from the conduct of his judicial duties. Of course, this is all about the code of honor. Here, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Courts. It is about minor changes, mainly those which have shown doubts in their application in this practice since December 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82278	Thank you. The Justice Committee, the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82279	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the 51st session held on 23 January 2007, the Croatian Judicial Committee discussed the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competences referred to in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the proposing representative referred to the differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law. A proposal has been adopted to temporarily refer the judge to another court for a maximum period of two years. Taxation shall list the reasons for the dissuasion from the duties of the President of the Court. Since the Presidents of the Courts are members of the Judicial Council, the duties of the Council shall be laid down within 4 months. In the debate, the committee members supported the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, as regards the provision that the judge may be temporarily referred to work and without his consent in the second court of the same degree up to 50 km away from the court in which he is acting, for a maximum period of 2 years. It is explained that the applicant's intensity at a distance of 50km refers to the area of a county court. After the discussion of the Committee on Justice unanimously with 8 votes in favour, he proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82280	Thank you. The Constitution Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82281	Mr. President, Madam Minister, assistants, colleagues and colleagues! The minister herself said that these are minor amendments to the Law on Courts, and indeed after these amendments nothing of particular importance will change. It is true that the current statement of the property card provision only obliges newly appointed judges to submit property cards within 30 days of their entry into service, indicating the property they own, as they have come to it. That is why it was necessary to change that article and to make it clear that it also applies to all judges who have already been found and who are actually working until the entry into force of this law. However, it seems to me, despite the small amendments to the law that we have here a very significant amendment to the law which could actually produce very positive consequences in practice, which is this provision in Article 3 which binds to Article 102 of the Law and adds a new paragraph that reads, that the judge may be temporarily referred to the work and without his consent in the second court of the same degree to 50 km away from the court in which the duty is exercised, for the longest time of two years. What makes me think that's significant? If we look at the example of the Municipal Court in Zagreb, which we often state very often as one of the courts that is buried in cases and which represents that narrow throat in resolving the issue of the rights and obligations of our citizens, then we can actually come up with the fact that the judge of the Municipal Court in Zagreb has an average of a thousand or more cases in his work. It's definitely for one judge too much and it's definitely a huge amount of work that's hard to do in a way that all these objects are solved in some shorter time, especially if we have on one side always one party who's interested in her being solved as soon as possible, and on the other hand we have a party who's often interested in pulling that item apart and not being quite so quickly solved. Now, just by the provision proposed here, we will have the possibility that these judges from the municipal courts that are in the city of Zagreb, and let us not forget such courts, municipal courts in the Zagreb County 8, that judges who are not so burdened, and on average these judges have about 300 to 400 seem to be working. If we redistribute some of these judges to the City of Zagreb, then we will get one important help in which some of these cases could be cleared up. I would suggest here that the ministry may also consider one option, if the need for this is shown, and that is, if we detect and correctly determine that the problem is these great courts, Osijek, Rijeka, Zagreb, Split, that a provision may be put in place that the judge but, of course, with his consent may be deployed to work in a court that is crossing these 50 kilometers, but with the fact that, of course, he needs all the conditions, of the dwellings, of all that, of the particular type of compensation, to make one action plan, because if we have a number of cases that are standing, which are unresolved, then there is really no reason for these judges from these other courts from the territory of Croatia, if we provide them with them for a short period of time, we don't have a trial in these courts and then, in a shorter period of time, we solve all those delays that we have faced. I think it's one proposal that, of course, is not in this law, but a proposal that needs to be considered in order to solve the backlogs that we have and that burden us with solving and inflowing new cases. So I think this provision is particularly important in Article 3 where we can now use these instruments that we are offered here. It was of great importance, too, that provision that we initially called upon this House, which is a redistribution of the subject. As simple as it seemed, as much as it seemed to be as a means of assistance, but it was a very significant measure that we sent cases from overloaded courts to less-loaded courts, where we also paid costs. And it seems to me that the results are slowly coming, because according to some information at the beginning of this government's work, there were about a million and 600 thousand cases unsolved. It seems to me that the first time we get the report, we're going to see the fact that for the first time, the number of pending cases has fallen below a million. This is the result of all these changes that we have brought, it seems to me to be the result of a good path that I have often been here for this parliamentary speaker, and I have been commending, and this is the result of all those reforms that have started and, of course, in the mandate of the government where we have changed and the procedural laws, we have opened up the possibilities for these processes to go faster, so regardless of the very frequent writings and performances in the media where, of course, there is a great dissatisfaction with this segment of the functioning of the state means for the judiciary, it seems to me that we have results and it seems to be close to the days when in fact the public will say that there has been a lot done and done. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports amendments to the Law on Courts. And what is particularly important, we think that it is necessary to continue and implement all those provisions concerning the judicial reform strategy that we have brought here and this measure that I have talked about here, which is the redistribution of judges, so to say, it seems to me to be one example and an introduction to a possible new network of courts that will definitely need to be considered in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82282	Thank you. SDP club respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82283	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues! I would say that the final proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law is good proof of the principle of Croatian government. Here's why. This law intends to introduce or improve a valid positive rule on Croatian courts in three moments. First, the anti-corruption provision on property cards for all judges and, immediately, to remind me, when the Law on Courts was passed, the Government was warned that the obligation to register property cards only applies to newly elected judges. That hasn't been adopted. The SDP then proposed amending and supplementing the law to introduce the obligation to register the property card for all judges, and this was smoothly rejected. And now it comes to the agenda of that provision as anti-corruption, which, of course, I support. But the absurdity is that the newly appointed judges, and so the law states, were obliged to do so within 30 days, and judges of the elderly must probably take a long period of three months to identify their property. Or in other words, they haven't been able to store their assets yet so they can show it to the public. If it's the government's anti-corruption activity, then it's really a weak ID. This should also be added to the fact that the regulation establishing a collection of property cards of judges does not provide for the publication and that the Croatian public has the right to democratic control as is the obligation for other officials to say so. At the same time, no statement is given that it is free to publish data from property cards. And another absurd. In the proposal, the government puts the term property or property card as a concept that the government knows everything about. At the same time, in the request of the Croatian public, a government official submits a report on his property to the government at the session to discuss what the term property of officials means. So there's so much absurdity in this bill of law that it dissipates the government's intention to introduce a provision as anti-corruption. Of course, it's better that there is this provision, but it can also be misused if it's not in public view. What's the point of the ministry having a record of the property of judge officials if she's not in the public eye? Is her abuse even greater than when we don't have such a collection? But let the Croatian public judge this and I have submitted an amendment to this article on my behalf. When it comes to Article 3 that a judge may, without his consent, be referred to another court of the same degree, that measure is in principle good and should be welcomed, it may contribute to the effectiveness of resolving cases but I do not see any reason why it has not decided in principle that the distance of 80 kilometers is governed by the Labour Relations Act. The principle of efficiency is good if it does not go to harm the principle of expertise and here it could come under the question of the principle of expertise, everyone, even citizens, will know that there are or are generally judges specialised, specialists for certain areas and here is a limit only that the court is of the same degree. Of course, it can be observed in practice but it is very important to warn. And the third important thing about this "little" law is that the responsibility of the president of the court is getting closer. But this one is only responsible for duty because it's only being replaced by duty, so that's how it's supposed to be. This is not a working legal discipline or, as I would say, responsibility, it is very specific and should be regulated more precisely because it is a very important function in Croatian society and everywhere else, so any discretionary decision on the President of the Court should be avoided. The SDP Club would support this law if the applicant would respect the precise regulation of the anti-corruption provision of Article 3, Article 2 of the proposed law and at least seriously consider the provision referred to in Article 3 relating to the reference to another court in order to determine 80 kilometers as fundamentally as it is in the Labour Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82284	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82285	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Lek's incorrect claim on all the judges' property cards. It was not only the SDP Club proposal but also the HSP Club and HSS and IDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82286	Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82287	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Lek, where he claimed that the government was discussing the application of property at its session. She was discussing what and how the property should be reported. It's all classified in the application. Are those gold teeth, artificial eyelashes, artificial nails. What should all of this be listed in the property card as property? That's what they discussed. Because it's not precise in any act that's all property.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82288	Emil Tomljanović. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, an esteemed colleague said, quote: "It is a poor ID to the government for the adoption of an anti-corruption legal solution. On the contrary. This is the full legitimacy of the Government yes and in this segment especially with the property cards of judges is on the trail of legal solutions that are extremely anti-corruption and such are the importance and contents of the other bill proposals that come to us from the Resort Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82290	The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82291	Your Honor, Madam Minister, I didn't mean to speak like that, but listening to these lines, I would suggest now that this law goes on, to be directed to third reading and all with the aim of removing the dilemma of what is even property. That is, the official in this case has a name in his property card. Here is Article 2, paragraph 3, literally reads: "The judges who entered into office before the Courts Act enters into force, National No. 150/05 are obliged to submit a report on the property within 3 months of the date of entry into force of the law." Article 2, as it is correct, should not be disputed. He's more or less expected. But what if, for example, a judge has a dozen gold watches worth 150 grand. Whether our judge will be obliged to list those watches in the property card as well as the information clearly as to how he acquired them. ... How? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Villa and apartments in Zagreb. Now, are we going to create a problem for that judge who, let's say, has those 150 thousand Euros per hour, or are we simply going to understand his position? So until these doubts are removed, I don't think we should pass this law that would otherwise not have these provisions. latest practices, logical, read and understandable. Otherwise, I also suggest that everyone on public salary submits property cards. It doesn't matter if it's a representative, whether it's the president of the state. It didn't matter if it was doctors or inspectors. It does not matter if it is those who issue building permits or councils of county, city, and so on. Article 3 is not a problem if it is done fairly. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. For example, the President of the Court of Justice will be relieved of his duties when the judicial administration's affairs are monitored in the procedure of establishing illegality and irregularities in the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration, which damages the regular and proper conduct of the affairs and the functioning of the court when they fail to monitor or directly violate the rules on the granting of the case. When in breach of the rules or otherwise injures the principle of independence of the judge. Where a request is not made for the initiation of the procedure for the execution of a phasing-out act. When he caused damage to the reputation of the court by his conduct or by other means, and so on and so forth. It is clear that neither this Article is disputed nor this Article 6. This is a dispute in Article 2, in fact, one word, is a disputed practice. We see all this article of the 8th also applies to the judges of the jury. I quote: "The provisions of this law relating to judges are applied accordingly to jurors if the law is not different." Now the question is whether the judge of the jury, and we know who is normally appointed by, or proposed by, the County Assembly and so on, will submit property cards. They do, I don't know the president, Prime Minister, Damir Caine doesn't. It's not just fair. Here in Article 2. Djakic should mention it and everything Mr. Djakic and Mr. Palaric make fun of. Horses, sheep, hairs, pumpkins, gold teeth, we heard no? Silicone breasts. But certainly the most refined watches of the Swiss hurricane industry. The parliament may even mock the law, but that law must not be mocked by the government at its meetings. It must apply and respect it, and civil servants headed by Mr. Palaric at the very least respect it. Now they're joking aside. Thank you. ... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm glad to take care of my health care integrity. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82292	Worrying about a representative comes first.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82293	But let's make a joke aside. The law says it's not controversial. It's a slow practice. Yeah, let's get this straight. Here's what I'm gonna say and then I'm gonna end it. I don't even blame the Prime Minister for not reporting his watches because it's none of the officials. No one It's not Machek or the president of state, Damir Kajin or Kovacevic. [[/Invader: Cat!]] The problem is another clear nature as it comes to it. Now why am I saying that? The problem with the executive is huge. When it comes to, I don't know, which executive authority and acquisition of property, but with judges, that's the problem I dare say a hundred times bigger because they directly decide about you, your right, your interest, when I mentioned integrity before. The problem of the Croatian judiciary is acute. I would even dare say that politicians are a "kind mother" to many who work in the judiciary, who are protected by life terms and so on. Here and there is mentioned, for example, I don't know the land on Brač, the case of this Cvik who had eighty or nine hundred misdemeanors, which criminal charges and freely walked on Korčula until a few days ago. About the conversion and just a few conditional convictions for what was done there on another occasion. This law, especially this Article 5, is certainly good but it would not be open to talk about these property cards, or what is actually happening here. Once again, I will say that politicians are sometimes a kind mother to many who judge politicians. True, Mr. Bosnjakovic mentions that the number of pending cases in this country has dropped significantly. It mentions the possibility that for the first time since one whole or more decades he has descended below a million unsolved objects. This should be acknowledged, commended, thanked and computerized by the grantshop, transferring undisputed items to the notebook or notebooks. Only no one mentions how much legal protection costs have increased in the Republic of Croatia in the meantime. In 2006, yesterday, Mr Kovacevic spoke of 3 million public service. He says if we multiply it by 100 kuna, it's 300 million kuna, and it seems to me that the data is much more credible and it's about a billion kunas of those services. So, no legal protection has ever been more expensive than it is today, and that's what we need to talk about. Understandably, it must be available to the maximum. All in all, one more joke aside. The law as it should be clearly adopted, but then it should also be correct in the application of the provisions in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82294	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82295	He did not touch Lek, but counterpart Cain incorrectly claimed that no card, or any official of 1200 officials who, under the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, were obliged to make a statement about their assets, had filled out that card as he said everything. No one has any insight into the state of any property, but I'm pretty sure most of the officials are right and they put all their assets in the card. So you neither have a commission, nor any insight into the truthfulness of that data because neither the commission nor you can verify the truthfulness of that data. This is done by the Croatian public and that is the purpose of publishing these cards. That's why it's not right for you to treat those who did it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82296	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82297	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Minister. The first thing to say was the fundamental cause of the amendments to the applicable Law on Courts. You all seem to have forgotten a little. The main reason was that the Supreme Court gentleman Ranko Marijan had made it possible for the President of the State Election Commission to change the Law on Courts and to allow him to stay and return to office, and now you did not say that in the reasons between the first and second readings, so this should be publicly repeated, because this is all contained in the amendments and additions, which is what I am on behalf of the Croatian Party Club of Rights and others who spoke about the property cards that this must apply not only to newly elected judges, but also to all judges when the judge can be temporarily referred to in another court. Let's go back and remember why the changes and the additions started. Okay. You didn't say that. There's no such thing as a provision anymore. You should have said so, and we commend you here, which means you haven't kept that provision. But I'm saying we should remember the beginning. Now we are going to this part of the HSP Club to welcome these new provisions regarding the resolution of the President of the Court and also to Mrs. Ministers, we commend your decision to have resolved the President of the Municipal Court in Korčula because what Mrs. Ruža Tomasic was saying from the beginning, as well as how it happens with criminal charges against Jakša Cvitanović called Cvitanović. There have been 93 criminal charges and it has been determined and it is an honor for you to have this part that the President of the Municipal Court himself participated in all of this. But speaking of that part, we're asking on behalf of the HSP Club to actually conduct an investigation as to how it's possible yesterday it was in the media with all of us, there is today. How is it possible that in the course of the investigation, the investigation process that is being conducted, for Cvik and the company, that information that essentially has the character of further information because there is still an ongoing investigation into the laptop, which is found on the laptop, where it can lead to all situations. This is a very dangerous thing because those involved, who are in this chain, by publishing such information can come into a situation to protect themselves, i.e. the course of the investigation in this way can be stopped, i.e. there are various situations which are not a good thing. Therefore, it should also really take account of this part when it is already spoken of and the responsibility of everything needs to be seen how it is possible that such information, which is very important for the course of the investigation, which will be of great importance both for the indictment proposal and for everything that arises, is that in the course of the investigation, that I do not blame journalists, such information is always good for journalists. But the publication of such information when the procedure is under way is not welcome. It is therefore evident that in this area there are certain things that should not happen in connection with the leak of classified information. So today you could see the same thing about how it works in certain places to say that our embassy in London the Spanish war criminal was 10, 15 times coming. Be careful, he came to the Embassy of Croatia 10, 15 times, or the consulate and that no one knew anything, yet he sought passports and everything else. So, we really need to put some things in place and not let it, that there's a leak of those things that are very important, as in this case, and we know for a fact that the whole public is also focused on that part. However, in the sense that the conduct of the procedure and everything else should be seen how and in what way to lead, it should be established that such things should no longer happen. So things shouldn't happen because then everything will fall into the water as it fell thanks to the president of that municipal court. But on behalf of the HSP club, I also think that we should have addressed all these situations more precisely for the resolution of the President of the Courts, as well as these situations regarding reference to work in terms of precision as well as how we always act. It means there's no discretion as far as Article 102 is concerned. He says if it is not determined that the president has not initiated, say, a tight procedure against someone, it is now necessary to see whether or not it is a major injury to a tighter, easier injury. So it would be far better if it was precise. But certainly means we also welcome these provisions for, which you have accepted to introduce property cards to those judges who are already on duty. And we hope that this part will really help as one of the preventive measures to prevent possible corruption within the courts. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82298	Thank you. HNS club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82299	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to repeat the position of the CNS we had in our first reading. It's about disappointingly good law. It's a good thing things started, especially around the judge's property cards. It's a good thing there's been an obligation to work judges in places where their work is more necessary than where it's within a 50-mile radius, even though the Labour Act says it's 80 kilometers for all the other borders, but let's make it 50 for the judges. Why is it disappointing? For two reasons. First, the law was passed about 10 years ago, something like that, 10 months, a year. When we passed the law, my colleague Leko mentioned the SDP club which had objections to the fact that the cards of judges were unlike the cards of other state officials, the property card, that the cards of judges were secret. It wasn't just the SDP club that had those remarks. Almost all clubs except the HDZ club had that remark. The government rejected it without thinking, not saying that the rights, but no reason whatsoever, were there no logical reasons at that time. In the amendments and additions therefore to the first amendments and additions of the law, and they happened, the first reading was one 6 months after the law was passed, the government comes with a correction, with the adoption of the opposition attitude that all judges in the Croatian court system should give property cards. It does not come with the notion that this property card should be public. Now, this is a wonderful way to waste Parliament's time senselessly and how the taxpayers' money is wasted. When we passed the law, we could go inside without a problem, with a little bit of the government's kindness, introduce a provision that all judges, not just those who are employed as judges after the law was passed, that all judges should submit their property cards. It's been working for six months. We've been discussing this for hours, tons of paper being spent to make something that could have been done with one piece of paper at that point. It's completely pointless. Judges' property cards aren't public. All other officials of the state are public, these are not public. I am convinced that after this discussion and after the pressure of the public and all that will happen in 6 months, new amendments and additions to this law will come where they will stand that the property cards of judges are in the same category as the property cards of all state officials. We're going to spend a ton of paper again, thousands of hours working hours, ten hours talking here on committees at the Parliament plenary session to do something that we could do right away as soon as we passed the law and we knew what to do. It's not a secret, it's not some wisdom now, it's some hot water that somebody thought up, so, yeah, we didn't know that before. We knew people. We knew when the law was passed, but that's not what we wanted. The second disappointment for the HNS club is that there is still no talk of working-law courts or even working-law departments in the amendments and amendments to the laws. That's obviously not what the promoter thought was necessary. It is evident that this is not necessary in Croatia. According to the information provided by the state attorney in Croatia in his latest report, around 250 cases were filed annually for violations of labour rights pursuant to Article 114. Penalty law. Of which the state's attorney rejects half, half, so 120, something comes to the courts. Half of them throw away the courts. The rest of that half is parole. What's left is fines. And over the whole year, one letter and a number, one employer is being punished by prison, I guess paroled, I don't know, that's what the state's attorney says in his report for violations of labour rights. Therefore, it is also likely that the proposer of this Law believes that this is not such a big problem in Croatia that special courts or special departments of courts should deal with it. The Croatian People's Party will highlight that fact in every discussion of the judicial and judicial system in this House. It's about property cards and what the judges and everyone else need to put in them. We say that in front of the Croatian public. The reputation of the legislative authority in the Croatian public is not great, we all know that well. And one of the reasons is that, from this pay phone and from its places, a good number of us are actually playing by saying that we don't know what this property is. At one point, a president seems to me to be the Supreme Court saying that money is not property either. Now the watches aren't property, I don't know if the houses are property, maybe they are. We all know what property is, and we all know how to control the property that the officials have, and the court has, the way they acquired it. The question is whether or not we'll do it. In Croatia, people are afraid of a policeman at the door. Everywhere in the world, people are afraid of the tax collectors at the door. As long as that's not the case with us, this one, I have to say freely, the property card flossules given by the officials won't actually mean anything. And the public will comment on it, and God knows what there is, nobody controls it anyway. Yeah, well, no one controls that anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82300	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82301	Mr. President, a colleague of Vuljanic said this is an example of pointless spending of time and taxpayers' money because we could have installed these provisions 10 months ago when we passed the Law. Well, it's true that it might have been possible to install the provisions and when we passed the law, but if this leads to improvement, good things, then nothing is pointless, and neither is spending time, nor is spending money because we have to remember that we've actually changed the Constitution twice in a short period of time, so we could probably change it in that first version of everything. So with all these numerous amendments to the law when we go by that logic, we could say that they could be in that original first text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82302	Second correction, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82303	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Vuljanić, I quote you, and it is not true that this Assembly is working needlessly and is wasting time. This Parliament has its Rules of Procedure and works on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. That's why we're here to make laws and to change. Every law that is passed we are at a time when it can be improved and its changes can occur, and behind us is the time when the law was passed and did not change. Maybe you were an active political factor in the former state back then, so now it's hard for you. As far as I'm concerned, you and your colleague Cain are neither my role model nor mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82304	Dear Representative Zlatko Kramaric, Club of HSLS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82305	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. We see that here some colleagues insist on reconstructing what really happened exactly when we first discussed and to see who stood up for what at that time and that is, it's always and it's very good. We have a strong battle for a better past, and we think if we were good and brilliant then it means that we will be even better and better in the future. What seems to me now is that on behalf of the HSLS Club, we were then saying, and that's not good when it's just being under the pressure of the public, when the public is actually sensitizing for some problem, so it might be a good thing that some events are being anti-cimated so that we can design that better future, that certain things are actually, that we design them, and not that we're being found today. The club will support these amendments, these amendments and additions to this Law because they are actually part of the very traumatic reform of the judiciary in our society. And we are indeed, all of us, whoever keeps to ourselves in politics says that then reforming the judiciary is something that is very, very important work, and yet also if we want to be honest, it is not at all simple because, very difficult to reform the material that you already have and which, which is found there. But there is always the possibility that good legislation with good legal solutions can be improved, even in some way, to introduce some rules of play although no one can in this society, so it means that the judiciary can be exceptional and have some exclusiveness. It's about as much as they have to participate in what we want, which is normalization, demultization of our society. Creating a sense of legal certainty, equality, all of it, for all of it's actually principles for which it isn't, or it would be impossible to fight them and fight them. It is clear that every time the law is passed, he has this good idea in him, and sometimes practice shows that some actually ideas are not that simple to implement, and then there should be these certain adjustments. So I'm saying, maybe some times you should be a little bit braver. I'm simply not just saying that we're waiting for what the public is going to say, but that, I say, let's try to accept and even listen to some of these colleagues who are so utopian... moody and some of their suggestions and respect because they were probably done with the best of intentions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see, this, too, problem with these property cards is obviously a problem that we now say, I will not say forced, but it could not be ignored, and then this addition of this Act to introduce and the obligation that all judges, and not only those who entered into office after the adoption of the Court Act in 2005, must also submit a report on their property. I'm saying, that provision not only removes that inequality between judges in the obligation to file these property cards but it represents another one, come on, I mean a positive, positive link in the fight against bribery and corruption in our society because it's obvious that when there's one disproportionateity between judicial incomes and their assets, it's something that's not good. As usual, every time there's such a misunderstanding between these, between someone's receipts and something, and what that person has. A colleague of Vuljanić was now talking here about us all knowing what the property is. You know, I think that first of all, there's no need to prove it, that logically it doesn't stand non-stop, it would prove that nothing is really really predominant and then it's not good, then it would be very good to actually define it, and not that we all have the feeling that we know what the property is, then you have what an contraio, so actually it's nobody knows what the property is, and then it just happens and this one in the public carication that is or isn't property. Here's a fellow Djapic if I'm not mistaken to mention gold teeth, like this if a man were even more cynical he would say today and there's something more valuable in the teeth than gold teeth, it's ceramic teeth, and then again whether it should be introduced or not, or how, I think it should certainly have some sense of measure. We also commend this fact supplementing Article 102 that judges and without their consent... may be referred to work in another same-stage court which is now not further away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If that's 50 or 80 kilometers, that's where you think the same thing because what about that movie says what's the limit, says the limit is what it says, says if I take a step then I'm either another man or a dead man. I hope this isn't the situation within 50, 80 kilometers to define those limits so firmly. But also because it's obviously a good indicator that the number of cases is decreasing, but perhaps that, in some ways, the reduction in the number of cases may have been accumulated and that, in our case, justice should actually be considered to increase the number of judges. In the end, there are four law schools in Croatia that are quite good at making people for the job, so I don't think... And now what's again the principal of a million and something unsolved or something under a million unsolved, but the fact that every unsolved case actually... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] one fate to yourself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also good to add these points to this, which are the reasons for resolving the President of the Court, because it immediately achieves better protection of the functions being carried out, means protecting both the integrity and integrity of the institution, which is very important. We've also recently had in the media some controversy as to whether the judge is allowed to play cards, so probably he can, but somewhere private, but still it shouldn't become a public fact that I don't know where he works in some places that aren't, which are not suitable for such a thing. Therefore, it would also be good for those who judge other people's actions in accordance with civilizational social gains to have them as well, that they be a role model in their own, in their behaviour. Here's another saying once the HSLS club will support these amendments and additions to the Law on Courts because we really consider them to be a contribution to this particular judicial reform that we are aware that it is not possible to spend overnight, but it is also not good to relativate along with those facts that, that it is not going, that it is not going easy, but it must indeed be one of the priorities between... and this Parliament and this Parliament should indeed not only be told to bring the laws under public pressure, but also sometimes be visionary and offer those legal solutions that can pass the test of time and for the next 10 years or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82306	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, counterpart Kramarić has his impression that no one knows what the concept of property implies in the claim, which is, of course, not true. It is doubtless that every accountant knows what the concept of property means, every accountant in every company. In addition, the representative Kramarić does not excuse the lack of knowledge of the law, and the law defines the civil and legal concept of property, and it is precisely the concept of both this Law and the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, so that definition exists in several laws such as the Law on Real Rights, etc., the Accounting, Accounting, etc., and in every encyclopedia, this is therefore not an excuse to claim such a thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82308	The HSS club, the respected representative of Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82309	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well here we have the presentations of the minister herself, and several times it has been seen in fact that it is about amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, as Ms. Minister says minor, minor changes and additions, and now, indeed, when we look at these changes and add to the property cards, the reference of judges to the second court, the resolution of the President of the Court, and indeed these are minor changes, with the fact that they really need to be welcomed by the introduction of property cards and property cards that will be publicly announced and made available to every citizen. What am I saying that for? I'm saying this based on experience, I'm saying this based on what we could read in the means of public communication and it's still very fresh information on the means of public communication that gave an overview of a very strange way of obtaining the property of a judge who was a judge in a municipal court with receipts as well as any other judge. However, the acquisition of assets and assets he had at his disposal was very strange. Such writings in the means of public communication certainly give birth to the mistrust of citizens in such judges. Introducing property cards if these property cards are really under public supervision, I think it's also a benefit to the vast majority of judges who are an honest part of judges, a moral part of judges, and whose very individual affairs and individual inexplicability of certain cases do harm. So, these minor changes, as Mrs. Minister of the Croatian Peasants' Club said, will support. However, Madam Ministers of Croatia do not need minor amendments to the law, Croatia needs rooted changes which will make the judicial authority efficient, swift and just and therefore, in this part on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party club, with what I said we will support these minor changes, I will not talk about it, but I will talk about the problem of the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia as a fundamental assumption of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia, and that means a better life for every citizen. During all these sessions and during the debate on a whole series of laws, even if you want reports from the occupier or reports from the occupier to the state's attorney, etc., we were able to read the finding that in Croatia the rule of law is not working. It does not function as much as it is necessary and as much as it is desired for the sake of legal certainty for both citizens as natural persons and legal persons. And as long as there is this legal uncertainty, we cannot expect that there will be a significant shift in Croatia based on which and from which the citizen will be able to live better. The functioning of the rule of law requires, above all, a stable legislative regulation. However, we daily make changes and additions to laws that we amended a few months ago. So let's remember this summer we had amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, whose amendments and additions we made in the 7th month, and already at the right session at the 9th month we brought new amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act. Here we have now passed the Law on Courts, and after six months we bring amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. And not to repeat and not to list how often we actually bring amendments and additions to the law, which every amendment and supplement also requires a new time to adapt law to everyday life. Of course, in such frequent amendments and additions to the law, we cannot have stable legislation and no particular practice can be rooted which will be acceptable for every citizen and for every legal person. A further prerequisite for the functioning of the legal establishment of the rule of law is certainly the need to eradicate corruption. Some may say no, they will argue that it is not such a bad picture of corruption, but looking at Croatia's place on corruption scales, we must agree that a high degree of corruption is not allowed. Why is the eradication of corruption a presumption of the functioning of the rule of law? Well, it's because corruption knows neither political colors nor individual corruption status enters every segment of society, even if you want to. Although certain judges are repeated by individual judges and, if they are prone to corruption, it certainly gives rise to mistrust, mistrust leads to uncertainty and there is no establishment of a rule of law. So for the rule of law to function, one of the main pillars is an effective and fast judiciary. This judiciary and these judges must first and foremost be professional, it is not enough just to meet the formal legal requirements prescribed by law. The judge must also be an impeccable moral person. He must be an image of morality, honesty and justice in the midst of which he is a judge. And therefore, that is why the question of the appointment of judges, the question of the responsibility of judges, the question of the resolution of judges must be paid particular attention, because the appointment of a judge who will be on the lauded side of his citizens, is not only a mistrust in that judge but also a mistrust in the overall judicial authority. We have to have a judicial authority that will trust, absolutely trust the citizens. We are at a time when there has been an overall erosion of moral perception, a scale of moral values. One system is disrupted, one system is destroyed, one level of moral values is down and down, the other is not built. Well, it's inadmissible. It is impossible not to know in Croatia what property is more valuable. The first puzzling statement was when unfortunately today we were from the Constitutional Court judge, then he wasn't the judge of the Constitutional Court, we got the feeling that money wasn't property. And now imagine a lawyer who claims money is not property, named as a constitutional judge. So can citizens trust such people who have no fundamental concept of what it's worth? Or if we want to do so more recently, property cards are desirable anyway, necessary and I personally welcome them just as they are welcomed by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party. However, we have recently seen that even the property card is not actually a record of real property. We come and wonder what's more important? A car worth 10,000 euros, 15 thousand euros, 20,000 euros or 5,000 euros is required to enter the property card. And let's say an hour of 28 thousand euros is not worth it and it's not being introduced. So, fellow MPs. As long as we have such an idea, we can't expect it because the judges are eventually named from a society that thinks the way it does, the way I showed it. That's why we need a reform of the judicial authority. The reform of the judicial authority that comes from the reform of the appointment of judges, to the reform of the judges' responsibility and the resolution of judges. In my own right, since I had never personally been a judge in judicial practice or in working with courts, however, I worked all my working life exclusively with courts because I represented my company and represented my company. At the time there was the appointment of judges for a certain time and the color was problematic, it was quite problematic how the judge thought what decisions he would make because it was questionable whether he would be re-appointed. Well, I say hello, and we welcome a new way to appoint judges, and we think they have to be independent. No one can influence judgmental authority. Neither the legislative authority nor the executive power can influence it. They must indeed be independent. But that independence can't be turned into anarchy. This independence cannot lead us to the point where mass cases lie in court drawers, to wait for them to become obsolete, that there are no responsibilities because dozens of serious cases, serious cases, have gone out of date, cannot happen to us, for example, as we had the case with that judge in Gospić, that what all citizens think is rape, that it is not rape, which is that responsibility? Of course the judiciary must be independent of politics, of course. Politics can very well guide the decision-making of individual judges by its abuse. But do we today have a judiciary independent of politics? I would like to go to myself as much as you would wish yourself to go and say that, with a new system, we have freed the power of judgment from the influence of politics. Dear colleagues, that's not so true. Who's calling the judges? The State Judiciary Council. Who appoints the State Judgment Council? So we here by the will of the political majority. What does the State Judgment Council decide? Well, the responsibility of the judges. Let us try to reevaluate our colleagues without the desire to interfere with the decision of the State Judiciary Council how much of these judges have ended in such a way that the principle of justice and honesty and the preservation of the dignity and dignity of judges expected it. Very little or nothing. Of course, such things have led to the fact that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not think that the judicial authority is independent, they think that it is under the influence of political power, current political options or those options which at the time carried out the appointments. And you know, when something is not independent which should be independent, when someone does not make decisions under the law and the Constitution as prescribed, but based on current political interests then it cannot have citizens' trust, then it creates uncertainty, then there is no legal certainty and with a lack of legal certainty there is absolutely no progress. We can wish so much for new entrepreneurial ideas in Croatia, we can so much wish for new investments. However, if the fundamental problem in Croatia is the inability to collect, due to the inability to collect and indifference to go into bankruptcy of a number of legal entities and the inability to collect is due to inefficient judicial authority. There was a time when the disputed claim could be resolved and charged within 60 days. Today, such disputes last for years. Now, when an entrepreneur knows he won't be able to charge his claim by court, then there's no courage to invest, and without investment, there's no new jobs, and without new jobs there's no pay and no pay, there's no better standard. Madam Minister, on this very trail of debate we want again Croatia does not need any minor changes, Croatia needs root changes that will lead to and establish the functioning of the rule of law as a basic prerequisite for the development of all kinds of society and all segments of society in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82310	Thank you. At 10.45, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Now we're going to an individual debate. First vice president at home, respected representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82311	Mr. President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! And this debate on behalf of clubs thus far shows that it is actually a mature time to put a point of the agenda in the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible to discuss actually the scope, content, reach, necessary reforms of the judiciary and the measures already being taken in which justice reform is ensured on the one hand, and on the other hand on the situation in the judiciary and on the place and role of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, especially from the point of view at the end of the end and the functioning of the judicial authority. And it would be good if one such item of the agenda appeared as soon as possible, not only from the point of view of what our own needs show, but from among other things, and because it is one of the tasks that stands before us as an imperative for achieving all the reforms that need to create the preconditions that our natural and legal persons actually live in circumstances that are similar and compatible with the circumstances that apply in the countries of the European Union. Another question that I would particularly like to point out, which I regret not only these amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, but I must refer to because I mention it every time the courts are discussed. This is a question of the need, in fact, for the laws on courts to be asked a different question or a question of the administrative court and the court. We wanted to or did not want to admit a huge number of cases stem from the fact that the country's still excessive influence in the great sphere of social relations in which it is practically issued in the ultimate line of administrative acts but unfortunately our administrative court does not have a first and second degree and it is time to consider whether it would be good for natural regions to be established in the first degree of administrative courts and, of course, at the level of the Republic of Croatia, the administrative court to judge in the second degree. Secondly, which would open up the possibility of weighing aside from controlling the legality of acts and administrative acts is actually dealing with the scale to solve this whole series of issues. In fact, it is evident that in administrative disputes most often, in the administrative court, a decision is made that returns to re-trials. And here we have a vicious circle that actually delays the possibility of achieving and protecting the rights of a citizen of such a natural and legal person and in this respect it would be good to consider the situation for one of the following changes. Now, let's call these little changes how most MPs characterize it, however, a little comment and state our own position. It is good to amend and supplement Article 97 which introduces the obligation to judges and judges so far appointed before the amendments and additions of the 1995 Law on Courts have to declare their property. But I don't understand why it takes three months, I really don't get it. I think it's the longest period of 30 days, practically it's a deadline immediately and the longest within 30 days they can all report their property into the property card and naturally deposit it in the competent place. After all, the practice already exists in relation to the newly appointed judges, therefore nothing new is happening, and that three-month period really really bothers the citizens and all those who are in the same situation that these issues have to work. My second remark regardless of the good idea that a judge can also be temporarily directed to work and without his consent to another court which is 50 kilometers away is tied to time. You know, two years is a lot. Very much so. And in such a situation, my deep conviction for a year is maximum enough. If this is so that judges need to be sent more than a year to two years of temporary work, then we need to open up a debate on something other than whether or not to temporarily deploy a judge to such a job. We need to open a debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts from a point of view, an organisational aspect of whether our organisation of the courts meets the needs for a trial in the Republic of Croatia, because we simply have to finally clear that up. We need to clarify in fact what it is with the capital, what is mainly the Municipal Court in the City of Zagreb and whether it can cover all needs as a Palace of Justice, or perhaps we should discuss whether new courts in the city of Zagreb could be established, which would be proportionate to the number of inhabitants and the number of cases, i.e. the trial in a high-quality way. On the second point of view which he would have to make, I find the state of play that is unacceptable to me as provided for in Article 7 and as regards the amendment of Article 116 of the so-called ‘Article 116’. V.D. to perform the functions of the President of the Court. So far it's been six months, and now it's proposed to delete it. This is practically an element of the sustainability of the performance of such a function. I have to say that in such a situation as much as we want or do not want, when you have a temporary leader, at the same time you're running fine ones of small games, and especially in the judiciary and in other institutions of a similar type around possible personnel solutions who will fill that place. Whether he who is temporarily appointed will leave it or not, and whether we want to or not want to admit it, he suffers the job. And here's the responsibility of the ministry. I personally think that, possibly, if in exceptional cases, there were such situations that could be discussed, we could possibly extend these six months to a year, but within a year I think there are simply no reasons that within a year there is no coverage and no appointment of the President of any court in the Republic of Croatia who should solve this, of course, when it comes to this ministry. And I think that this should be resolved for several reasons, for the quality of the organisation of work, for the efficiency of the court and for the avoidance of these, if I may say so, internal groupings for the achievement of human resources policy, ultimately and for the interest of that person. As much as we don't want to admit it, but it's actually objectively present. Of course, I am interested in another thing that is quite interesting and I would like it to be accepted anyway, and it is related to Article 8 where it is said to add actually a new item, where it is said that the provisions of this law apply accordingly to judges if the law is not otherwise determined. Since the law is not different, it seems to me that the idea is accepted that all judges of the jury who will be appointed judges also have to pirate their property. The question arises whether this will have negative consequences for possible candidateship in relation to quality, given that there are people who do not want their property to be shown to the public, and professional and should be present, on the moral part I do not want to comment on, can be in that part. Therefore, there is an additional question here whether or not it has been included. If that is the case, then it is generally in principle, but the question is also opened, in fact, whether or not in some other segments of the executive and legislative authority, where external members of the work appear, through advisory bodies, were in Parliament with us as members of the Committee of Parliament who can discuss all issues, but cannot decide whether or not they should also be prescribed to report their assets in relation to and the way they are acquired, and of course the change and acquisition of that mandate for the simple reason that they can actually question the possibility of conflicts of interest which may also arise in that segment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the case of a procedure of supervision of the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration, where unlawful and irregularity is established in the conduct of the... judicial administration which damages the regular and proper conduct of the affairs and the functioning of the court. You know, these irregularities should be a little concrete. Any illegality will certainly harm, among other things, the proper conduct of the work, but when it comes to some irregularities, they may have a certain impact on court relations, etc. However, we would have to see what these are within the meaning of this law irregularities of such character that it will certainly be necessary for the President of the Court to resign, or must be resolved. Why am I saying that? Because there are a whole series of irregularities that can occur without the ability to influence and control the president, because he finds out afterwards in view of the work of the judicial administration, and in this respect, it should nevertheless be a little more concrete in order to actually open up the possibility for him to better control the judicial administration that he would have to lead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82312	Thank you. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82313	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts should be supported as a final proposal, not only for those legal institutes which are defined and discussed by the proposal itself but also for the accepted observations of the MPs which were made during the debate on the proposal of the Law in the first reading. In fact, the proposer, and I find it extremely important to stress, intervened in the proposed legislative solutions and in the following way. So first, there is a certain time for the judge to be temporarily referred to the second court of the same degree, so for the longest time of two years. Not two years, but the longest time of two years. Second, the President of the Court may be relieved of his duties when the case is supervised by the Court of Justice’s case-law where the illegality and irregularities in the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration are found to be harmful to the regular and proper conduct of the affairs and the functioning of the court, where the President of the Court has failed to apply for the launch of a cumbersome procedure for the conduct of the proceedings and has violated the principle of independence of the judge in the case. It should also be pointed out here that this amendment specifically states that the President of the Court will be relieved of his duties when he has done harm to the reputation of the court or of the judicial office, or when he is temporarily away from his duties. Furthermore, it is really a provision that actually explains the way and we have it in the proposed amendments to the law, the constitution of the judicial councils in relation to the entry into force of this law. According to the provisions of the Law on Courts, a new Judicial Council will be established within 4 months of the entry into force of this law, and the constitution of the new Judicial Councils will actually end the term of office of members of the so far or of the present Judicial Councils. Compared to the proposed institutes which are now normable, they are therefore working with this law. It should also be said that we can systematicize them in the next way. Therefore, firstly, the obligation to submit a report on the property and then, for all judges, the obligation to establish what I have already mentioned to the Judicial Councils and, of course, to set a time limit for the temporary deployment of judges and not to prescribe a deadline for the appointment of the President of the Court or by deleting that period of 6 months. The existing legal solution prescribed the obligation to subsist the report of the assets or designated judges on their assets, but that obligation was only applicable to judges who entered or entered into service after the entry into force of the law. The simplified obligation did not apply to all judges which did not achieve the purpose of the proposed legal solutions. With a new solution, all judges are obliged to submit to the Ministry of Justice not only a report on their assets but also a report on the permanent incomes and assets of their spouses, spouses and property of their underage children. As well as the obligation to report upon termination of judicial duties. In situations where these changes in duties occurred during the conduct of the duties, significant changes in the assets submitted, the submission of the report is mandatory during the calendar year in which the change occurred. In conclusion, this obligation must be carried out by all judges, of course, and those who have entered into office before the adoption of this law and that period is set, within three months, which shall be calculated from the date of entry into force of the proposed law. In line with everything exposed and the core or be what we have had the opportunity to hear so far in the debates, it is a small change or a small number of legal institutes but which I consider very important and in fact everyone who has already discussed with these institutions agrees that they should now be unreservedly supported and that they should become an integral part of the Law on Courts. With this I also conclude my debate, of course, with absolute support from all these newly proposed legal decisions and institutes, which will become an integral part of the Law on Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82314	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82315	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Ms. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. It has not been a year, and here again is the debate of the Law on Courts or the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and, above all, because of what is here, the Proposer has found that those who have objected to the fact that the bill lacks the possibility of all judges showing and registering their property, or that this card is mandatory for all judges and not just for newly appointed judges. Now here's what he sees after all this time and I'm a proposer. It has been pointed out several times here that there are little changes. There are only a few articles of this law. But I wouldn't exactly say that this is about small changes and even if it was about small changes, every such change is about the functioning and speed of the work of the courts and their basic constitutional and legal tasks is precisely about efficiency and speed of action. So here's why you see I'm the promoter and the other, other branches of government like this executive, and we here as legislators shouldn't be independent of these certain deadlines that are being extended here in each article. There's no excuse for that. Because I believe that every, every proposal for existing amendments that regulates the formation and conduct of courts and those laws that they apply should go to that end right now. Speeds and efficiency. So I immediately object, which has already been pointed out here, which is why the judges who were previously appointed need 3 months from the date of entry into force of this law to file a report on their property. There's no reason for that. And in the end, it brings no, to a different position without any saying, I repeat the reasons in relation to other judges and their obligation and other officials. One 15-day period is a perfect, perfectly suitable time. In the end, the judicial authority is also accustomed to those already shortened deadlines, both when making and sending decisions that we have made in the amendments to the procedural laws. Because if you put on a three-month period, it's very likely that even someone forgets this commitment. Because when the deadline is too long and too long, it puts him in danger of being respected at all. At the end of the day and practice, it is a caselaw of its own. But not only has it not been proposed then, or the SDP Club proposal has been accepted, but it has also rejected the legal proposal which the SDP Club has proposed on the basis of what has also been seen in the interpretation which the minister herself has given to refer only to the newly established judges. So even when it was quite clear that this was not created for the obligation to file property cards by previously elected judges, or appointed judges, the proposer and the majority of parliament rejected our parliamentary proposal. But I'm not saying this because now we're going to go back and spend time, and that's because of some hurt vanity why our good legal proposal was rejected rather than so that it doesn't happen in the future because of the damage that comes from those who apply it. and the power of judgment and then finally the citizens. I'm saying this because any good proposal that comes to any party should be respected if we have so serious that will, and I think that our common goal is the speed and efficiency of acting on our own judgmental authority. A provision concerning the transfer of judges is a very important provision. It is small but important because in some ways it is deviating but quite justifiable, I agree with it from the Montreal Convention on the Inviolability of Judges, which also speaks of the immobility of Judges or their immovability. However, given the situation in which the judiciary is present today, it certainly is necessary and can be possible to temporarily refer the judge to work without his consent in court and does not have to be of the same degree. We had previous legal solutions before the 1990s which, according to the regulations applicable in the Republic of Croatia, that when some backlog occurred in a closer court then not only the colleagues, other judges, but also the immediate court. Of course, they were then paid by the county judge, then the District Court, but while this condition would be extraordinary because of a particularly new inflow or because of the complexity of some cases that appeared in lower court or surrounding courts and thus intervened. And that should also be done to enable the judges of the higher court, because I say such a positive experience that prevented then lags should then be used. Unfortunately, in the 1990s that good provision was rejected, it is now very necessary. Here she is now, with this proposal of change and introduction. But I'm saying, there's no obstacle to allowing judges of the County Court who often, in their own civil cases, judge the council, no longer see that contact, and also that practice they had as judges of the lower court came in handy, and that we're not talking about their experience, which then comes in handy in solving these lagging cases in certain courts. Of course he's asked this two-year term. But maybe he'd be more questionable in a more normal situation. But still while there are many lags, but we do not have so many items lagging behind but remains Croatia's biggest problem about the few who speak the problem of the upcoming items. But that's not just a matter of justice, or at least it's a problem for the judiciary, pending cases. Because in one country that has five million, or five million inhabitants, four and a half million people have an annual inflow in court of one million and eight hundred now thousands of cases. So something about the functioning of the entire state and all branches of government is wrong and there is no judicial system that can absorb this upcoming inflow. Everywhere in the world, the judiciary is thought of as an ultimium warring legal order. That's where the Excesses go. Justice has to solve cases, not social relations. But it solves social relations, because it's just a fact and it shows how many cases are constantly in courts, and that doesn't hurt. And so as much as we are speeding up the laws, that is, we are making laws that will simplify the procedure, to which we will relieve a number, or some kind of cases, that they do not come through the courts at all. But such a large number is alarming that each branch of government in its own executive image is what it is and why so many cases in front of courts. It's a good picture so the other branches on their own administration don't work. It is to praise this provision where it is specified when the president of the court will be relieved of his duties. It is well known that the President of the Court does not wish to object to his fellow judges who, as a rule, decide on the practicality of his appointment because they give an opinion and then logically one opportunistic position. But he needs to be encouraged, but he should be encouraged by making no rubber norms, but by making explicit norms when he has to do so, when it is not in his assessment whether he will process or not, but when simply by law he must do so and when it is not left to his values and grades. It is therefore well defined here when it does not apply, it has previously stood when it does not apply, and then the question is, how much of it does not have to be filed to be resolved. But on that trail of a solution that will be resolved by the President of the Court when he does not apply for the initiation of the procedure for the execution of a tenacity act for a judge should be equally resolved on the same track by point one and two. Therefore, when the procedure of supervision of the tasks carried out by the judicial administration determines not the illegalities and irregularities, but the illegality and irregularity, and when it does not deploy the cases, it is not the cases but enough that one case is not filed in accordance with the order of the case. In this way I say we take care and discipline all participants who must contribute to this common goal. And the Council of Judges. Maybe one more sentence. It is also very important to note that the judicial councils do not fulfil their duties and do not give their opinion and then block the work of the ministry itself, which can then not appoint the President of the Court, then nor propose any further to the State Judiciary Council the appointment of judges. And instead of being here right now, I would therefore suggest that the Judicial Council be given not only a deadline but also a sanction that the President of the Court is authorised and obliged to disband such a judicial council that he can for months, which was in practice for months did not give an opinion, and not that in Article 7 that time still exists and appointed a minister of the acting office. So that's why we're still kind of favoring the situation because we're extending its time of six months. Therefore, the exact opposite of Article 7 should be deleted so as to remain an existing solution but to put sanctions in Article 11 for a Judicial Council which does not comply with the law and does not give its opinion within a certain period. Therefore, the power to be resolved by the President of the Court or by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82316	Okay. Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82317	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government. In fact, on behalf of the Club, I was talking about the bill, and in my personal debate, I would only like to refer to the provision of Article 2 of the bill. Why? Well, first of all, it's because of one absurdity. In this law, the government proposes a legal formulation, and in the public session, it discusses the concept and shows that it is not understood. It is, therefore, the government's request in the proposal of this law that judges submit their report, which the government had in one case publicly debated that it did not know the content of the concept. The second thing I want to point out is this kind of a defined obligation for judges to file a report, in fact, I have to say that it's an attempt or an alibi for anti-corruption action related to the application of the property card. Why? Because there is no obligation in the bill of law by the judge that on the day of the application of the card, the statement of the way in which the property is acquired, the way in which the property is acquired, and that the property can be published. The second in the bill itself has no purpose or purpose set out in the law why a collection of documents on the personal data of judges is formed. From the legal standard, from the democratic practice of the Republic of Croatia, the personal obligation submitted in relation to the report of which the official is qualified by the judge for his own private legal status and for the conduct of a public duty, or now in respect of the obligation and the law laid down by that law. That's why I point to a lack of determination of that obligation. The Syntagma to which the law obliges a judge to submit a report on data and property tells of property in a civil-legal sense, so property rights is an obligation of one holder, in particular by not separating certain parts of the property which, in a civil-law sense, is always unique. No part of the official's assets is and the priori is irrelevant from the point of view of any conflict of interest, any corruption of the officials. Property and small values for the concept of low value in Croatia can be due to the dependence of officials. And it may also be the cause of the corruption of the official and the judge. Therefore, there is neither a quality nor a quantitative limit between, the property limits of the official, nor of its content, nor of its value below which the judge’s or the official’s obligation to declare it would be irrevocably terminated. In addition, I would like to say that the obligation to report assets is a personal matter, the personal obligation of officials and judges is legally prescribed and is not an obligation by the Parliament or the Government of any other body to make up for it, to make up for that obligation. Therefore, it is a personal obligation for an official to report his property, his or her property, and his or her underage children. And the objectives and purpose of this application are to submit a report on the state of its property on the day of entry, and now on the date of entry into force of this law and the establishment of a collection of documents in which the public will be able to have insight. Because there is no other sanction prescribed in this law, no sanctions are imposed if the application is filed in an incorrect or incorrect manner. Secondly, I am in charge of the basis of political and legal responsibility, however, there is no legal, envisaged legal responsibility here, so I am also in my own credibility, therefore personal ethics, which, according to the provisions of this article, is required to provide an assessment and assess this credibility by bearing its own report to the public. This is how the proposed solution enables manipulation of property cards. It even makes it possible to abuse the ministry towards a particular judge. It could, but we will not speculate now, if it is not publicly published within the time limit set by the law, and outside the law, there can be no obligation created by any act or regulation of the ministry of such matters that could cause individual judges to be blackmailed. Of course it's hypothetical, it's a hypothesis, but why not predict it when we pass the law. In this regard, I believe that the least we can do is to pass the law in the proposed form to commit that the judge has to make a statement that, that all data is available to the public and that the ministry is required within which we think it is appropriate to publish those property cards or deliver them, to make it available to the public. And the third thing I think would be good. That property cards are arranged by an authorized person. Maybe even if he was an authorized person, he'd appoint a Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82318	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82319	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm going to talk to my colleague, Leco, about just one article of these changes, and that's about property cards to simplify. Such property cards as are trying to introduce themselves to judges and the way it's being introduced is totally lame. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense. If they will fill the card at the beginning of their mandate to give important changes and at the end of their mandate, they will give it to someone who will not even look at it or put it in a drawer or throw it out the window exactly the same, it is exactly the same. In this case, there is not even a basic matter, and that is the court of the public. To make these cards public. I don't even know what the point is, and I don't know why there's so much pomp about something that has absolutely no purpose at all. Property cards as introduced to government officials, if they are not combined with tax cards, mean nothing. That stupidity we did in the Law of Conflict of Interest where we said that each of the officials should hand over their tax card and that it did not publicly produce any fruit and any purpose because the tax administration is very good at keeping records of all our incomes. The IRS knows very well what our expenditures are. The IRS is the only one who doesn't know the state of our property. If the tax administration had a state of our property, then they wouldn't have had "Cvikovs" and all sorts of others, this Cvik and his crew who have now confessed, they actually found 3 million kunas, and actually the question, 3 found, at least six hid, where they bought houses, garages, cars, and I don't know what not. They probably never had anything in their tax card. In expenditures, they probably paid taxes on that property they bought, so the house, garage, or I don't know what, but none of them on the proceeds had anything. And what my colleague Vuljanic said, with us citizens are afraid of the police, and we should be afraid of the tax collector. And if we bring these cards, where the judges are protected like bears, now we're not even bringing them a public court on their property. Tell me what's the point, he'll write a house, he'll have an apartment, at the end of his term he'll write five houses, he'll have an apartment. We know exactly how much he's had, he's an official, he's got his own salary on which he earned it. We know how well he got that money, so his salary, because I believe he can't deal with anything else, he can't fusher. So she's got her own income, and that's all she can buy from those incomes when she's paying taxes. What if he bought more? Is someone going to check it out? No one. If no one's going to check it out, so what we're introducing, property cards, we're making noise like this, and they're using nothing. Even these, even with these powers that the Commission has to decide on a conflict of interest, they are practically reduced to nothing. And this way, it's total nonsense. Total nonsense because we know of an official who was a 93rd official or I don't know what year, worth 150 thousand euros in watches. Only for hours was he supposed to work for at least four years and two months, that he didn't buy anything else. No one controls it, no one asks, so why are we introducing something that doesn't make any sense at all. And especially why we're making noises about something that's not going to change anything at all. Let's try, in fact, do, give the IRS powers to compare incomes, property expenses. ... Here's a colleague, Lesar, suggests it's called property-tax cards, and we'll see how much we've earned, how much we've paid our taxes and what we've bought, and whether we've come to that money legally or stolen it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And then we don't need any dealers, greens, racketeeres, or I don't know what they're called, we'll just ask them gentlemen how you got that money. Did you come legally to the money or did you steal it?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82320	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82321	Well, my colleague said that the judges are protected like bear, that's what I'd say, that's incorrect, but it seems to me rather harsh actually, because the protection that our judges have is actually nothing different than the protection that judges have in other democratic countries, and this is pretty harsh because you know if we remember a few years ago that tragedy in the Palace of Justice and if I know you didn't mean it, I just want to tell you that it's a profession that can very often be exposed to this kind of suffering as it was. That's why I think this structure of yours about face bears was a little over the top.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82322	Final review, Justice Minister Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82323	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I first thank you for this extensive debate on this final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. There have been proposals that have been crystallized here in the debate, and I expect some amendments that will be submitted in order to possibly correct this proposal. I would refer first to the remarks, I did say that these are minor, i.e. small changes, but of course Croatia needs roots, root procedures in the field of justice, and also in other spheres of life of this country, which the Croatian Government has been doing in its mandate, and so in the judiciary right here is the accepted strategy for judicial reform, and I think a good suggestion is that there may be a debate here on the achievements and implementation of the Justice Reform Strategy that was adopted at the end of 2005. Therefore, this law today resolves, because in the sphere of the establishment of jurisdiction and the organisation of courts, thorough amendments and provisions were made by the adoption of the basic law in December 2005. After this year’s application, some doubts and these changes have been observed and the additions actually refer to the nomotechnical arrangement of those issues that have been raised in doubt in their application. Of course, the will of the legislator was, in December 2005, the urgency was that all judges submitted their property, so to speak. Immigrant card. But apparently there was a nomotechnical awkwardness in the writing of the law. I reviewed the amendments to the final text of the proposal for the Courts Act in 2005 there were no amendments to that effect. Discussing these cards, a public debate began after the law came into force when a part of the legal interpretation was that they could also refer to already appointed judges. One part of the interpretation was that it would be a retroactive application, as it has been 30 days since their entry into service, and therefore, I believe that this text should be regulated in order to unequivocally result in that provision being applied to all judges and those new ones, as well as those who were found to be in charge at the time of the entry into force of this law. Whether it's three months long or not, I'd even accept a shorter deadline, but the way we handled it. We managed that there are around 1900 judges in Croatia, that sanctions are non-payment of salaries unless they submit within the time limit of the property card and that we could keep a record of 1900 judges whether they were filed, that this is an objectively realistic deadline, although I personally have nothing against a 30-day period, if there is an amendment we will accept. As far as secrecy and the public are concerned, they are neither classified nor public, which means they will be stored in the Ministry of Justice's property cards in accordance with the Law on the right to access information. Under this law, they will be available or not available, they will not be available. Furthermore, there has been a very strong objection that the government is proposing something that does not even know what it is, which is evident from its enquiries. I'd say the government knows very well, and we officials know very well what the property is. Property by definition is, are real estate, movables, rights and obligations. Therefore, we know just as well that all movables are property. But maybe we've all been brought into one, and I'd say maybe a little delusion with a way to fill out the pattern and form itself. In fact, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, and the manipulation of this Act was also transposed by this Law on Courts and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office on Property Cards. Why? Because it was, we wanted to open up a debate on possible restrictions because it was seen in the application of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests and that it would be more detailedly arranged, so we left it to that law, and here we passed his philosophy. So, ad absurd property, movables are all the things someone has in the household or anywhere. Is that, and that is not the law, because the limit of the law has only been set for the savings he has determined not to enter into the property card if it is below the one-year net of the official's salary. For all other movables, it did not indicate this but, for example, listed the movements of vessels, vehicles, aircraft, etc., and then listed the vessels that were registered, which may be very little or for cars, indicated that they were being reported. There's no other movement limit. I repeat, ad absurd, that would mean every washing machine, washing machine, or any household thing that I claim no one has filled out such an property card because it does not point to it in its own form and size. Other assets include, for example, art, savings, securities, etc. So, he knows but I certainly don't think we need to argue here that the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests in that part should be complemented to establish then one reasonable value limit so that it is clear to all what the movements should then be listed in the property card. Then it will be implicated on other laws that mention so-called. Immigrant cards. There was another remark here that needed to be explained, and that was an observation about the allocation of judges to work in another court. I just want to point out that even in the existing law, and now that provision is reserved so that the judge, with his consent, can be deployed at a greater distance and to a court of another type or second degree. So, with your consent. This is about determining when the judge, because of the rationalisation and efficiency of the work in the judiciary, can be addressed without his consent to work. Why a 50-mile clause? It was a former provision in the Labour Act. Today, however, according to the Civil Service Act, it is 100 kilometers. This can be discussed, but our reason was that about 50 kilometers is an area covered by a county court. We've had in mind the transfer of judges between small courts that have significantly changed the burden over a few years, so it happens that in one court we have extra judges in view of the inflow of cases, and in the other, the lack. And in order for us to be able to handle it, then we made a decision like this. Clearly, they have always given power to the President of the Supreme Court as a person who has authority and the task of caring for the effectiveness of the case resolution. As for the objection that we are not, by this law, which was expected to introduce specialised courts. For now, it is so that all major courts, for labour law, so all major courts have departments or specialised judges, and labour disputes have the character of urgency and so are dealt with. And only about the judges of the jury. In particular, the provision on the proper application of the provisions for judges and jurors resolves that doubt which has been raised in the application of that provision, which is whether the judges are subject to a provision that judges cannot be members of political parties. So to be absolutely settled then it's settled like this, and as far as the card is concerned, I wouldn't say that judges jurors can't be considered external associates who professionally solve anything. The judges of the jury are already judges and their vote in the council is as good as the vote of a professional judge. Therefore, the jury judge makes a decision and decides. Thank you very much. Here I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that this, this amendment and addition of the law be accepted because it will contribute to a more transparent and efficient work of judges and courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82324	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative, Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82325	Thank you, Mr. President. So I am correcting the inaccuracies of Madam Minister when she said that radical changes are being made by this government and, as an example, she cites the proposal for a judicial reform strategy adopted by this House. Madam Minister, just making a strategy doesn't mean that radical changes have been made. On the other hand, root changes are made when they are actually made and Croatia is too tired of passing laws and claims that we have solved the problem, and these laws never apply. So the strategy itself does not contain root changes but what it contains has not been implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82326	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82327	Your Honor, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations of a respected minister. The first one refers to property cards. I can, and possibly the minister read that there were no such proposals, but there was a proposal on the Legislative Committee when we held the debate and then there was Minister Vesna Škara Ozbolt. And then they, as proponents, accepted that they would go with their amendments. And it happened that there was no proposing, so the government, my amendments, so I didn't go with my amendment because it was agreed at the Committee on Legislatives. Second, regarding the judges of the jury. Exactly legal order should be introduced and it should be said that the provisions of the Law on Courts and apply to judges of jurors, because these are bad solutions when they are said in an appropriate manner. Then it can be interpreted for both the property cards and everything else that applies to the judges themselves. So you need to specify, by amendment, what articles apply to the provisions on jury judges, and then there will be no doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82328	Third, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82329	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote when the Minister says they're neither secret nor public. It's not true, they're secrets anyway if they're not allowed, actually if they don't commit to being public. Why? Because I know that we have the right to access information where everyone is obliged to have the data public and you can't get it, and then how are we going to get these where they're neither secret nor public?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82330	Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82331	Thank you very much. Some of the incorrect allegations were corrected by colleagues. I'll try two. Namely, the minister claims that, incorrectly, the application form is the official's document. No, I don't. The debtor's obligation is legal, and the form is an auxiliary. And one more thing. There is a section in the form even as an auxiliary means of moving assets and, for example, lists something. You falsely claim that the government did not discuss the concept of property and at the same time publicly asked whether the property of officials included horses, cows, sheep, watches, jewelry, I have no idea, and here you claim that the concept of property is known by the Government. I think it's up to the public to assess whether the government in a public session was questioning what the content of the property was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82332	And respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82333	Thank you. The Minister claimed that the amendments to the law last time were not about the need for all judges to submit property cards, or there were no amendments to quote which would correct this no-technical statement. This is neither our obligation nor our obligation, and in the debate, all the clubs of the opposition and the Committee on Legislatives have made it clear and loud that without it the law, in fact, does not make any sense to this part of the property card. Well, it's not our obligation here to nomotechnically edit the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82334	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on this final bill. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts. The amendments were submitted by legislator Josip Leko and MP Mato Arlovic. Representative Leko. We are going to the first amendment of his or her amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82336	It shall be accepted, in part, to replace the words in Article 97 in the third word added within three months within 30 days. This second part of the amendment is not accepted because it is secondly consumed in the second amendment of the second MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82337	Which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82338	Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82339	Yeah. You have seen the amendment and the representative Arlovic and this one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82340	Mr. President, I personally filed the amendment and let him say what he accepts from my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82341	It shall adopt this amendment to replace it with 30 days in Article 97 within three months. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82342	What's he refusing?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82343	It accepts this, and this second accepts the fourth and fifth in the formulation submitted by MP Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82344	Okay. Then I ask to vote on the rest of the amendment. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82345	Okay. Okay. Then in this section, it becomes an integral part of the law, in the section relating to Article 97, relative to paragraph 3 and for paragraphs four and five, please vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Then we have, but now we have a representative of Mate Arlovic. It's already been consumed. So those two thirty days are replaced by three months. It's consummated. Now to add new items six, seven and eight to the appearances of the right of insight into the property application.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82346	Therefore, it is also accepted in part this paragraph 6 and the public has the right to have insight into the property application that is accepted. The remaining paragraphs seven and eight shall not be accepted for the reason that the sanctions for non-reporting, i.e. for non-recognition of property, are provided for in the proposal of the law itself, in a way that prevents non-payment of wages, and the provision of untrue data is also the basis for the strict liability of judges which can also be subject to this. Therefore, the sixth public has the right to understand the property application is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82347	That part is accepted. Okay. It becomes an integral part, and these are the other two.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82348	Seven and eight are not accepted for the reason I said so because it's already regulated by the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82349	So, please, who are we voting for? Thank you. He didn't get that necessary majority for this part. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. From two years
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82350	It is not accepted that the deficit situation in courts is so much that it is assessed necessary to allow the judge to be moved to a maximum of two years and thus does not violate the international convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82351	No vice president. We have to vote. Please, who's in favor of that amendment? It has not received the required majority and the third amendment to Article seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82352	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82353	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Legislative Committee Amendment One.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82354	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82355	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment two.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82356	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82357	So it becomes an integral part of the law. That's it. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We're going to the vote. It also needs 77 votes for. We can vote. The result? With 83 votes in favour and one abstentioned majority of votes passed the law along with the amendments adopted. Yes, we will vote later on the Law on Youth Councils because it is necessary to make a statement to the Proposer on amendments. We continue the session Wednesday according to the agenda of education, the Law on adult education and so on towards the agenda. We'll move on to the debate on one more bill proposal, and then at 15 o'clock, the vote on the boredom of the debated points. We'll probably have seven discussed bill proposals. Now there would be a debate on – 7. Final proposal of the Law on Youth Councils, second reading of P.Z. No. 537 Proposer of the Law is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the family, youth and sports, local and regional self-government. You received the report at the session. State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, family and intergenerational solidarity Tomislav Ivic will further explain the proposal. Here you go. I'd like the vice president of House Luka Babic to take over the presidency.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82359	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The final proposal of the Youth Council Act differs from the first reading in that the applicant applied most of the proposals and remarks made in the parliamentary debate in the first reading in terms of improving the final text of the law and what is different from the proposal from the first reading is that the final draft law to units of local and regional, or regional self-government obligations to set up a Youth Council which was not defined by the first reading proposal as an obligation but as the possibility of municipalities, cities and counties to set up a Youth Council. There is also a significant difference in the fact that the final draft of the law opens the possibility that the presidents of the Youth Council may also be persons younger than 18 years of age who were not so defined in the first proposal. In addition, it is important to amend the obligation of units of local and regional self-government to provide financial resources for the work of the Council in their budgets in order to create all assumptions for the normal functioning of the Youth Council. It is also an obligation to provide local and regional self-government with spatial conditions for the work of the Council as well as to provide all necessary assistance to carry out professional and administrative tasks. And what is also significant is that the Final Bill also defines the deadline within which municipalities, cities and counties must establish the Youth Council, which is 6 months. So, I believe that by respecting these proposals and remarks from the debate at the first reading of this Law, the final proposal of the law is better and better and will have the support of this House, and finally to say that the youth network of Croatia, which brings together 60 youth associations, supported the final draft of the law. However, they have objections to the name of the law, but they are absolutely in agreement with the content and meaning of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82360	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club HSP, Mr. Representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82361	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Here is the club HSP will support the adoption of this Law on Councils of Young People, but I will certainly not say in connection with this law, as our colleague Vuljanic said about the adoption of the Law on Courts that he is disappointingly good. I'll say this law is better than the one we've never had before. The final proposal for a law on Youth Councils regulates the establishment of a Council of Young People's Action, and the selection process of members of the Youth Council, which is certainly good. In the HSP Club, we also believe that it is good that the representative bodies of local and regional and regional self-government establish these Councils of Youth as their advisory bodies, all in order to actively involve young people in public and social life, in these units of local, regional and regional self-government. However, it is unacceptable for us to actually pass this law in order to comply with the laws of the European Union, and to note that for several decades the communities of European countries, the Council of Europe and the European Union have recognised the importance and special place for young people in society and their important role in building both political and civil society. I note that we at the HSP club support the adoption of this law not because someone asks and asks us to do so but because we are convinced that this is absolutely necessary for Croatian youth and I am also wondering why we have waited until now for the adoption of this kind of quality law that actually serves for the good of our youth and nation as a whole. It is good to use certainly good experiences from other countries but why it was waiting for this period of 10, 15 years or more of such a law. It is also necessary to pass this law because so far the work and efforts of young people have not been particularly regulated to finance youth work. So far, youths have been forced to present their work and their efforts through various associations, which in most cases used young people for other purposes. On behalf of the HSP club I will say that in fact the law is well regulated by the composition of members of the Council of Youth in such a way that it is prescribed that young people within the meaning of this law are persons resident in the area of the unit of local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia for which the Council of Young People are established. But I note that in this proposal of the final law, and we have also warned that when it was the first reading that it would be good for the law to say that the Council of Young People, or members of Youth, represents members of the Council aged 15 to 29, but in the notice of young people running for council members, it would be good to set a 15 to 25-year-old limit, with a view to proposing then and an amendment, and our proposal is that the mandate of members of the Council of Youth will then be set at four years and not for two years. As far as this law is concerned, he is still prescribing which units of local self-government are established by the Council of Youth, which is set up by the units of the regional self-government of young people and the City of Zagreb. It is unnecessary, in our opinion, to choose especially the Youth Councils by county. If in this law we regulate that all elected presidents of the Council of Youth, Cities and municipalities elected in cities, the municipalities of a particular county will also be members of the Youth County Council, which would make their work, joint work and joint programmes that they would create in the area of a particular county far better. In the name of the Croatian Party of Rights Club, I will just say that it is simply good to support this law regardless of what it may have so far, because this law actually provides for our young people to be organized, to advise the current representative bodies and that they are in fact in some way affecting the work itself both politically and socially in certain local environments. We also agree with the proposal of a number of youth members because as far as I can read from this final proposal of the law that the proposal was followed and, in fact, by the Law on Local Self-Government, because I see that the number of members of the Youth Council agree with the number of members of the heads of certain municipalities, cities and counties and therefore, we do not support some proposals from some parties that these members or the Youth Council should have a far greater number of members. We believe that this would only contribute to confusing the work of young people, or unquality work. Here, in the end, I will also say that it is good to pass such a law for the reason that there is no mixing and no exploitation of our young people who can now, after this law, simply organise and work better and contribute to the work of the entire society and community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82362	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82363	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The problem of disfellowshipping young people from social life, especially those of his processes that are vital to maintaining social life, is a general problem and it is not only about the Republic of Croatia. So that's a universal problem. Young people are becoming more and more despised by the official forms of management of society and state and are naturally seeking their alternative forms which can, of course, be elements of escape. So, the young are dissatisfied. It is a general state and it has been going on for a few dozen years, and all this shows research conducted in Croatia by one of our prominent institutions, and in our explanation it is said that one of these findings is active participation of young people, I quote, is marked by mutual mistrust of social and political institutions and young people. This is a state which today is indisputable in both Europe and the world, so especially in developed countries and the question is how young people get involved, bringing closer to these official social governance processes is a very important political and social issue. By bringing this and therefore many declarations, resolutions have been made. The European Charter of the Council of Europe has been mentioned here since 1992, the White Paper of the European Union, etc. But in fact, despite all these declarations, white books in that sense have been done very little. These are general documents with many phrases and few practical attempts and opportunities to make some significant shifts in this regard. Such is our national programme of action for young people who are full of good wishes, full of phrases, few operational procedures and, of course, very little results. The establishment of the Youth Council in units of local and regional self-government is one step that anyone will know when to give their results, depending, of course, on how we treat them, depending on how much young people will be interested in such participations, how much deformation we will encounter on that path but that step should be taken. This is why the Croatian People's Party's Club supports the adoption of this law but we are free to point out a number of issues that are being raised here from the fact that this is in itself a very complicated and very demanding process or task to some of the shortcomings of this bill that we have not even tried to correct the amendments because it is actually about fundamental errors or a fundamentally different concept. For example, here we are talking about the establishment of a Youth Council in units of local and regional self-government and there is nothing to say about the establishment of a Youth Council at the level of state institutions that could and should be of greater power, and then let's say that the greater interest of young people is to participate in them. So what about the highest levels of state? Why are the Youth Councils formed only in local self-government units? Well, one municipality of a thousand people with 200 thousand kuna budgets is required under this law to set up a Youth Council. The question of how it will be able to do so and what if it does not do so but let's say the Croatian Employment Institute, which is a very important institution for what young people are waiting for and what they expect from life, does not really have the obligation to set up any youth councils without talking about those ministries dealing with economic issues, housing issues. One of the key issues concerning every man and especially a young man, and we know that there is a very difficult situation in the country, such as environmental issues for which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are particularly interested, young people should also develop that awareness. With these institutions, I list only some of them, no councils of young people are formed, or this law does not foresee it. At the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, a declarative Youth Council was formed, the minister took a good picture with young people, said it would be his most important advisers, his most important council. And after that, it happened two years ago, we heard nothing about the contribution of this important body with which the minister was photographed in creating a common policy of the ministry, especially for those levels for which that body was founded, which could improve or give the minister some useful advice. So at first, unfortunately, we are afraid and these youth councils will actually be just ornaments, only in some way to satisfy this form, show, therefore, confirm our declarative desire to do something in this sense and the way to real participation of young people, quality participation of young people in the management of local and regional self-government units, especially in the governance of the state will be long and very difficult. And I'd like to point out that some of the things that are mentioned here are simply not true, so I'm talking about an explanation. It is said that this law provides assumptions for participation and for those young people who are not involved in some organisational structures which is not true. This law does not create such conjecture. He may be opening up, not making it difficult, but he doesn't open such an opportunity anywhere. For example, in the appointment of youth councils, the right to propose youth councils has youth associations, youth associations, student councils, student choirs and other registered forms of youth organisation and one of the values mentioned in European documents is that these youth councils must be available to young people who do not belong to organisations. In this regard, for example, it should be stated in this article that the right to propose members of the youth council has ten young people from the area and municipalities that are not registered in any way other than the fact that they reside in the area of that municipality, that they are its inhabitants. With their signature, five or ten should have the right to propose a council of young people. It's a formal solution, of course, but that would be, say, opening up some time and meeting that criterion. Other issues of political influence, and under these values that are... These documents of the Council of Europe say that these councils must act independently of political influence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question is, will that be the case? According to these proposals, the political party, or their subjugation, will be able as registered forms of action where they are registered to propose a council of young people and their older fellow council members, city councils, municipal councils with all the kitchens of the political who exist there will decide, and then we can consider whether there will be political influence or not. Looking at things pessimistically, you could say that by participating in all the kitchens that exist at local levels, buying mandates and all the rest of what is going on in our yet undeveloped political system, young people will be more quickly corrupted because they will be in contact with the places where this is happening. That's how it can be set up, of course, but all these objections that I'm talking about aren't objections that would indicate that against this, they're against this. This step, however, even though it was only at this time a declarative and very foggy force and influence should be taken. And here, a lot of ironically, it's almost cynical that it's about strengthening decentralisation or strengthening regional and local self-government. Real decentralisation, of course, isn't this. So this is just one declarative paper step, and the real decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia would be the one that would at least bring us closer to the incomes of the local self-government unit to the European average, which means from today around 10 percent of the total public revenues. Of course, relations that would be transmitted accordingly. It's a decentralization. To talk about this as a element of decentralisation and subsidiarity is almost cynic. And finally a few concrete objections to this law, actually two. One article of Article 3 of this Act which, in its paragraph 2, fully unnecessaryly speaks about which young people must be, may be elected as President and Deputy President of the Council and in paragraph 1 speaks which young people, which is at all young by the definition of this law. And only in paragraph 2 repeats what is stated in paragraph 1, which actually means that the vice president and the president themselves can be all young, which is logical. It is therefore absolutely unnecessary to do so in paragraph 2 of Article 3. I do not know what the Proposer was going to say with him because if young people are defined in paragraph 1, then of course all these young people under that definition can legally be elected both for the member and for the president and for the deputy, and that paragraph 2 of this Act is quite unnecessaryly repeated. Finally, in Article 13 when it comes to the representation of the Council of Youth, it is said that the Council of Youth is represented and represented by the President of the Council of Youth and is usually represented by such a formulation when it comes to representing any body that represents and represents the President, the Vice-President or the person empowered by the President, depending on the competences and competences and the person for any particular issue and area for which representation is required. Therefore, this formulation, the usual formulation of representation at all levels and in the old or mature, should also be transmitted here because there is no need for the Youth Council to represent and represent only the President of the Youth Council. Here is a colleague and colleagues, therefore, with all these comments, along with all these dilemmas that we have set up here by the Youth Council, this law on the establishment of the Youth Council on, only at the level of the units of the local regional self-government, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support but we note that if we really think that young people should be more strongly involved in this official life of society and the state and to the greatest extent borne by politics then, of course, it will be necessary to monitor with great care what the achievement of this law will be and, of course, the Club of Representatives of the HNS will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82364	Thank you. There is one correction, Mr. Pejo Trječecic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82365	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting an incorrect quote by Mr. Rados, which is about the concern of financing the Youth Council in certain units of local self-government that have few inhabitants and small budgets. I can say there are no concerns about funding because so far local units, local self-government units have financed the work of young people but unfortunately never directly before than through various associations representing young people but as I have said for some of my other interests. So they will now, units of local self-government will reroute these funds for the financing and work of the Youth Council, which will by all means make the money more meaningful now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82366	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82367	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, we are now having second discussion here on the Proposal for a Law on Youth Councils. At the beginning of this discussion, I would like to say, in part, that we must not have too much expectation of this law. The social situation of young people in Croatia will not and cannot be resolved by passing this law. This law addresses only in a way representativeness or participation in decision-making processes, which is one very, very small segment of the social situation itself. We were saying that the night before, but I don't think it's too bad to repeat that young people today are if we are politically looking at the weakest population represented. There are young people in the population of about 18% and at various levels authorities are represented between 0 and 2%. So much sub-representation of young people by researchers who deal with young people, they say it is such a big problem that it is also considered a threat to the future of representative democracy. What further discourages is the fact that it has also been confirmed several times in scientific research that young people, however dissatisfied they are, are greatly despised both by politics and by their own participation in decision-making processes. In addition to these internal things, in young people themselves, the important factor in how many young people there are in decision-making processes, so in these places where it is decided that one of the most important factors is the willingness of the elderly to leave part of the political space or part of the power to the young. And here we are, I can even say you are not some, if we just look at the composition here in the Croatian Parliament and by units of local self-government to conclude that the parties are very reluctant to leave young people on their electoral lists. The survey on youth representation in chieftains or presidential bodies of local self-government units following these recent local elections shows that there is actually only one party in Croatia who consistently represents young people and has young people in its ranks and that all other parties have an isolated case here and there. In the already mentioned European elements, which I do not want to repeat, I would also like to point out that as a shortcut, so nothing but a shortcut to such a poor state of representativeness and participation of young people is suggested by the formation of the Youth Council. And that is the purpose of the existence of the Youth Council. One emphasis, perhaps from European documents, they say that the policy for young people is a primary issue that must be addressed at the level of local and regional communities and, according to the European Commission's White Paper, excludes Member States' responsibility but some standards and criteria are expected in policy towards young people defined by the European Commission in the cooperation process with the European Youth Forum, which is the European Commission's advisory body on youth. Only in 2001 did the Republic of Croatia launch processes to create a National Strategy for Youth, to develop a legislative framework, to instruments for the participation of young people in the decision-making process, and to create a roof national organisation. In 2002, at the end of 2002, the Croatian Parliament supported the National Programme for Youth Action, which should meet the priority needs of young people in Croatia, namely their inclusion in social life. At the end of 2003, the change in government was a major slowdown in the implementation of national policy, which was partly caused by new institutional solutions when the youth ministry was abolished and young people were integrated within the family administration of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. At the end of 2005, however, the first and only operational programme, operational plan for the implementation of the national programme, was adopted. However, even though more than that operational programme has passed over a year, there are no results. I mention the national programme precisely because it is one of the measures in the national programme, more specifically measure 75 states that it is necessary to adopt a Youth Council Act that would regulate the establishment, status and establishment of a council. The national programme I repeat was unanimously adopted here in the Assembly and found that the councils should be in charge of representing the interests of young people and the needs of all groups of young people at the level of a particular local community, coordinating activities for young people, and that youth councils should elect representatives who would participate in the work of municipal and city councils without the right to formal decision. If we know that, therefore, the fixed points for the adoption of the law and if we compare this existing law, the observation of us from the SDP in the second reading is almost the same as in the reading process, which is that the independence of the council is not ensured in taking a stand on the issue of part-time work of the Youth Council, but rather provisions on how to choose, finance, the relations of the Council of Youth and the local presidency leave a lot of room for the manipulation of the Youth Council by local sheriffs and undermining the existence and work of the Youth Council, to meet the promotional and political objectives of these same local sheriffs. One part of our remarks that we made in the first reading was adopted specifically on funding, but remains in the text of the final draft law a major dependence of the Youth Council in action by the representative body. We will submit to the Final Proposal for the Law five amendments aimed at more precisely defining the provisions of the law and ensuring greater independence of the Council of Youth and we hope that the Proposer will seriously consider and take them seriously because we are giving them in good faith to really improve the text of the final bill. And in order not to be suspicious, we in the SDP will support this bill because we have to have some kind of solution, although in order to achieve the purpose of the law it is necessary to make a lot of changes in this proposal and to strengthen some provisions and, in this respect, we expect also from the proposings to accept through our amendments and these changes. So, in the SDP, we believe that the Council of Youth must not be makeup bodies, to show the kindness and accessibility of the local leader, but by respecting all European recommendations, we consider it necessary for the Council to be truly a polygon for the co-operation and partnership of councils and local authorities, and one way to restore the confidence of young people in politics and to involve them in making decisions that concern them and young people. A few remarks through the articles. The second article sets out the objective of setting up a Youth Council and provides that the aim of establishing a Youth Council is to involve young people in the public life of the local community. If we look at what the Youth Council is doing, what it can't be the goal. The aim of the establishment of the Youth Council should be to participate young people in the decision-making process is precisely that of the Council of Youth and serve. Inclusion in social life is much more, much wider and they are just working through implementation as you have well changed local programs, actions for young people. This is just including in the decision-making processes. You here in the second reading, based on the remarks of some MPs, have predicted that in every municipality and city, the Council of Youth must be established. We think in the SDP that it's not good. To create a form just to say that somewhere in the world we have a Council of Young People and to create a structure to satisfy the form really doesn't make sense. They have some very small municipalities that do not have a single youth association, which have not even one school and the question of how it will be implemented in the first place. If we really want it right then we have to leave it to municipalities and cities who really want it and who see the purpose, not to have an empty form. The provisions of Article 5(3) should be aligned with the National Programme of Action for Youth and European Recommendations. Namely, the County Council of Youth should be established as a coordination of municipal and city councils, and there is an additional observation, an observation that we made in the first reading. We think that the City of Zagreb should be left with the possibility of forming a council of young people in city councils. The city of Zagreb has the status of the county. The local level in the city is the city's district councils, and Zagreb's urban districts and by the number of inhabitants and by the activities that take place there are greater than most cities and of all municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Indeed, it makes no sense that young people in the City of Zagreb do not have that possibility. Article 6 has experienced some changes and based on what we had in mind in the first reading. But we still believe that the way the president's work is affected by what is defined in the third indent should be defined in the law in order to achieve equality at the level of all of Croatia because that is why we are actually passing the Law on Youth Councils. The same goes for funding which is the sixth indent. In fact, Article 17 of this final draft of the law contains funding provisions so that now the indent that is lagging behind from the first reading does not need to be done at all. I mean, if it's there, then it can't say what it's like because it's not in accordance with Article 17. Article 7 is still defined according to us. In fact, we think it is necessary to establish that the number of council members should be odd and that the number of council members in a single unit of local self-government is determined by the basis of a decision on the establishment of councils and the basis of concrete situations in a particular city and in the municipality. Namely, if the number of inhabitants corresponds with the number of associations, schools or these other youth groups that have the right to propose their members to the council then it would make some sense. But connecting the number of inhabitants to the number of members of the Youth Council makes no sense because it is not generated by members of the Council of Youth and Population but rather from associations or forms of youth organisation in a single unit of local self-government. In Article 8, paragraph 2, it is necessary to add that the Youth Councils may also propose student associations, but also the movements of political parties. The movements of political parties are not registered anywhere as an organised form of youth action and they do not fall under this law. The movements of political parties in this part of exactly political inclusion on this stage of young people play a very large role, and in relation to all other NGOs, young people are ultimately as they would say from their parties depending on their actions. The moves of political parties cannot come to any tender for obtaining funds for their projects, but depend exclusively on older party colleagues, and I repeat, they are not registered anywhere as an organised form of youth action. Therefore, that should be defined there. The presidents of NGOs agree greatly with this. Article 3 of Article 8 is therefore crucial for the autonomy of the council and it is totally unacceptable for us in the SDP to elect the members of the board of young people, to be elected by representatives of the units of local self-government or representative bodies. The members of the youth council should choose the young among themselves and that is not just us from the SDP but allow me to quote point 38. The European Charter on the participation of young people in the lives of local and regional communities, which says that local and regional authorities commit themselves to design or support the Youth Councils which act as active participation bodies in which their representatives choose young people. Youth councils formed in a way that are chosen by representative bodies are not councils. Those are the advice of young people. For this reason, the Croatian Youth Network has not yet had any objections except to change the name. Because everything that's written in the law has nothing to do with councils. That's the advice. But then we won't say they're councils. This, in our first reading, we made several remarks and several models to ensure that young people choose their own representatives. However, this is not respected in any way, nor does the proposer look back on it. And we believe that this article is one of the key to the independence of the Youth Council. And if we really want to achieve the purpose of the law, and if we don't want the bodies that we can say here we have them to make up and show off, then we necessarily need to change this article. As far as the Council's work is concerned, we are pleased to add that the Youth Council is involved in the development and monitoring of the implementation of the local Youth Action Programme. However, it is still necessary to add a new paragraph, i.e. a new article that would regulate the relationship of the Council of Youth and Representatives, in such a way that the representative body is obliged to consider proposals of the Council of Youth, so as to apply to young people, not to any one, and that the representative of the Council of Youth has the right to attend the meetings of the representative body, so without the right to decide. This is not only our opinion from the SDP, it is also in coordination with the National Programme for Youth Action, which I repeat unanimously and with the will of all parties adopted here in the Croatian Parliament but also mentioned in the European Charter on the participation of young people in the life of municipalities and regions. For us in the SDP, it remains unacceptable for the provision of paragraph 2 of Article 17 to decide on a Council programme of work by a representative body. And it is again that remark on the independence and independence of the council. Paragraph 1 of the first reading is well adjusted. But it remains open what if the representative body does not approve that plan or proposal proposed only by the Youth Council. And here, of course, again comes the need for the independence of the Youth Council, which in our opinion is not well solved either in this final draft of the law. Article 17 should also add the possibility that, other than from the local budget, funds for the programming activities of the Council may be available from other sources, given that there are specific EU funds that have funds for these purposes. And the state at central level is also launching some competitions that can be reported and included in the Youth Council. And it would be bad to close the funding just, exclusively and only on local budgets. Of course, there must be an exception that youth councils cannot receive donations from political parties. And finally, in Croatia today, we already have in several cities and counties established different structures for active participation or counselling of young people. Such councils, committees, young parliaments have different names. They were founded in many cities, Labin, Karlovac, Požega, Velika Gorica, Osijek, Virovitica, Koprivnica, Oroslavlja, Gareshnica and others. We have in Brod-Posavina County, Primorje-Gorski County. However, most of them refer to the Council for Children, or they do not meet the European criteria for what should be called the Youth Council. Although some of them are called. We think that in the transitional provisions of the law there must also be one transitional provision that would say how these existing councils can be transformed or how they will be resolved that where we already have the structure we simply do not shut down but to fit it into this existing legislative proposal. And in the end, we in the SDP say we support the adoption of this legal solution. But if we do not significantly change what can be partly accepted and our amendments, we hope the Government will also give some amendments, then we will really not make a purpose that has been declared that in the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82368	Thank you. We have two corrections. First, Mr. Pejo Trječević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82369	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Young colleague Lugaric is not true that only the SDP takes care of young people, that you only put young people on lists and that you actually provide them with the only opportunity to work. I'll just say that HSP has no need for it for these reasons nor have forums of young people but with us young people are directly involved in the work. And all the research tells us that HSP has the youngest population, both in membership and in the electoral body.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82370	It wasn't, please. It wasn't exactly said which party it was, but that only one party, etc. But it's not said which one. Well, that question remains open so that the rest of us can figure it out. Correction of the incorrect allegations, also Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82371	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Since his colleague Pejo corrected this part, he knew exactly what he was referring to. I would correct the inaccuracy of a colleague who is mixing the concept of a representative body and a youth council. Namely, there is no one but the representative body to appoint a council of municipalities but a representative body in the municipality, as well as a city system because it is a legal system in Croatia. If it is determined that municipalities, cities are obliged to provide funds, then they name. And then these councils have to file a report on how they spend their resources. I don't know how you imagined it, but it's legally inconclusive what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82372	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Plasimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82373	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government. We, in our first reading, have already made clear that we will support the bill, first of all because we think it is good. Even today, when this Final Bill on Youth Councils is before us, we feel it is good to support it even now, although we have several remarks on it. It's good that the law will finally be passed. It is good that it is placed in the jurisdiction of units of local and regional, or regional self-government. It may not be the most precise and best-solved way of funding, because today it has been said, we still need to understand one more though small financial commitment for the local community. We can call it a cold drive or whatever, although it may not be significant, but for some municipalities it can be a certain financial burden. I'm willing to explain that, of course. I will now, on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, make several of our remarks, which are covered by Articles 8, 9, 11, 18 and 20. In Article 2 of this proposal for a law, the final proposal for a law makes it very clear that the Council of Youth is established by a decision of the representative body of the units of local, regional or regional self-government. It is a concept that is put forward in total by this bill. And now any other concept should change that bill as well. If we also focus on this concept that is proposed then let's talk about certain indeterminations that are also proposed in this concept. The decision to establish a Council of Youth shall, inter alia, be adopted by the members of the Youth Council. We in the Croatian peasant party believe that this should be resolved by this law. It's no good to leave it entirely to the local community first of all for the sake of young people. Each association, each candidate should have equal rights whether it is a municipality, city or county, and not that it depends, and we can say freely, about work and training, and finally the expertise of professional services available to municipalities, cities or counties. Of course, the magic of conducting the procedure will produce a series of likely dissatisfactions, which is unnecessary. Therefore, this legislative proposal should identify who sees the elections, who oversees the conduct of the elections, and perhaps one of the most important remarks, on the basis of which the criteria of the youth-organised associations propose candidates. In accordance with Article 8(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, of the one part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part. Whether the 15-member youth association will propose the same number of candidates as the 150-member association, whether each association has to propose a complete list or possibly a smaller number of candidates, means that it goes exclusively under the Law on Local Self-Government. Furthermore, we're talking a little bit about criteria. What activities the association must carry out in order to have at all the right to run or better to declare its candidates on the basis of a public call. Of course, any association registered under this law may run its members in the Youth Council. In particular, for the reasons set out in Article 1 where it is mentioned that this law regulates the establishment of a Youth Council, in part, the selection procedure for members. There is not much talk here about the procedure except that this will be determined by a decision taken by the representative body of the units of local and regional self-government. The President and the Vice-President of the Council of Youth shall be elected by members of the Youth Council. I suppose that's in itself understood, but what would be the point of standing here in the composition of the Youth Council? This may also be linked to Articles 3(2), 7(1) and 8(4) of course. It would be quite logical and normal to define precisely and precisely that the president and vice president are elected from the Youth Council. Article 9 shall refer, inter alia, to the term of office of members of the Council of Youth, in particular paragraph 2 which shall speak between themselves and the resolution. So first, it seems quite important to me. How? On the basis of an annual report or technical or administrative basis, on the basis of keeping records of the attendance of the sittings, the representative body shall also dismiss the member before the end of the term of office unless he is unjustly present at the meetings of the Council of Youth. Secondly, what is the number of sessions where a member of the Youth Council is not unjustly present to be resolved. Third, which is the process of selecting a new member of the Youth Council, whether from the same list or from the same association, at least I hope so because I assume that a member of the Youth Council does not have a deputy or, if otherwise defined, it is truly unknown. And fourthly, we propose a better provision of Article 9(2) where this solution is further determined if it turns 30 years old. I'd say here that the term of office of a member of the Youth Council ends when he is 30 years old. The term of office of a member of the Youth Council will also cease ex-legation if he declares residence in another unit of local and regional, or regional self-government as well as God do not give if the event of death occurs. Therefore, this should be put in that Article 9(2). We think that when the definition is 30 years old, if we've already decided on such a variant, it's better than the definition if it turns out to be. It can certainly be done. In Article 11, it is necessary to define who convenes the constitutive session. I guess it's gonna be a representative body, I don't know, but it's not defined here. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. On its own initiative, the President means, but on a reasoned proposal, not only on the proposal. If an extraordinary session is already requested, at least one-third should be a reasoned proposal. But now there is a single concern again, which if the President of the Youth Council does not call for an extraordinary session in case he asks for it with a reasoned proposal of at least one third of the members of the Youth Council. Any sanctions? This proposal does not define the law as saying unless all of this together relates to the Law on local, or regional and regional self-government. When we talk in general about this topic and the work of the Youth Council, Article 18 comes suddenly, which if the representative body of the units of local and regional, or regional self-government does not accept the annual report of the Youth Council, which, of course, must be submitted by the Youth Council. Is that, if there is no sanctions, just formality reporting and there are no consequences, there is no disbanding or that should be the way it should be. Of course, the same question is also asked for the work programme. If the work programme is not accepted by September 30th on a representative body, what then? Do you... as a budget when representative bodies are required to adopt the budget? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's unclear. So these are some dilemmas that should be resolved by this law, but questions are being asked. There are already 5.6 items in fact that are quite unspeakable right now. It means that almost and more than a quarter of the law should be changed. What's the concept of government? Is there going to be a solution like this, or is it going to be a solution, what will be the procedure and the way of the election? If we leave all of this behind, only one of the decisions of the municipal, city, county councils or county councils will be charming. But, well, then we're aware of any possible consequences. It'll work better somewhere. It'll work worse somewhere. If it were determined by law, then everyone would have at least equal obligations. Article 20(3), which is referred to among other things and financing, mentions that members of the Youth Council are not received ex post for their work. So, they're volunteers I guess. Paragraph 3 states: "The members of the Youth Council shall be entitled to ex post costs related to the work of the Youth Council in accordance with the decision establishing the Youth Council". Okay, well, let's assume that the decision will get rid of everything. And the way of choice, and the way of resolution, and the cost, and then why this law? Just to be like a frame. I'd like it to be in the law. What are the costs to which members of the Youth Council have the right to compensation. So these are some of the objections that are unexplained. Whether they will represent difficulties during work and establishment we will see, the practice will show. I'm afraid so. The HSS will provide support, accept remarks, not accept. I repeat, there are too many of these remarks that we would literally change the law to go with the amendments, but I just wanted to point out, and in fact, to this entire House of Commons, whether we've solved all of this by law. It's a good thing that law came to another reading. It would have been better if he had better defined these misunderstandings we talked about. We'll back him up, but I repeat, if it turns out he's got a lot of problems on the ground we'll have to go very quickly with the changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82374	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At first, you'll really forgive me if I say hello to the young. It may have really happened that today they are with us and young people, and this is the proposal of the law and at the final debate, so I welcome them as well. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Youth Councils and, as already stated in the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Youth Councils in order to achieve the better position of young people in society, their education, education, cultural and social conditions of life, the Croatian Parliament adopted the National Programme for Youth which contains 110 measures in 8 areas as early as 2002. The overall policy towards young people is based on guidelines, and today, colleagues in their discussions said, from the Declaration of the Sixth Conference of European Ministers responsible for young people based on an important guideline to ensure that young people have an active participation in decision-making, which concerns them, and to help them engage in the work of their local community. Not only because of this, as Col. Tragevic said, but also because all the research in our country shows, and so far has been done, they say that they all pointed out, and the participants in the debate, and we are all aware that young people in politics and social life participate in a very small percentage, indeed not enough. In the first reading of the Bill's proposal, everyone agreed that young people are untrustworthy of political parties, that they are difficult to engage in local communities. It is certainly our obligation to create conditions for this mistrust between social and political institutions and young people to disappear and for young people to become involved in the work of the same increasingly. Through a series of actions, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity began to implement some of the measures outlined in the National Youth Programme. In my first reading, I mentioned and reminded us of the 1st conference for young people in June 2005 at Beolasica called "Youth and Society in Transition", which singled out some of the measures chosen by the participants themselves as a priority. Some of them have already come to life in the past year, and they are realised in this year through the application of some other laws. The application of the Sport Act where, indeed, at the request of young people, they are increasingly involved in and given priority in these activities. One of the requirements of youth was enhanced youth information on employment opportunities and entrepreneurship. As I pointed out and reminded myself of my first debate, we stated that after this first conference in 2005 it was held in October and the first regional conference for youth in Kutina, which took part in 5 counties, with the theme "The implementation of the National Youth Programme at local level". And therefore, the conferences in Split, Opatija and Varazdin were held immediately and all participated except for the representatives of young people and local authorities, which was of great importance. Not only because of the sensitisation of local authorities for the problems of young people and their active involvement in solving youth problems, but also because it is just such an initiative at a conference in Kutina and encouraged that young people should be organised and act through the work of the local community. And now let me look specifically at the law. The proposed Law will certainly help young people organise themselves, work through their own bodies to carry out the design of the programme, but also act towards the local community. So I think that young people, here, Radoš mentioned, can also be involved in solving employment problems, which is very important for them, and in solving many other problems. Right through work and through the interest of the local community for their problems, and who else will warn the local community rather than themselves. Although in the first reading of several participants of the debate, she pointed out that this Law did not solve the problem of young people, and today we could hear that it was proposed only in a declaration. We believe that this Final Proposal for a Law on Youth Council is a significant step towards which young people have a legal framework for their activities in the local community. The promoter accepted a large number of remarks and suggestions after the first reading by representatives clubs and some MPs, and thus really improved the proposed Law. It is good that the proposer has accepted the proposal to prescribe the obligation to set up a Youth Council at each local level in Article 2 as this balances the possibility of young people in all environments. We also welcome the adoption of the proposal to move the age limit for members of the Youth Council from 15 to 29 years. The proposal also complemented Article 8 which discusses the selection of members of the Youth Council to extend the possibility that, in addition to youth associations and associations dealing with young student councils, student assemblies may propose members and other registered forms of youth organisation. This has enabled a very large number of young people to make their personal decision and engage in the work of the Youth Council. As part of his fellow MPs also proposed changes in the work of the Youth Council, the applicant noted that the Council is involved in the development and monitoring of the implementation of the local Youth Action Programme, as it certainly can and must have an impact on the programme. According to accepted proposals, it calls upon representatives of the body of units of local, regional (regional) self-government at the session, which is also good for the representative to participate in the work of the Youth Council and, as it can later in certain, in certain places, precisely and at the right time, to convey what young people are ordering to certain bodies and councils in the local community. In the first reading, there have been a lot of objections from all stakeholders to the financing of the work of the Youth Council, so it is good that the Council, for the Council, for the work of the Council in Article 17, provides for mandatory financing of the Council of Youth in the budget of the units of local self-government, regional and regional self-government, as this will ensure the means for the work of the Council, and will not be given up to whether anyone wants or can or cannot finance the work of these Councils. The Youth Council shall draw up its work programme approved by the representative body of the units of local self-government and regional, and shall, accordingly, also submit an annual report on its work from the local budget. With this solution, I think it is well-rounded that from proposal, approval, funding, to responsibility for the implementation of this programme, young people have just been involved in their work since the beginning. Unlike the proposal in the first reading of the unit of local, or regional self-government, i.e. the professional services of representative bodies shall be required to carry out professional and administrative tasks for the Council of Youth. This is what we suggested in the first reading of the Law precisely because they are given full support and to enable those who professionally lead them to assist them in the work of the councils themselves. In order for the proposed Law to be not really declarative, it is good that Article 22 of the first reading is complemented, i.e. that the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government are obliged to set up the Youth Council within 6 months, which at this time means the security that these Councils will revive and become an active part of the local community. Finally, as the Law received most of the votes in the first reading, it was directed to the second reading. I hope that this is the way to fix, complemented by proposals and distinguished remarks will be brought first and foremost because of the young people we have all advocated and eventually the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will accept the Law on Youth Councils as not only one measure from the national programme, but also as a priority in society, care and concern for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82376	Thank you. We've just run out of time to sign up for 10 minutes. It's Mrs. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac's turn on behalf of the IDS club. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HSLS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82377	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There's a very important law in front of us, a law on youth councils that would, so I'd like to apologize and say hello to gallery and young people who listen to all this. And maybe it's actually an opportunity to talk a lot wider about the very problem of young people than this, from the intensity of this law alone. Obviously, sometimes in the paradigms in society has changed, and it is not only that I do not know the Croatian phenomenon that young people do not participate in political, social, public life, but that after those tumultuous, tumultuous European '68, so our 70s that obviously politics and those older have all done that every young person actually engages in public engagement, political engagements and that they actually have one negative, negative attitude towards any participation in political, public and social life. And we are actually the same witnesses that here in Croatia and some research that says that in fact our young people follow this general trend and that they do not actually participate as a political subject, as an important factor in life, but simply in some way with their apathic, indifference achieve this very state of politics, or public life is not at least in the right way cannot solve their problems. And it also seems to me that in fact only this Youth Council Act cannot solve all the problems, that it is just one of the elements that I could not know to contribute to creating one positive environment, one atmosphere where we could create assumptions that we are just changing there, we have to acknowledge this negative perception of public affairs. I think we should say without one more radical reform in the field of education, that even the sphere of employment that all this story is actually going to remain just a dead letter on paper. Because simply today what we need to think about here, especially legislators, which is really how to create these assumptions for life that will take place in the next ten or twenty years or how to create such assumptions in society that indeed our young people can be competitive on that European market, that they can participate in all these games and the rules of the game will be very high, standards very high. If you cannot fulfill them, then you will come out of it and in some way create a bad society or bad vibrations in society if you have this very perspective of hopelessness, pessimism, very difficult to deal with. We want to be part of the European Community, members of the European Union, and that will mean a free flow of people, goods, values. So that's what people who are just going to get into a game like that can do first. If a good atmosphere is not created there, if these assumptions are not created, and this can only be created with a really good education, the willingness is that our people, too, young people are first and foremost competitive and that they really cross those limits without a problem, as air currents do. But from something... They are free to move and there are no problems, problems in language communication, problems in knowledge and skills, rather than simply being equal if not better than their generation in the European Community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They say the world is moving with this first step and now will this Law on Youth Councils be the one to solve these problems? We can just do this for ourselves, one "apaurin" policy to say here, something we've done, so there's now this first step to moving into that world. In some ways, how young people actually introduce to enter, to participate in public life at the level of these local and regional and regional self-government. There are, and I remember the same thing, we did it out there in Osijek when it was prescribed established by the Youth Council but you'd have solved that legal obligation but I have to admit, I don't know if that credit was mutual but nothing other than that, nothing happened. Nor was it this positive aggression by the Council of Youth that I do not know, that they impose some of their problems, their priorities that we would have to address and neither be honest nor have this presidential body received, except for that, certain reports of their work. Nothing less or less has ever done. I'm afraid that the situation is neither better nor worse today but simply something just works all that exists but its functioning is still far from what, from that projection that certainly this Bill on Youth Council and contains. Here, too, if we now move on to some specific details, it can be read in Article 2 that the Youth Council is, above all, an advisory body aimed at actively involving young people in public life. However, the question must again be asked, and who will guarantee that decisions of the Youth Council will be really discussed by the representative bodies of the local self-government and administration units? You know, simply some, in some ways there are some things, but I say without any effect or any sanctions if something isn't brought. Article 8(2) states that candidates for members of the Youth Council propose youth associations and associations dealing with young people, student councils, student choirs and other registered forms of youth organisation. And then those other registered forms of youth organization, that's what it is when we say that it's... and in fact, the nearer doesn't define and then exactly this incomplete, fairly vague and empty content of that concept is empty, opening up the possibilities of a whole series of political manipulations, because the registered forms of youth organisation are both political parties and then certainly there is a possibility that certain representatives of political parties, young representatives of political parties, who would in fact be in some way only the trabs of the ruling political parties in a particular city, municipality or county. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think that this item should in some way be modified in terms of detailing it in order to avoid these manipulations because there really is no need for one to praise the Council of the Young People and then the Council of the Ages to praise the Council of Youth and thus to create an illusion that everything is working and the problems I say are important and it seems to me that these are the problems of education, the problems of employment, the opening up of the perspective, because in the end it says it is not our people without the devil saying that the younger world remains and it is the only obligation that we are going to leave to them. I'm saying, of course, it's not good to leave them a messy world that's gonna be burdened with problems and they're supposed to pay our wrong decisions and misjudges. Article 9(2) states that the representative bodies of the units of local or regional self-government will, before the end of the term of office, resolve a member of the Youth Council unless he unduly attends the meetings of the Youth Council. And this should be defined more precisely because, as far as I know, even those who do not know, who get a mandate from the citizens, so let's look at this Assembly, I don't remember that we have ever been in full numbers here, and this one, or if we don't sanction ourselves, then it's also very difficult for us to decide, or that we ourselves, who are a very, very, very good part of ourselves who aren't coming, to take away the right to have them decide what is justifiable and what the unjust non-presence of some of the Council of Young People and thus to regulate that matter. I don't think it's the best way. Articles 11 and 12 shall also set out the regular call for meetings, the way they are called together, the way of calling for an extraordinary session, the way decisions are taken, etc. This should not be prescribed by legal provisions, as the way the Council of Youth works and functioning should be prescribed and regulated above all by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Youth Council. It means putting it down to that level, not that it's like this, that the law gives this kind of commitment, of course, to recommendations, but I'm still saying that I'm going to leave it to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Youth Council. But regardless of these remarks, and it seems to me that this Law on Youth Councils will remain exactly something as a good proof of our good and noble will to something, that we are based on this problem, to follow the instructions of the Council of Europe, in general all these resolutions, the declarations that have been made in the meantime, to organise seminars. And it's all good and it's all... And we don't mind, but it seems to me it's just going to be one cute declaration so once some chronicler for 50 or 100 years will tell us, this assembly of Parliament and these MPs were sensitized for these problems, if we don't actually hit a little deeper, and that's, above all, the real question of the future, the perspective, the involvement of young people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because at the end of the day, this apathy, in fact, is responsible for the general state of society, and it is not possible and I don't know that young Europe and those in our areas of the 1960s and '70s were really interested in the world they live in and that today we don't know that our entire rebellion of our student population is actually based on eating problems which certainly is not a small problem and we can understand... student standard and that simply this overall political, social, economic situation of those people who are going to get into that life tomorrow, too, that they are not interested in it at all, that they are not articulating and they really have a lot of right to be dissatisfied. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that's where and where bigger problems are going, and that requires one thematic debate in this House that it is also being considered from that book that was made here in 2002, 2003, by the institute. In some ways, it is a pity that one thematic debate is not organized at that time. But without saying, and with these remarks, the HSLS Club will vote for this Final Proposal for the Youth Council Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82378	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82379	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Round Table on Youth Councils was held in Varazdin around the first and second readings of this law, where representatives of youth associations said what they really think and how they experience the adoption of this law. In doing so, I must say that both the city of Varazdin and the Varazdin County have overrun the legislators, and in the city and in the county, the council of young people is already acting. However, that is why, and whatever the law has not prescribed so far, it would be interesting to hear in what way or in the transitional period how to agree the work of the current youth councils with the councils of young people who will now be established. I'd like to ask for an explanation because from the first reading there's a little difference. It is clear to us that the decision to set up a council of young people to be taken by a representative body but it seems to me that one of the fundamental principles that the way of the youth council influences the representative body should nevertheless be defined by law. Because otherwise, we're going to have a lot of colorful solutions from someone who's going to be pretty comfortable giving more young people the right to have that influence of the youth council quite minorly. So I personally think that Article 6 should be done more precisely and better and better. What I have the biggest comment on is Article 7. If the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government also had a certain number of members, depending on the size of the different municipalities, and we have different municipalities here, we now define up to 10 thousand and 1 further, it seems to me that if we should leave anywhere and allow representative bodies to show their own local color, our own specialities that then it should not be necessary to define to the end the minimum number of young council members, but to define which one is the largest. In particular, you have cities outside the city of Zagreb where you have more associations and therefore representatives of young people, where you also have a possible university. So to define now in one city of thirty or more thousand people that it's only nine to 11 members of the youth council seems unnatural to me at this hour. For example, the city of Varazdin has twenty-four members in its Council of Youth right now. This was done because there are far more interested youth associations than the legislator puts it. In doing so, I don't think I should, so I'm stressing that the number of members of the youth council should not be handled. If they deserve counties anywhere, cities and municipalities to show their speciality is on one side. It's another matter of funding. It seems to me that the programmes of the youth council or the work of the youth council must or should be financed, it will be colourful. Somewhere someone will fill a large city of thirty or more thousand inhabitants with their obligation to finance the work of the youth council with 5,000 kunas. The matter is arranged, however, how good or how bad it seems to me that some criteria should be laid down here, and for example here I am giving perhaps an idea which is blasphemous but let's say that for the work of the youth councils it is necessary to provide 0.1% of the original funds in the budget of the municipality, city or county. By the way, to mention this number, we have municipalities, it seems to me the municipality... which is the smallest in the Republic of Croatia and we have municipalities, for example in Varazdin County, which have eight, nine thousand inhabitants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For all of them, a range of five to seven members of the youth council is foreseen. It seems to me that in the municipality of Civilians it will be difficult to find these five and, for example, in the municipality of Trnovec Bartolovsky in Varazdin County where there are also a large number of associations it will be difficult to meet the needs and everything that young people would like with seven members of this association. That is why it is necessary and here I think that this amendment given by the SDP club is very good at Article 10 concerning that the representative body still has to consider any proposal that gives the Council of Young People to consider. And with regard to funding, it seems to me that it would be good to install into the law that any programme for young people cannot be financed without at least thinking, if not positive, means without the opinion of the youth council. That's how it looks to me to get quality. On this round table in Varazdin, young people have expressed their desire, meaning that the concept does not correspond to what most youths want. They want to directly delegate their members to the youth council. I, too, am now making an observation regarding Article 8. If we want and trust in young people, why not lead to the fact that the representative body is obliged to accept the suggestion of youth associations that have run for office. Perhaps they form some kind of coordination, agree who will be members of the youth council, and we are aware of that, especially in the larger environments, larger cities, the counties that politics has a crucial impact, and then we will in some way pollute the atmosphere in that youth council because there is likely to be an end to the favouring of its "own political thinkers". It seems to me that this would be a significant step if it were accepted, however, means that the representative body accepts or just confirms what young people or propose for youth councils. It seems to me that there's still enough time to accept and in some way a solution would be far better and better quality. The law itself, we must be aware, will not resolve the impact of young people on local policy because here everything is about local and regional policy. It has already been said in discussions that nothing here is said about the state level, but if we're going to do this locally let's let that influence of young people be realistic. I've made a few suggestions and suggestions, I don't think they're the best quality and best solutions, but this kind of solution that I will personally support is better than nothing. Because the fact is we've had nothing so far, it's been left to a local environment. In this way, it will be good and good, but it would also suggest that, with regard to Article 16 of the Youth Council, they adopt a work programme for the calendar year, we should link it to the way local budgets are adopted. Therefore, a deadline should be set for the adoption of the Youth Council programme on the basis of which the programme can then be adopted and the financial plan can be adopted, as normally, if we do not have this coordinated, the easiest way to say it is either to say it at least when the local budget is to be adopted or to confirm the work programmes of the Youth Council together with the financial plan. Then that would make sense. Because if we go beyond that context, then the question is which sources will provide financial resources as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82380	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82381	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the final bill is something better than the proposal of the law in the first reading, and in this respect, I give recognition to the applicants because a whole series of remarks that the MPs have made are also including some of the remarks that I have made myself. However, I think it would be good to postpone the statement on this law for a while because there are still a few open issues that should be discussed, and possibly also to correct the amendments to the proposings, so that the law is even more quality and even better. The first question that is both formal and substantive is actually about the issue of youth residences and the question of the authority of the Youth Council. If Article 10 is looked at, then it is seen that the Council is discussing, proposing, giving an opinion, taking part in the development and implementation of local action for young people, drawing up a report, proposing measures, caring for information, and so on or better said that it plays a discriminatory role in relation to the representative body of the local self-government unit. However, in Article 3, when you look at yourself, you see that we have actually determined that young people within the meaning of this law, so those who can be elected or proposed to be elected to the Youth Council must have their place in the area of that unit of local self-government and, of course, they must be between 15 and 29 years of age. Now a very important question is being asked. What about university cities? You know it will be very interesting how to disable in university cities students who, of course, do not have a residence but have residence status to exercise the right through student associations to be proposed in these, in these youth councils and that they can practically discuss those issues of interest for young people and for the development of sports, culture, and in particular the positions of universities in society or in that city, that unit of local self-government. And that's why I think we should consider the possibility. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State if he can pay attention. I think we should consider paying particular attention to the introduction of another article in Article 3 for university cities that students can also be applied to youth councils in these university cities through student associations. Secondly, my second observation is a matter of time. The law stipulates that Article 22 will set up a youth council within 6 months. But the question arises as to what time will the decision on the establishment of the youth council be made. Because the decision is substantive, it needs to be elaborated and it needs to be taken by the city council or municipal council. Therefore, it should be prescribed and proven and this act must be adopted and I am not sure that there is a realistic 6-month deadline, taking into account that representative bodies and units of local self-government must normally meet within 3 months once. My third objection is to the number of members of the Council. Of course, this is fine when you take an average municipality or a unit of local self-government, but if you take very small municipalities that have several hundred inhabitants, then it is not possible for that municipality or for those municipalities to form youth councils. And it's not even, it's questionable whether they have enough young people in their space by associations established in associations to suggest it. And that's why you should see how and how to solve that question. For me, it remains, of course, a conceptual and conceptual remark in Article 8, paragraph 3. This shall be written on the basis of written and reasoned proposals by the authorising officer of the applicant referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article to the members of the Council of Young People's Choices and to the resolution of the representative body. I don't see why they're representatives of young people. You know, if they are representatives of young people, then we have to give young people the right to have a certain number of young people they choose and they represent them in the municipal council, represent their interests, and so on and so on. And in that respect, I am in favour of that other solution that the City Council, the City Council, the County Assembly is making a decision on the establishment. It sets out the conditions and criteria for who can be a candidate and leaves the right for associations or authorised associations to propose candidates. Not to propose candidates but to establish on the basis of these criteria the candidates and to execute the choice and therefore inform the Council that they are members of the Youth Council. Then it's far, far more important and far more important by my deep conviction. The fifth remark is related to the deadline. It is not good to put the Youth Councils to choose for two years. They need to be tied to the local community's mandate. A representative body of the local community for a simple reason because at that time they must have the opportunity to, at least through an advisory and discussion function and a proposing role practically as some working body, influence the attempt to put on the agenda, protect and achieve the interests of young people. In this respect, it is quite clear that this issue that the Youth Councils regularly hold meetings at least once every two months, the question arises, and why, when the City Council and the Municipal Council in this context, it is weak to sound you, in this context it can, in that context, be bound every 3 months. Therefore, if, every three months, this Municipal Council then needs to be harmonised to be given that they will communicate and perform certain tasks and related to the work of the Municipal Council there. In Article 12(3), the question, of course, of conflict of interest is raised. It's very interesting where it's noticed about ownership, about, I don't know the shares and so on. And what about now with a possible conflict of interest if it's a young... I don't know why. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What if it's a young person who's a member of the Youth Council who's employed in a legal person? And at the same time, this legal person should achieve some of the projects that protect or implement the rights of young people. I think that's the kind of situation you should bring. And there's still this question that's better asked, but it's not solved until the end. This is a question of where the youth councils should bring their programme, actually deliver to the representative body, and at the same time the question is that the representative body actually decides on funding and financial resources. Now the question is, when should we get to that program? I think it should be sure before the budget is passed. However, a minimum obligation and programme content should be laid down in that segment to protect the interests of young people, which should be financed by the city council. Of course, not all megalomaniac projects that should be financed or solved in this respect can be accepted. And the last thing I would like to say is that it was also necessary to give guidance to local self-government units that, in addition to these contents that the law prescribes that they can, by making a decision on the establishment of youth councils and extend not only their jurisdiction but also the possibility of their own interests, depending on the economic and private opportunities and opportunities in the field of these units of local self-government, in order to actually be able to address them properly. I have seen colleagues and a proposal for amendments among other SDP Representatives' Club that raises the question that youth councils can also be established in urban districts or quarters. However, this raises the question, there should be a broader question, in fact whether a council of young people can also be established within local self-government when it comes to the interests and issues of the youth councils not only in large cities but also in other units of local self-government where such opportunities exist. And of course there remains an additional issue in this segment where it is trying to tie up the candidacy here, I am particularly referring to this, that members of the youth council are proposing from youth associations, youth associations, student councils, student choirs and other registered forms of youth organisation. This other registered forms of youth organisation implies that young people who are organized into special sections, forums or forms in political parties, or better said if, so could be interpreted as not to be excluded. As in some interesting organizations if they come into existence. For example, in trade unions or I don't know about employers, etc. young people. It therefore raises one interesting question that this depoliticalisation is difficult to implement because only presenting the youth councils as a representative body of young people who do not have the role to decide, but has a decision to run, propose and so on. In itself is one form of political work, and the political work of young people, so not only of interest. And in terms of actually that should have worked it out by the end, to open up at the end. This creation of these youth councils also has an educational function to train young people and attract them to a multi-party system, to democratic relations and to acquire as much knowledge as possible in these relations as possible tomorrow, to represent the interests of all our citizens, regardless of each aspect, will join them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82382	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Bisserka Perman's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82383	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my debate, I would like to say that I support the adoption of this law in order to more actively involve young people in daily activities and problems and to address them, especially those issues relating to the content and quality of their lives. Given the fact that this law is relatively short, and we have already heard a lot about it in previous discussions, I will be very brief in my debate. I want to look at just a few details, or ask a few questions. In the light of the final proposal of the Youth Council Act within the framework of the proposal and the opinion which the applicant did not adopt among other things, I quote: "The number of members of the youth council in the context of avoiding inequality in the selection of youth council members should be defined by a decision...", I underline this by defining the decision to set up a youth council in a way that provides for equal treatment of the applicants who will propose candidates for the appointed number of youth council members.", finished quote. I ask the question how will the decision-maker on the establishment of the youth council know what to define by a decision if it does not appear in the law itself, and he does not have the text of this argument and, moreover, in a chapter which the legislator did not adopt. Moreover, I still have one very important question in mind that I asked at the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports session, which, unfortunately, I did not get a satisfactory answer for myself, so I want to repeat it again on this occasion. In the meantime, the proposings may have been able to agree on this, so the issue will also be given a concrete answer in order to obtain practical application in addition to the declarative nature. My question is, what happens if, according to Article 22, a youth council is not established within six months? What are the sanctions, who's going to take them, and who's going to carry them anyway? Two dilemmas, i.e. possible situations, were imposed on this issue. The first is the situation, if there's an interest in the field, but local self-government doesn't want to implement it. This situation can occur in larger municipalities or cities where there are a number of young people active in various societies and associations, or individuals who want to do something about the affirmation of young people in society. Another possible situation is the opposite, the local self-government wants, but there is no interest in young people. In fact, this situation can occur in small units of local self-government where very few young people are, so mostly in underdeveloped municipalities with very few inhabitants on islands and similar to whose budgets are said to be so difficult to finance their activities so far, let alone something else. What will happen in these situations? There's no answer. The introduction of mandatory establishment of youth councils in units of the local community requires amendments to their statutes and rules of procedure on the work of representative bodies of units, so I am not sure whether this will be possible within a period of 6 months, especially when it is taken into account that the application procedure and the selection of members of the youth council should also be implemented during the same period. It also raises the question of the financing of councils for which no financial resources are provided for this year's local community budgets. It seems to me that these questions and doubts impose the need for this law to be cleared once again before the final adoption so that all these problems, in order to be defined in a good way by law. One way is to improve its final text to its own amendments. In the end, I'm going to mention an amendment she just filed. Article 11(3) states that the President of the Youth Council may convene an extraordinary session of the Youth Council on his own initiative or on a proposal of at least 1/3 of the members of the Youth Council. I believe that this item should be amended by defining that the President must convene the Council on a proposal of 1/3 of the members and that the text relating to his own initiative should be expelled, given that he normally convenes meetings as necessary, so that his initiative does not need to be defined as an extraordinary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82384	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82385	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. First of all, I will say that I support this Final Bill on Youth Councils, which is in front of us because it will certainly contribute to improving the position of young people and their greater involvement in the social but political life of local communities. So, units of local self-government, municipalities, cities and counties. It is also important to stress and I will support this Law for the reason that it is actually the first institutional form of youth organisation in these last 15 years. So far, young people have been left to their own initiative, therefore, to civil society institutions to organise themselves, therefore, in associations to shape, therefore, their interests and their actions. First of all, in this debate, I'm going to look back at those things that I was talking about and in the first reading, which are respected but a certain part is not respected. So, what I suggested. First of all, I think it is good, unlike some colleagues and colleagues, that the first reading is an important proposal on the obligation to set up a Youth Council. It was stated in the first reading that the Council of Youth can be established. I think that's good because that's how they're going to force themselves first of all into those little municipalities. So, if they tried to at least set up a Youth Council because I'm afraid that otherwise some local self-government units wouldn't even try that, and it certainly wouldn't be good. I would also agree with this proposal, which was presented by my colleague Lugaric, to enable the establishment of the Council of Youth and the city districts of Zagreb in Article 5, because I think it is still big neighborhoods that deserve and should also have the possibility to set up such councils. As regards the provisions of Article 8(2) which determines who may propose candidates for members of the Youth Council, I think that the current formulation in relation to the first reading formulation is much better. It was then proposed that I could propose certain legal persons, which was too broad a concept that would certainly bring about a lot of confusion and problems in the application, i.e. the implementation of this article. However, I think, and here in the debate, it was also said that with the associations and what is defined in Article 8 that candidates should be able to propose registered forms of youth organisation should also be allowed to those young people who are not involved in any association, i.e. in these forms of youth organisation, so that they can highlight their candidates, therefore, and that they can be elected to the Council of Youth. That's what my colleague Radosh was talking about. And in order to avoid any doubt as to what are registered forms of youth organisation, I think it is good to specify that the rejuvenations of political parties have the opportunity and the right, therefore, to run for their representatives in the Youth Council. As regards Article 9(2), I proposed that, for reasons to be resolved by a member of the Youth Council before the term of office, the exemption from the provision "if he turns 30 years of life". So, I suggested that given that the mandate of the Council members would, as proposed, last 2 years, therefore relatively short. That a member of the Council who would eventually end 30 years of his life in the term of office should continue until the regular end of the term of office. So, until new elections, not to be resolved because he turned 30 years old. If the mandate is to be limited to 30 years of life, it would be better to introduce a provision that would, by law, suspend the term of office of a member of the Youth Council when he turns 30 years of life, not to be resolved. I therefore propose that the Proposer reconsider this proposal once more. I would also refer to Article 11. The law. In fact, in my first reading, I made certain remarks that were not respected. They refer to the provision that the president of the Youth Council can call an extraordinary session on his own initiative. I don't see why the president of the Youth Council would call an extraordinary session at his own initiative, since he's authorized to call a session, so regular, whenever he wants. So that's exactly his own initiative. Its only limit is that the session must be convened at least once every 2 months, as defined in Article 11(1). If it is also intended to retain the possibility of calling for an extraordinary session, then it should be defined in what circumstances and conditions the president calls for an extraordinary session. First of all, it should be specified that these are exceptional circumstances. Also, according to this proposal for a law, the extraordinary session is convened by the President and at least 1/3 of the members of the Council, but remains open to what if the President does not call it and refuses to call it. Who's gonna call her or can call her? I think there should be a more concrete definition of what happens in that case. I also spoke in my first reading and I had certain objections to Articles 16 and 17 concerning the adoption of the annual work programme of the Youth Council, the planning of financial resources, the approval of the representative body on the Youth Council programme. I think the current solutions and provisions are much more quality and more concrete than the first reading because I think it is logical that the representative body of the local self-government approves the work programme of the Youth Council because the budget, therefore, provides for the provision of financial resources, therefore, in the budget of the units of local and regional self-government. So, here are some of my suggestions that should possibly still be done to improve this Final Bill. And I repeat once again that I will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82386	Thank you. There is one replica of Mrs. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82387	I thank my colleague first... which you will support some of these amendments of mine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I would still like to consider this provision once again that the Council of Youth must be established in every municipality and city. You said you supported such a provision. I would be the happiest to think and all of us here are MPs and MPs in the Parliament if indeed every municipality and city had a Council of Youth. However, we have a community of 130 or 170 residents who have absolutely no qualifications to be elected by the Youth Council. So there's not a single association, there's nothing, and they have to have a youth council of five to seven members in their article. I repeat, there are 130 residents there. Therefore, I think it is much better to make it, that it is, that we put a provision to be somewhere in municipalities and cities where it really has conditions, which have an interest to do so, to really inform the Council of young people and those who do not have to form bodies without meaning. We as a Parliament can have a certain instrument to sort of conditionally say and control it. We can request reports at the end of both the ministry and the government to submit to us where it is formed, where it is not, why it is not where it is not. So we have a certain control mechanism and eventually pressure to form something like that. But really in some smaller environments where there are no simple associations, where there are no schools because unfortunately we have such municipalities. Of course the counter argument says well but then such environments must not even be municipalities. But unfortunately, that's not the problem now. We have a situation that we simply have a lot of small municipalities that we're going to force to form bodies without a trace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82388	Thank you. Mr. Sesvetchan's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82389	So, I have also suggested that in the first reading that it should be determined that, above all, the municipal councils, therefore the representative bodies of the local self-government are obliged to set up or approach the establishment of the Youth Council so as not to put pressure on them as you say, but it is best to regulate it by law. I will repeat what I said, therefore, if the possibility of establishing a Youth Council were left, I am afraid that these small municipalities would not even try to set up a Youth Council because they would say in advance, so we have a very small number of young people or we have no associations and therefore these forms which can therefore be proposed by candidates for members of the Youth Council. And that's why I think it's important to define here what I've suggested I can and can run individually, so young people in these youth councils along with associations that are foreseen by the current proposal. Thus, it would also facilitate the establishment of these youth councils in smaller municipalities where I repeat they do not have certain forms, organisational forms of a particular association.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82390	Thank you. And as last in today's debate, Mr. Representative Miroslav Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82391	Thank you very much. ... I will continue the list, which is actually a lady and gentlemen, standing here somewhere between this replica and the reply to the replica between our esteemed colleague Lugaric and colleagues, Sesvecan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, the transitional and final provisions of this law determine that Article 22 states that the representative bodies of the units of local and regional, or regional self-government, shall establish a Youth Council within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law. So, although there's someone here a little earlier than my colleagues sitting next to me who said what this is this week everyone in the Parliament agrees on the passing of these laws, everyone supports them. Of course, no one thinks about this situation, nor does it support this Bill on Youth Councils, but one perfectly logical question is indeed raised on the trail of these amended replicas that I have already mentioned. In fact, not only are there municipalities and units of local self-government that have no basic conditions at all to set up a Youth Council. Because, in fact, there are no young people, but Mr. Sesvečan said in response to this replica if there was no obligation, that's why we wanted to make this commitment so that some municipalities didn't establish youth councils at all. That's how I quote it. Therefore, they would not have established the Council of Youth if there were no such law and such legal obligation. In principle, I agree with my fellow High Priest who said that. However, I ask all of you here a question according to this law what will happen if some municipality or city does not establish a Youth Council? What's gonna happen? Nothing. Nothing to anyone. Namely, there are no sanctions. There are no criminal provisions. There's nothing in this law that's supposed to happen. It's almost like we're passing the Tax Act and then there's no criminal sanctions. If you pay the tax well, we cut what it takes to be that tax, how much it has to be paid, who needs to be paid. It's all settled in the law, but whoever wants it right, who doesn't want it right again. What kind of laws are these? Forgive me, gentlemen, no matter what I am in favour of the Youth Council. I'm actually asking you if it's finally enough for me to bring laws in the Croatian Parliament that don't really commit anyone to anything, but rather recommend it to him, and even write him a six-month deadline, but if that law is not respected to anyone. I don't see what the purpose of these laws is, what we're actually doing, what we're showing the public, Europe, the civilized world, or who we don't know, that we've adopted the standards of establishing a Youth Council in all units of local self-government. It doesn't matter. And finally, in the end line, I ask the question if we really want to adopt those standards, then why doesn't this law bear the P.Z.E. mark? For what reason? So let's adopt those standards. No, it's like this I would say more than one more of the many unfortunately many laws that we have passed in the Croatian Assembly that no one will or will, we leave to the citizens whether they respect it or not. We leave the will of the government of local self-government at the level of municipalities and cities to respect that law or not. They will find hundreds of excuses of funding, of space, of this, of whatever you want, an excuse will be found why the Council of Youth and No-one was founded. That is why I would really appeal to start in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of whether we want to achieve a civilizational level or just show the public and the world that we respect or that we are sensitive to the problems of young people or I don't know what, but simply to pass a law that will enable these young people to act in the way they should act and so that it is prescribed to the old people that they have to enable them, rather than that they are declaratively determined by the elderly and those in power to make it possible for them, because ladies and gentlemen, by the content that there are no sanctions or criminal provisions or anything for those who are bonds of establishment of the Council of Youth and these are the units of local self-government, in fact, it is a matter that I would say one declarative level, so that this document, which is called the Final Proposal for the Youth Councils, could be called, in fact, not the Youth Council of Youth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82392	Thank you. And a brief review at the end of the state secretary, Mr Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82393	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am thanking you, on behalf of the promoter, at the end of the day, everyone who participated in this debate. The proposer will consider and the amendments have arrived, and by next Friday, of course, we will be clear about the amendments. Perhaps just a few words without the intention of revising now some of the issues raised here as problematic, I think it is much better that the obligation to set up a Youth Council is because in this way we will also encourage those who, in the opposite sense, are left with the provisions of the first reading and have opportunities to set up a Youth Council would not have established. It is clear that there will be problems in these smaller municipalities, but I think this is a much better solution than to say we have left only the possibility, because I am sure then that a large part of the local self-government unit of 500 and something would never have established the Youth Council. And secondly, I think that things should not only be asked about material or some other sanctions, but that there is also political responsibility in the representative bodies for implementing something or not implementing it, and in that sense no matter what sanctions there are for the implementation of this law, there is indeed a political responsibility of the representative bodies for the implementation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82394	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. It will be decided next week on this point, but on these other points at 3:00, so I ask you to come with the keys and so on, and make us as much as possible because two laws are needed, most of the 77 MPs are trying to ensure that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82395	Final bill of law on Youth Councils. It's a second reading. We have the first amendment of the Government after the deadline, one amendment in accordance with Article 166. We need to vote whether or not we're going to debate and vote on this amendment, so please let's get involved. Vote! The result? With 96 for, 4 abstentions and 2 against the proposed amendment. First, peace please. State Secretary Tomislav Ivic will explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82397	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The government therefore proposes to amend the name of the law, given that the "Young Croatian Youth Network" in collaboration with its local partners is actively working on the establishment of representative bodies of youth in the counties called the Youth Council and so far the Council of Youth has been established in 5 counties, and the establishment of a 6th such council is expected soon. In order to avoid unnecessary misunderstandings in practical work and action due to the same name used in the final draft law on Youth Councils, it is proposed to amend the name of the law. In view of the change in the name of the Youth Council Act, the words of the Youth Council shall be replaced in all articles by the words of the Youth Council in the corresponding decline.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82398	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For SDP's Club of Representatives, respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82399	Well, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. With this amendment, the government actually capitulates the ministry. It shows that all of us who have spoken about this law especially when we have said that this law does not set up youth councils in the way that it is meant in the European Charters, in European documents, the Government is now actually admitting it here. The government does not only admit that in some way we were all critical of this part of the law but also in some way suspends a large part of the reasoning of the law in which it referred to all these European documents and charters that say that we should actually set up a council of young people. On the other hand, in the light of this amendment, you are again showing and giving the right to all of us who have claimed that you have not found a solution to what with an existing situation where not only this association but some others as well as some units of local self-government that the councils of young people have established, that you haven't solved what with it? You've actually created even more chaos because at the same time, we're going to have a council of young people who founded this or that association or that particular unit of local self-government, and then we're going to have parallel and your law established now on new advice from young people, so we're going to have this whole bullet to say between who's really the right and representative body of young people. This amendment somewhere, the name of the law you are proposing to introduce by this amendment, corresponds to the content of the law you are proposing. In this regard, he is good but it is all but the council of young people that we have committed to take with the National Programme for Youth Action, the National Programme for Accession of the European Union and all other international documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82400	I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment to the government. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 76 votes in favour, 18 abstentions and 4 against the proposed amendment. The next amendment to the honourable representative of Biserka Perman. State Secretary. Amendment to the representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82402	The Government or the Proposer accepts the amendment if the Proposer agrees that the text of Article 11, paragraph 3, reads: "The President of the Youth Council is obliged to convene an extraordinary session of the Youth Council on the proposal of at least one third of the members of the Youth Council, since the word "must" is rarely used in legal texts. It has already become a rule in the normative, normative and legal technique that the word "must" is not used in legal regulations. If the amendment is not agreed with the new text of Article 11, paragraph 3 of the amendment shall not be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82403	She's a representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82404	I agree. I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82405	Thank you. In the amended form of amendments accepted. Thank you. We now have an amendment from the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82406	It's unacceptable. Reason: The mandatory establishment of a Youth Council in all units of local or regional self-government should be defined in the direction of creating conditions for achieving the objectives of the proposed law, given that the cultural provision on this issue calls into question the first condition for achieving the objectives of the proposed law, which is the existence of a youth advice through which the objectives set out in the final proposal of the law are achieved. Active involvement of young people in the public life of local and regional units, regional self-government has a broader meaning than the participation of young people in decision-making processes in these units, since decision-making in local and regional units, regional self-government is only one part of the active involvement of young people in the public life of local and regional self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82407	Thank you. Representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82408	In this regard, your proposal that a council must be established in every municipality and city, that is to say, on the new advice of young people and our proposal that this is not necessarily necessary in every city and every municipality. We've discussed this a lot. We unfortunately have a lot of small municipalities that have neither young nor have youth associations nor have schools, and have associations and are founded only for that or on paper nominally have them and we will never start them because for these conditions we don't have, I don't think it just makes any sense. This second part of your argument somewhere corresponds with this and your government amendment or shows that you do not know the whole problem proposed by this law because it is really not about social inclusion but about including in decision-making processes. In the second article, this is very clear to you as to what is the part - circled council or advice of young people. I ask the vote in particular, so let's see if we're in favour of passing laws that can or can't be implemented because this, as you suggested, is simply... [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82409	The vote. Please, let's get on with it. Who's up for that amendment? The result? 29 for. Five abstentions. 61 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 2 to Article 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82410	It's unacceptable. Explanation: In the event of the establishment of youth councils in the districts as a coordination of city and municipal councils of young people, the main objective of the final draft of the law would be lost, and this would be the advisory function of youth advice to representative bodies, in view of the establishment of advice from young County as a coordination of city and municipal councils, but not an advisory body that will benefit from young people's interests at the level of the county. The cooperation of youth councils at all levels of local authorities as one of the forms of coordination is provided for in Article 19. The final draft law and no need to determine additional forms of coordination of youth councils. In view of the existing detour and powers that the city districts have, we believe that the Council of the Young City of Zagreb can fully meet the purpose of the final draft law in whole for the City of Zagreb and there is no need to set up advice for young city districts in the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82411	Representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82412	Mr Secretary of State compared to the first part of the amendment that the county councils of young people, i.e. advice, are set up as the coordination of city and municipal you refuse. You do not respect the Croatian Parliament and the documents adopted unanimously by this Croatian Parliament. In October 2002, the Croatian Parliament unanimously, therefore, adopted by all parties the National Programme for Youth Action, where it is said that the county councils of young people are established as coordination between city and municipal. So then we had all the parties that had discussed it, and we all agreed on it. That's the first one. Second. I do not understand your concept in which, for example, there are 137 inhabitants in the municipality of Civljani and there is not a single youth association, a council of young people must be established, and in the city of Zagreb, which has a million inhabitants and over several thousand youth associations, we will also set up a council of young people, even though we have local self-government in terms of the city quarter. Many programmes, especially those of local concern, too, are being dealt with in urban districts. I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82413	To vote. Let's get involved and vote. The result? 34 for, 4 abstentions, 60 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Article 2
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82414	It's unacceptable. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The springs of political parties, which are usually organisational parts of political parties, and these organisational parts are established by the statutes of political parties, are also natural youth associations, and as such propose candidates for members of youth councils for which there is no need in the law to individually list... organisational forms of youth organisation. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82415	Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82416	Dear Secretary of State has needs. If it were like you're saying the springs of political parties would be together like all the other NGOs... I don't want to be ruled out. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82417	Who ruled out the representative? If that's the one that's established. You know we've had violence against women is punishable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82418	Unfortunately, this is negligent, Mr. President. Mr. President, with all due respect, this has nothing to do with violence with women but decency. But let me get on with it. So, as you say, the springs of political parties could be applied as any other association if there were any competition from the Association Office. However, they cannot do so and they are not registered anywhere as any form of youth action, especially against the authorities of the state, or local self-government units. In this regard, they need to be specifically cited. And somewhere in the conversation with associations and in the very coordination that we, as springs of political parties and NGOs of young people, have talked about the need and common dialogues and on the other hand strengthening the role of the young people themselves, given the rather jagged belief in politics. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82419	To vote. It's violence after all, but it's psychological violence. The result? 32 for, 5 abstentions, 59 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82420	It's unacceptable. Explanation. The proposed text of the amendment has partial characteristics of the business provisions contained in the minimum in the final draft law. The final draft of the law set out in Article 6 of the Decision on the establishment of a Youth Council to regulate, inter alia, the way in which the representative body works in the decision-making process and other acts of direct interest for young people and in relation to young people. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal for a law may be concluded that the proposed text of the new Article 11 is unnecessary, given that the issues set out in the new Article 11 are mandatoryly regulated... Young people's advice. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82421	Representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82422	Your Honor, I agree with you here, given that you have, in good faith, given your amendment to establish the Council of Youth as independent representative bodies of young people. Then there is really no need to insist on what we in the SDP have insisted, and this is also the independence and autonomy of the Youth Council, especially in a way to prevent abuse by local leaders. And I therefore withdraw this amendment, given that this government does not have the slightest desire and will to establish independent bodies or independent youth councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82423	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 5 to Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82424	It's unacceptable. Explanation. We believe that units of local, or regional (regional) self-government can make a financial commitment to finance the Youth Council within the frameworks set by the Final Proposal of the Law and there is no need to determine the possibility of funding from other sources. In addition to this assessment, the fact that the latest amendments to the Regulation on the financing of units of local or regional (regional) self-government allow for an increase in income to the largest number of these units, which we hope will have a positive impact on the financing of the cost of Youth Councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82425	Representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82426	Mr. Secretary of State, I have the impression now, but it's not the first time you've rejected our amendments just because we of the SDP have proposed them. If someone on the other side had suggested them, they would have really agreed. This amendment proposes that only the possibility of an additional source of funding be determined. I don't know who that can hurt. I mean, I don't really have any, I don't know who the harm might be. There's Mr. Palarić and he can tell you nicely... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82427	Amendment withdrawn or what? To vote, to vote, please. The result? 24 for, 9 abstentions, 56 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Youth Councils. What? To vote. The result? With 84 votes for, 15 abstentions and 4 against, the Law on Youth Councils in the text was passed, as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82430	The proposal for a conclusion is not accepted. Explanation. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an operational plan of the national programme, an action for young people for the period 2006 to 23007, the same operational plan set out that the united one-year reports would be submitted to the Council for Young Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So the first one-year report for 2006 will soon be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consciously and responsibly assess whether it will meet the Croatian Parliament in the report. In view of the current situation in the field of action for young people who are quite satisfactory, and as the proposal of this law suggests, we do not feel that there is a need to task the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit an extraordinary report on the implementation of the national programme of action for young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82431	Okay. On behalf of the promoter, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82432	... I thought the government always worked consciously and responsibly, now it turns out it only works sometimes. [[You don't understand.]] I think the government corresponds primarily to the Croatian Parliament. The National Programme was impressed by this Croatian Assembly and I think it is this Croatian Assembly that reports are submitted, not knowingly and responsibly to consider whether or not it will. On the other hand, if this exercise is going as well as you and Mrs. Kosor are talking, if it's all so great that I don't understand why you don't come here to the Parliament to praise it. I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-26-0.u82433	To vote. The result? 33 for, 3 abstentions, 57 against. No conclusion accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It is next - Final proposal of the Law on adult education, second reading of P.Z. No. 504. The Proposer is the Government. The hearing was conducted by the relevant committees. Representative of the Proposer, State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
