ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84106	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a few words, so let's talk about this elementary school law. So this elementary school law intends to bring some changes into it. Changes in this sense also provide funding from the state budget for primary school textbooks. This Law was passed in 10 months 2006. Before the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school, which was submitted by the Croatian Democratic Community, the HNS Club also submitted. So the HNS Club proposal was rejected. The Croatian Democratic Union's proposal has been accepted. We supported it, too. We, I think, and the Club of actually regional parties. We supported that request. Because we think that basic education in Croatia must therefore be free of charge because we know that in our article of the Constitution, the article 65 decidedly states that compulsory education is mandatory and free of charge. We know the prices of textbooks are high. From year to year despite trying to legally regulate it are year to year larger. Prices are just textbooks. The average price of a single student's textbook is about 500 to 600 kuna. In some classes, it goes up to 700 kuna. Along with other school supplies, it goes up to 1000 and 1500 kuna. So that basic cost for our primary school kids. What we would like to warn, therefore, is that there has been a phenomenon that some units of regional or local self-government, some cities, municipalities or counties have therefore drawn funds from their budget to co-finance school textbooks. So I said that the government itself intervened in that direction. That in December 2006, the Law on Supplements to the Law on basic and secondary textbooks was adopted where a new article was added, Article 4a, where it also decidedly states: "The textbooks intended for compulsory education are financed from the state budget." So we are satisfied with this solution. But still, my view is that this problem must be solved, so it is decidedly highlighted in the basic law. And the basic law that speaks of elementary school is the Law on elementary schooling. So we would round up the whole legislative regulation and address this issue most qualitatively. According to the Law on Fundamental Education, the State Budget is currently financing salaries of primary school employees. An employee's transport. Compensation of staff of the primary school established by collective agreement up to a programme of common interest in the activity of primary education. By this law, I propose that a new item be entered here. to provide funding from the State budget for the purchase of basic school textbooks. In its opinion, the government rejected this law by suggesting that how much change will be made to the Law on primary education that it will adapt to the announced changes in this sense that compulsory, secondary education will be introduced. Since the law still does not exist, and given that, in order to change this law, the law on secondary education, the compulsory high school education will require changes and the Constitution, right? So it's a certain procedure. And we know when the Constitution changes that these are sensitive issues. The question of whether the law will be supported. I can say I'll support him. So we think it's good, that today. in due course after the second reading, we adopt this initiative, so that in the Law on Fundamental Education, the basic law sets out the obligation to purchase, the cost of obtaining basic school textbooks from the state budget. There's so much for this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84107	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. For SDP's club, respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84108	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm a little sorry to start by the fact that there are no government representatives here because somewhere at first sight, it may seem to me that this law has been irrevocably discussed since the Government has already introduced a commitment to free textbooks by amending the Law on textbooks. However, my colleague Pavlic has submitted this Law to me for two or three weeks than the government itself has submitted because of the delay in the procedure in the Assembly comes to debate with almost 4 months of delay when it can be partly perceived that it is actually immaterial. However, it is good that we can now discuss this Law because on the other hand there is room for arguments that the right to free textbooks also has a place in the basic law that treats basic or compulsory education. So somewhere, then, it can be clearly determined that it is indeed the right of every student rather than to define itself as is now in the Law on textbooks, which is actually a special law that regulates only one part of basic education. Why am I sorry there isn't a Prime Minister here? Because this is a good opportunity to discuss once again what is happening with textbooks because it is now in progress that the review procedure for textbooks for the next school year for the next year and by January 31st, these last textbooks for the 5th grade should be dedicated. Everything, the whole procedure and what we were saying at the 11th and 12th months when we introduced free textbooks into the Law in basic and high school textbooks shows that all of our fears that we were doing back then were absolutely right. Namely, to remind the content of the textbooks defined by the curricula and the programme which was established and published in "The People's Newspaper" in mid-September. The publishers, or authors, were to submit the text of the textbooks with that content by 31.11. and 31 January respectively, depending on the time limit. Second, in just two months, they were supposed to write all the textbooks. Another important moment that defines the way in which a textbook called the textbook standard was drawn in mid-January, so when it was already more than half of the textbooks and was dedicated so it was completely unclear how the textbooks whose manuscripts had already been handed over could have been in line with the document that was brought only after the manuscripts had been handed over to the ministry. It just shows that, with all the involvement in the textbooks, this ministry has neither had any visions of what it wants to do. And actually promising easier school bags and I don't know what kind of textbooks they actually got carried away and promised something that I couldn't accomplish, and that's now more than evident. To repeat once again the SDP position so that we in the SDP are not against free textbooks or have ever been against them. It is the projects of some units of local self-government primarily Zagreb and others where the government renews, the behaviour of the SDP shows where we have just introduced free textbooks that we are very much for free textbooks. However, in the state budget situation, when we have enough school calls to spend about 350 million to 400 million kunas still question whether they will be enough to get all the textbooks, we do not think that they are completely familiar with priorities. On the other hand, we still have no pedagogical standard in Croatia, so a key document that must guarantee equal standards of teaching throughout Croatia, regardless of where the school is located. So it seems to us that there's still a certain order and a schedule for everything together to happen. What I would like, and we in the SDP, to hear from the government is how you intend to get those free textbooks. It is now February 16th, the textbooks are to be obtained or are due to start to purchase at the end of June, at the latest in order to be in schools during that month, or in the summer until the new school year. I asked that question through the media somewhere. The ministry said they weren't planning public procurement. For a job worth more than 350 million kuna, the government is not planning a public settlement but is thinking of going to direct contracts. On the one hand, this job is predetermined by law. Namely, schools and teachers choose their own textbooks to use. Hence, it is well - known what will be and how many of the publishers will be bought from. However, on the other hand, the work of distribution from publishers, from printers to school, is an extremely large job and we think that public procurement should take place. In the Ministry of Public Affairs, they're not thinking. In fact, they're saying they'll settle it with a direct contract. If they think everything is solved by a direct contract as they say, then I'm interested in who they are and why they are in any of that distribution business, which I repeat is worth several hundred million kunas, wants to please and then somewhere those government declarations that they are both against corruption and eliminate any doubts in conflict of interest are becoming, they come under that light of justifiable doubt that I'm saying that it's still not clean here. Because I repeat a business worth several hundred thousand kunas is thought to be settled by direct contract. Somewhere at the end of this debate, I would like to refer to a part of the government's opinion that the government is thinking systematically to regulate systemic compulsory, primary and secondary education, i.e. compulsory. We've been hearing about government opinions for three years when they refuse any opposition proposals, and we'll deal with it systematically, we'll deal with it systematically. However, we have never received any systematic solution so far. Of course, there are current stories there again, as the government is also calling for this in its opinion on the introduction of compulsory secondary education. I'd only like to discuss it in Parliament. Because my colleague Pavlic said, but I think it's best to change the Constitution. I don't think anyone smart here in the Croatian Parliament or in society is thinking of standing up to the length of compulsory education. And in that sense, the Constitution is really the easiest thing to change. What's much more problematic is how to build school buildings. We just have to have 15 to 20% more school space. In what way do you hire new teachers who, because of poor incomes, are running away from education because of their poor status in society at all? And what is much more important is how we make it possible for every child we try to force into school to be successful at that school? We're today from students who don't even enter high school between 8 and 9% of them. Of those who enroll high school about 10% of high school never finishes. And the ones somewhere on average 15% of them are later typed. About 15% of young people who never finish high school should be forced into school buildings, and therefore with those 15% conditional on the worst and we need to make programs in which they could be successful. From the new programmes from the building plan, the employment plan has nothing to do with it, but we have announcements that we will be the best, that we will bring it all together into Croatia. I think it is inconclusive because it will produce total contrasts and I think it is time to discuss very excessive and very systematic and thorough and professional and scientific research in which way we are just introducing an optional secondary school but in what way to extend compulsory education in Croatia. Because now to extend to 3 or 4 years or to one or two, as they now propose to the ministry without introducing new programs, without the introduction of a modular and flexible secondary school is extremely unserious. I think everyone who deals with education thinks the exact same thing. So let me lock up somewhere. I wish there was a representative here to tell us whether he really thinks about getting free textbooks for the next school year to work with a direct contract, as they have spoken through the media, or whether they think according to what they declare that a competition should be called for, or to conduct a public procurement. Because if the government doesn't, then once again, it will show that corruption is also the style of ruling this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84109	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84110	Dear Mr. President, my colleague said first that the SDP supports free textbooks, but then she said that the unnecessary priority is EUR 350 million for free purchase of textbooks. It's just not true. It's a necessary need. Because all other regions in Croatia are far more underdeveloped than Zagreb and Zagreb can finance it itself. But that's why many other schools many other municipalities and local administrations and self-government can't. And because of the unique creation of higher standards, the government has made such a decision, which is a priority, and it needs a priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84111	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84112	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm also correcting the incorrect quote of a colleague who says it's good to discuss this bill. It's not good because the question of getting textbooks is already solved by the Bookbooks Act. So we can't have in a hundred laws the same question solved, and this is groundless, and I suggest to the proposer that we withdraw this bill so that we don't lose it here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84113	Dear representative Ruža Lelic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84114	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said the government always said it would be systematically resolved, and says no systematic solution has been reached. So I would remind you that this ministry and this government are actually working systematically. First they settled the debts inherited from a billion and 200 million kuna, then there is our Croatian national educational standard, the introduction of state graduation, the Law on Sports, the development of vocational education, the implementation of the Bologna process, the establishment of new universities, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84115	Thank you. The club of the representatives of the HSS, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84116	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, since there are all kinds of comments from the bench, I'm going to say it's not questionable to discuss this bill at all. It's a fundamental law, a law on elementary schooling, and we certainly believe in the HSS that it should be the same item on free textbooks. And we here, unfortunately someone might think differently, debauchery, here we are discussing one of the most important areas for the Republic of Croatia, so we are talking about education. Just as I was speaking on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club when the additions to the Law on elementary and secondary textbooks were discussed, and now I'm going to do some things again, because I think it has a basis for that. Let's remember, here's this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on elementary and high school textbooks, a very short, a lot of things being solved, we commended that it was good that the Government decided to do so and today we also give some thanks to the Government for having the courage and courage to propose free textbooks for compulsory schooling. However, I would mention that when we discussed textbooks, if we had some reservations and remarks, and above all this concerns the ministry which will use and keep free textbooks to bring about, of course, later and today, we have already heard from my predecessor, my colleague Lugarić, that it is very useful to talk about textbooks, or how they will be printed, who will be publishers. We know that the criteria that have been published, unfortunately suit the large, the small will disappear regardless of the quality textbooks it has. I personally had a chance to talk and be sure I wasn't speaking in my mind. For example, it is a textbook for information where a team of experts is very good at quality textbooks, I dare say among the best quality in Croatia, but according to the criteria relating to the number of employees, to the surface of the warehouse, it cannot compete as a publisher for these textbooks. And it's even worse to know there won't be any public procurement. Well, if that's already settled, why don't we talk about it here in this House. That's not good practice. Well, they spoke a few days ago about the Commission's report on public procurement control, and then we mentioned that this is exactly the kind of direct bargaining process that suits corruption. I'm not saying whether or not there are elements here, but as soon as it comes to direct procurement, there is a certain doubt. So I would like to really be able to discuss it once, whether and in what way the process of obtaining textbooks would be carried out and if it really was meant for me to be privileged and large. So this isn't a small thing when we talk about textbooks. ... They're here somewhere from 250 to 300 million kuna, they're huge assets and it goes directly through a contract. [[You don't understand.]] So when it comes to free textbooks, it certainly needs to be taken very seriously that anyone I say either from publishers or from other institutions does not refer to certain objections because it would throw a certain spot there or a shadow on this good project. The second thing that seems important to me, which is Article 3 of the Law on Supplements to the Law on elementary and secondary textbooks, where it is prescribed among other exceptions to those deadlines that were defined in Article 6 of the basic law, then we have already set a certain reserve on whether these deadlines will be met. Today, we do not know whether these deadlines were well measured or not. According to some information, they were unfortunately too short, and no one is talking about it. When we warned that because of some ease and better preparation, we set longer deadlines, no one wanted to listen, as if we were against it, so we weren't against free textbooks, but we wanted to fix that law. He would also say another very important thing. There may also be replicas, it may also be a correction of an incorrect allegation, all of it, but the basic thing to do is to end the reform of basic, ultimately and secondary education. Then, of course, we would have all the preconditions and we would have very easily timed total spaces, and I will say very openly today, in some areas a project of public private partnership is going on. These are huge funds where private partners are, but also public money from the county, municipalities or cities that are included in this all together, and ultimately of course also from the state budget. We're going to these big projects without knowing what rules. It's about a one-way course, it's going to be built at this point, or it's going to build schools, or it's going to build halls for eight years of elementary schooling. And what if in two years or in a year when the new government comes it decides for 10 years primary education, for example? Where will and who will be responsible for those funds that have been in vain... I think? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're gonna have to renovate the premises or I don't know how they're gonna get rid of it. On the one hand, the irresponsibility of those who enter these projects headlessly, the public private partnership thus irresponsiblely towards the citizens, and, on the other hand, irresponsiblely from the Government for failing to conclude in time the reform project or halting such projects of a public private partnership, which could ultimately have damages. I'm just saying that the reform that was supposed to be the key to all that was late together. And the whole mandate will go clearly without a decision on reform or on key elements of the reform being made. Here, I certainly don't think it's questionable that this law be passed. Even in the end, it's just a suggestion, so why not go to another reading? We can also direct criticism as to why it took so long? It was practically at the same time that he was referred to in a debate when the Law on Supplements to the Law on textbooks was passed, why not. Neither of them are at odds. In fact, they support each other. And that is why the HSS proposes that we support this proposal for a law on the completion of the Charter of Fundamental Education and to refer it to a second reading if we adopt the final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84117	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged, respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84118	Comrade Sabati, just a little correction. You said the government was guilty because she didn't conclude the reform project. The government didn't even bring reform. She's not written anywhere. There are only impromptu procedures and announcements that the minister and one of his advisors saw, so they find it convenient to do so. For example, what you've been saying about building schools, according to existing rules, because they haven't changed the regulations, the ministry doesn't give consent to any architectural project to build a one-way school because according to the rules in force, one-way schools can't be built. So much for reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84119	Final Review, Proposer Honored Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84120	Well, here's the ladies and gentlemen, just a few words. I thank everyone, therefore, who joined this debate, who supported it. The same ones that have here, and the remarks. Even if it is a brief debate, it has shown that it is also in this House, and even in our parliamentary committee, there should be a debate on the future of our schooling and a little more content, so that we can get some answers that we ask ourselves questions about. But as far as the law itself is concerned, here some here said the law should be withdrawn. No, I don't. I don't think we should pull, exactly the opposite. The basic school law is a fundamental law, therefore, a fundamental law that regulates the basic education system. The primary schooling is currently, therefore, a schooling that has been decided in our Constitution as mandatory and free of charge. And right behind the Constitution, the basic law is the law on elementary schooling. Not the Bookbook Act. So the government itself in principle supports this law but it speaks of the need for a single resolution of the primary school and high school system. It is that when it is mandatory and secondary school education to get rid of it in a unique way. But it will not be uniquely resolved because there is now a Law on primary education and a Law on secondary education. That's probably how it's gonna be later. So today we're talking about a real, current situation. And this situation is, therefore, that the Law on elementary education does not have a registered real situation for textbooks to be financed from the state budget. So we have the Law on textbooks, and we don't have the Law on elementary schooling. I think it would be good to round up the story, round up the whole concept, and simply add in the basic law those words to the state budget to provide funds for the purchase of basic school textbooks. Here, I invite you to support this law in the first and second readings as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84121	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law supplementing the basic school law. Proposer of the law is agent Željko Pavlic. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the working bodies, the following conclusion. The proposal for a law supplementing the Charter of Fundamental Education proposed by MP Željko Pavlic is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. We can vote! The result? With 65 for, 8 abstentions, 31 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84124	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! These two short laws were in the process about a year ago. Both were, of course, rejected by the government with a reason that during the alignment of Croatian legislation with European regulations and this matter will be regulated in the Law on Croatian Citizenship and the Law on Foreigners, which the Government is preparing. And now they'll be in the process. Now that's going to come into procedure was an explanation a year ago. That same argument was repeated when I repeated the procedure. So when I put the law back in the process. With the government saying that the task force is about to prepare the Foreign Law and that in the first quarter of 2007, the law will come under discussion. Yesterday we had a agenda point to bring Croatian legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. It says in the third quarter he'll come to the hearing. So the government changed its mind, say, from a month ago when, or two months ago, she gave an opinion on these proposals, until yesterday, she changed her mind. And she transferred that law to the third quarter. Most likely, in the term of office of this government, it will not be in the process at all. And nobody really cares about that. And the Croatian language of these two laws is cyclically from there, Declaration '68. So until last week every so many, every year, for example, a year and a half, it becomes a top topic in public. And she's all disgusted, everyone's thinking if I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, And actually, the way things are, we should be wondering soon whether we're going to talk and write both shell or I will? Because the Croatian language ceases to be a means of communication in business, in business in Croatia. The Croatian language ceases to be a means of communication even in the media, not to mention marketing, advertising and the like. In the first proposal that speaks, these two laws on Croatian citizenship, I suggest that foreigners who demand Croatian citizenship take a formalized Croatian language exam in one of the institutions. Let's say the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb or Zadar or anyone authorized by the Central Office of the State to carry out the procedure. How are things today? When a stranger makes an entry request, his knowledge of Croatian language and understanding of Croatian culture, knowledge of Latin letters and understanding of Croatian culture and customs are checked for Croatian citizenship. Who's checking it out? A police officer who's gonna write him an opinion tomorrow whether a man can get citizenship or not? So the police officer conducts the Croatian language exam. I'm a professor of English and Croatian, and I don't think I'm going to arrest people. It's not my job for God, I don't know how to do it. I don't know why, when or how? I am neither physically nor mentally qualified to do so as a police officer is not qualified to check whether anyone knows Croatian. I'm sure he's not trained. Okay, today's a different time. Tolerant, more liberal, watch out for human rights, so the excesses that happened ten years ago don't happen anymore. But we needed it, and we needed it to be a lesson so we wouldn't afford to keep the police out of culture. Culturants do police work. The law on foreigners treats this very situation that the Croatian language ceases to be a means of communication in business in Croatian companies. Companies registered in the Republic of Croatia. Especially those owned by foreign corporations, foreign banks and so forth. And most of the larger and more successful Croatian firms are just like that. In Hotel Westin, for example, here in Savska across the road, only maids and waiters speak Croatian. No one else. No one in management speaks Croatian. Croatian is not the official language that communicates in the company. In the Karlovac brewery, too. I guess in the crowd of other firms I don't know. These two, I happen to know. In this short proposal of the law, people who seek a business permit or a work permit in the Republic of Croatia are obliged to stay and do business in Croatia for more than a year to pass a similar exam as foreigners seeking citizenship. Why a year? So because teachers come to keep one semester or a school year class doesn't make any sense. People come here to help or perfect or help our people to perfect themselves. And there's no point within those years harassing them to lay their tongues. Football players are coming to play one season. Businessmen come to take care of their own company they bought as well as they buy it, so come on, they'll be here for a year until it's being stalked and then they'll be gone. However, whoever comes to serve bread here, if a French representative comes to play in Dinamo for 10 years, he must know Croatian. If the manager moves to Zagreb and wants to start his life here and work, serve bread, prosper with his company he must know Croatian language. If the university professor comes from Ljubljana to Zagreb, he will move here and lecture here at the University is not enough to just get a work permit, he also needs to know the Croatian language in order to communicate. Croatian is a small language. In multicultural Europe, a Europe of dozens or hundreds of languages as many as there are must be cared for by everyone for their culture and their language. Language isn't just a means of communication. Language is also a way of thinking. Man cannot think beyond the context of the language of his native tongue with which he was born and who learned as the first language. If we exclude this means of communication from everyday operation, if it becomes the secondary language of the other language that we serve only at home, we will stop and think in the way we think. If the rational reasons for the success of the state administration, communication in the state are not enough, accept these, accept these emotional cuts to preserve Croatian identity, preserve what has actually preserved us throughout all these centuries of various integrations from the Austro-Hungarian monarchy and the Bulgarian Kingdom until this Yugoslavia. It kept us from speaking our own language and thinking with our own heads. If we give up a little of that, we'll be left with it. So I appeal that these laws be accepted. They do not make any expense special because Croatian exams that would be laid somewhere would be paid by those who lay. So no cost, no problem and the position and the dignity of the Croatian language in which we all swear and Croatian membership to the Croatian nation, political and ethnic in this way would be strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84125	Thank you. First of all, are the committees going to discuss it? None of the board wants to discuss it? ... And then the IDS Club, the esteemed representative, Damir Cain. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84126	Okay, this is about two laws. The Law on Croatian Citizenship and this other. Understandably, in the case of a Croatian language check for admission to Croatian citizenship, the application or check-in should not be carried out by a police officer. That's understandable. This is unnecessary, however, but the Croatian public must also know that Croatian citizenship was admitted after '91. a million and 100,000 foreign citizens. From Bosnia and Herzegovina 722 thousand 644, Macedonia 13 thousand, Slovenia 17 thousand 599. Serbia plus Montenegro 90 thousand 156, from Italy 3 thousand 140, France's thousand 752, Chile thousands of 23, Austria's thousand 497, probably the most that they could achieve or submit a claim for the return of property, from Argentina a thousand 770, from Germany 9,000 357, from Romania's 785, Peru a thousand 21, Chinese 40. These are the data at the end of 2005. Something probably changed in 2006 but let's just say I don't know. What is the primary problem in each election is cca 200, 220, 250 thousand third-country nationals who can largely or determine the electoral will, and that here in Croatia neither serve the army, although I agree with the abolition of that manual service because it simply makes no sense anymore, neither pay taxes nor work here nor part of fate with other Croatian citizens. The truth is without their foreign exchange... One good part would be hard to get along with the external balance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every year we receive between 13 and 15 thousand citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina. The fundamental question of this law is, as well as any law on dual citizenship, why people even take dual citizenship. Why do foreigners want their citizenship and Croatian citizenship or vice versa? I said the Austrians probably want it for the return of property. Did anyone question them in their own time about history, language, etc.? I doubt it. Three thousand 140 Italians were also admitted to Croatian citizenship. Who are these people? These are Italians of Croatian origin from Mulis. Did anyone ask them anything? Probably not. It was done by an embassy in Rome headed by Professor Rudolph. Is that why someone was causing problems? It's not. We have also received 40 Chinese people into Croatian citizenship, and we God and dozens of world criminals. By 2005 8 thousand 47 citizens of the Republic of Croatia had received Italian citizenship after that famous 2005 or early law, yes. More than 700 citizens have been obtained, and the requirement for citizenship has been submitted in numbers of about 5,000 and 500. Once again, in Croatian citizenship, we also have 722 thousand 644 citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will not talk about these political implications and comparisons with this Italian law, the controversy over divided citizenship. But Croatian citizenship is based on the Law on Croatian Citizenship, "National Journal" 53/91. means origin, birth on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, birth by international contracts. Article 4 speaks of the origins of the Croatian citizenship of a child whose parents were Croatian citizens at the time of birth, whose parents were born at the time of birth of a Croatian citizen, and the child was born in the Republic of Croatia. Item 3 of Article 4 of which is one of the parents at the time of birth of a Croatian citizen, the other without citizenship or unknown citizenship, and the child was born abroad. And it is clearly of origin that Croatian citizenship and a foreign citizen's child or without citizenship are acquired if, according to the provisions of a special law, Croatian citizens have adopted with related effect, etc., which is logical. In Croatia, gentlemen, we also have 7 to 8 thousand people who have not received the so-called business permits or work permits. It is true that part of the leading management that my predecessor Mr. Nikola Vuljanić spoke about earlier, means part of this leading management in our banks, in INA, in HT simply does not know Croatian. It's not news. Perhaps the most recent example was that HT director who welcomed the people of Ban Jelačić Square a year ago during that swim in Sljemen welcomed normally in English, and then read something that was supposed to look like Croatian. On the other hand, this same company pulls about 2 billion kuna of profits out of this country every year. In principle, we have nothing against this law. However, now whether some of the minorities in Croatia should seek knowledge of the language in the environments in which there is an official use and language, for example. Someone's opening a factory, etc. Is that why you can block someone from such a minimal investment in these areas? I don't know, say that in 2005, about $10 billion of foreign capital entered in the Czech Republic, so there's no need to wonder what their exports are about $60 billion six times bigger than Croatia. And until '90. What do we do? We've been looking up at the Czechs with the tall ones. It would also be a comparison for what it's like. solved in some other neighbouring countries in Hungary, is that where all those who come there are learning Hungarian. As solved in one China that notes bene has the world's highest growth rates. There's no serious company in Shanghai that's not represented there. Do people learn Chinese there, too?? Clearly, there is no parallel between one great nation or large nations such as China and some other and Croatia. Clearly, so they wouldn't do something to make them regret it. For example. On page 1, it is said, among other things, that he knows the meaning of the Croatian language, the Latin letter, that his conduct can understandably conclude that he respects the legal order, the custom in the Republic of Croatia to accept the culture of these spaces. None of us are against it. Just the same so you wouldn't make a mistake. I agree that the frustrating situation is that in leading banks, but this is our fault, because we have sold the rescheduled banking institutions, there is almost no one at the head of these Croatian-language administrations, and where German, English, Italian-based, is exclusively spoken on supervisory boards, depending on which countries the owners of these banks come from. But there will be no problem if we pass this law. It's interesting when it comes to this law to mention something else, and that's how much so-called. business permits issued so far in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia has issued them all the time by the end of 2005, it's probably a little bit more now, it's issued 7 thousand 321 such permission, so to the people who run and who have registered companies in these areas. They formed most of them on the basis of these permits by Italians such companies a thousand and 900, probably to come between them and real estate on the coast, but let's not ignore the fact that the trade between one country and another is about 5.5 billion dollars, which will say almost 20% of the trade between the Republic of Croatia. Second, the Austrians are one thousand and 105, then the Germans are one thousand 87, the Chinese by the end of 2005. 545, if we continue to do so, not only will the deficit between China and Croatia be like now over a billion dollars in favour of the Chinese but we will almost lose a small trade. Hungarians 350, Czechs 268, British 189 exclusively for the purchase of real estate and de facto form these companies so that they can speculate with real estate on these premises. The Americans here have 132 business permits, Slovenians 114 etc. Otherwise, it is understandable that these business licenses lead in some way to invest or enter certain investments from 93 to today about $14 billion has been invested here, but most clearly at the time that banks were taken over, whether it is Rijeka, Split, Slavenska and so on. etc. Mr. Nikola Vuljanić of the HNS and the first requirements for these laws filed somewhere there in 2005 seems to me at the end. This one law almost so that I could call it the Chinese law, but as I said, the intensity is on the managers of the big company that runs the most vital Croatian companies or companies, which we saw as extracting those numbers for the slalom, they are not able to properly read the written text from that little paper when they welcomed people gathered in Ban Jelačić Square. But to go back to this law. Another problem is that everyone from Bosnia and Herzegovina acquires citizenship and indirectly participates in the political life of the Republic of Croatia. Twelve to 15 thousand Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina acquire Croatian citizenship every year. What does that mean? That these people in the election often and decisively decide which option they will overcome. However, there is another problem, and this is the absorption I would call the power of Zagreb, which will soon lead to the fact that out of 250 thousand Croats in those areas, perhaps in 10 years there will be no more than 150 thousand people, and then we will all imagine each other very much. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia knows the Institute that the citizen of Croatia cannot be clearly taken away citizenship. What we all know about citizenship, the right to vote goes clearly and if we want to limit the right to vote to those who do not have a place of residence in these areas, then perhaps we should intervene in the Constitution itself when the change of the same Constitution is announced, and in parallel with that, return both Bosniaks and Slovenians to the preamble of this document and regulate what with the right to vote by citizens who do not have a place of residence in these areas. And I'll do it again. From 93th to today, a million and 100 thousand foreign nationals from Bosnia and Herzegovina, 722 thousand from Macedonia, 13,000 from Slovenia, 17 thousand 500 from Slovenia, Serbia plus Montenegro 90 thousand from Italy 3 thousand 140, France 1752, Chile over a thousand, Austrians over a thousand, 497, Argentineans 1770, Germans 9357, Romania 1785, Peruvians 120 and so many, one, and the Chinese in all 40. The IDS clearly welcomes the conditions of this law, but as the opportunities stand mainly in the largest Croatian companies, I think it will be difficult to implement them in the future, unfortunately, but that is the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84127	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Pero Kovcevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84128	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Cain has normally made several incorrect allegations, I will focus on two of the most important. It says over a million foreigners have been admitted into Croatian citizenship. That's inaccuracy. It is about Croats who were forced to leave Croatia during the Yugoslav boots. That is why they were forced to leave Croatia and these are for you foreigners, for us they are not foreigners, they are Croats who have the right to Croatian citizenship. Another incorrect allegation is that they did not serve the Croatian army. However, all of them served the Croatian Army and came to defend Croatia from those you represent here today. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84129	I heard that, though, now my colleague Cain will apologize. That it's in effect. Well, it'll be nice for you to say...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84130	We'll deal with it later in four eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84131	It would be correct to apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84132	Just keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84133	He won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84134	Just keep going. And warn him... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84135	Well, that's a nice reminder for insulting behavior. Comrade Cain, then I give you a warning because it is not, it must not be tolerated. That you apologized, another thing. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84136	Thank you, Mr. President. Although Kovačević corrected the same incorrect allegations, I will once again correct the incorrect assumption that more than a million foreigners, Peruvians, Argentins, and so on have been admitted into Croatian citizenship. So these are all Croats who, unfortunately, were exiled, exiled from Croatia and who finally got the satisfaction of getting Croatian citizenship because they were Croats who were persecuted. So, fellow Cain, it's not about any strangers. It is said to Croatian citizens who have not unjustly been denied that citizenship for all these decades.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84137	And a respected deputy vice president, Dom Mato Arlovic, a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84138	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Cain has chosen to say in his debate that this law of maltene is like the law of the Chinese. I strongly oppose such an approach to any nation or people, when it comes to the Law on Citizenship or the Law on Foreigners for a simple reason, because no one is to be underestimated or belittled in the Croatian Parliament and, above all, not the largest nation in the world. It's number one, per population. Please, colleague Cain. That's what you said. That's number one. Number two. If you have proof that anyone has been admitted into Croatian citizenship or has received a work or business permit past the law, regardless of whether he was Chinese, he was an American, French or anything else, submit the appropriate, initiate the appropriate procedure on these issues. But it doesn't give you the right to injure anyone without evidence, in fact, in some way, if you want and insult them. And by the way, when I take my word for it, I'm taking this opportunity to congratulate all the Chinese on the New Year of the Golden Pig, which performs on Sunday.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84139	Chinese New Year?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84141	Okay. The club of the representatives of the HSS, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84142	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, we've come together today to discuss two draft laws. One is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Croatian Citizenship and the second is the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Foreigners. It's about similar matter, and then it's nothing unusual that a debate is united. But I'll still take at least a few minutes for every bill of law a few sentences. First, it is certainly a bit unusual to wait for more than a year for a regular procedure with discussion, so to discuss in this Croatian Assembly. And the other would refer a little bit to the government's opinion and on one and also to the other bill. Namely, this opinion was given on 11 January 2007, both for one and the other draft law. With the proposal for a law supplementing the Foreign Law being sent to the parliamentary procedure on 30 November 2005. So a year and a few months ago. And Croatian citizenship was repeated at the end of last year. The government's view of this proposal for a law on Croatian citizenship is thus, little or no support or support. It supports the initiative. But it is also mentioned in one opinion and in another that the Ministry of Interior established an inter-minor working group to draft a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian Citizenship. And of course this task force, it has no doubt seen the lack of legal provisions. And that it would be in the parliamentary procedure. However, they are also writing here in the last sentence for their representatives who will participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies, the government has appointed Ivica Kirin, Interior Minister Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior and Zarko Katic, Assistant Minister of the Interior. I don't see anyone here. A little bit, I think we should at least hear how far it's come with this proposal specifically, this part of Croatia's citizenship. Now a little bit about the bill itself. Of course, when we talk about it, it should be reminded of the existing, applicable provisions of course relating to admission to Croatian citizenship in paragraphs 4 and 5 of that article. It is stated that he knows the Croatian language and the Latin letter and that his conduct can conclude that he respects the legal order and customs of the Republic of Croatia and accepts Croatian culture. Of course, we believe that this proposal that my colleague Vuljanic made really has grounds and should be taken into account. It is about the fact that this bill suggests that in some way determining these above similarities, if we can say so, is given to the verified institutions. I don't see, what's wrong with that? Yes, of course. It's very useful and it should be supported. I also think, in a way, especially because similar provisions have been given in other European countries and there are a large majority of them in the European Union. So, we as a Croatian Peasant Party club will certainly give support to this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Croatian Citizenship, because we believe that it solves an unresolved or at least I say an insufficiently well-resolved question of receiving into Croatian citizenship. We will not deal with any problems here, how much has been received, what year in Croatian citizenship? We think that this topic is already being absorbed and that we shouldn't discuss it. However, I would still like to devote a little more time to this second proposal for a law supplementing the Foreign Law which, of course, also has the opinion of the Government which seems a little bit, a little unacceptable. In fact, the government here does not support this bill because it says that the 2006 National Programme of Association of the Republic of Croatia is scheduled to refer the draft draft legislation to the legislative procedure in the fourth quarter of 2006. I can also accept the fact that the following opinion mentions that in the first quarter of this year they will be sent to the Croatian Assembly in the procedure of adoption, so little here was in contradiction. Of course, it would be good to have a representative of the ministry here today, he also writes in his opinion that representatives of the Croatian Parliament will be present either as Minister, State Secretary or Assistant, Minister of the Interior, but they are not there. So we don't know how far it's come with these exact changes that were involved. However, I would really support the initiative here regarding this law on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club for a number of reasons. We can talk about entering European culture, knowledge as an appropriate segment of development is important. Knowledge of foreign languages. It's all very nice. But all of us, on various issues, were we in other countries, in some other way, in business. Like in 1994, I was in France, in Degeon, and believe me, I tried to find out in some way how to reach a certain destination by asking in English, asking in German. They were just looking at me. Now I'm interested in a little bit there among people what's going on? It is not the devil that a developed European country does not know any foreign language. Yes, they do, but they don't want to speak anything but French in principle. You who come learn French. That's exactly what they told me. We're a small country exactly. And as much as we keep to ourselves, so will others respect us. After all, I am proud to be a Croatian, and I would like others who come to Croatia to learn at least business Croatian. I don't see why this wouldn't be accepted, this good initiative. Of course, we can say that it might also be in some kind of proposal that the government will also refer to in the procedure. But at this point, I don't know what the government thinks about it. I only have this bill from my colleague Nikola Vuljanic. We as the Croatian Peasant Party Club consider it a good initiative. That he should be supported. We can say there are certain details about which a little broader discussion should take place, and perhaps from that debate and even some changes would occur. But that's the first reading. Perhaps in the second reading, we could supplement the proposal a little and come up with a better solution. We can say that in some ways today in the world it is believed that language as some kind of identity is not a static category, but I repeat why I do not accept these good intensities especially because we are all witnessing more and more foreigners coming to the Republic of Croatia. We're not talking about big business entities. I'm just talking about a series of stores. This is where the Chinese were mentioned. Let them come, let them sell, I mean that, that's the thing we can discuss elsewhere. However, I would like all those who come to learn at least a business Croatian language, so that we can communicate with them if we need to. Not that we need to think about what language we will speak in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84143	Thank you. For the club HSP, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84144	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the Croatian Party of Rights Club cannot support these two bill proposals as legal texts because they are not written as such. We can support as an initiative to discuss both the issue of Croatian citizenship and the issue of foreigners because this, these two proposals are inappropriate. The question is whether or not they're written in writing, but we're not going to talk about it right now. We'll talk about it on another occasion. We think it is important for us in the Croatian Party Club of Rights when it comes to the Law on Croatian Citizenship to ask the Government to finally pass a new, whole law on Croatian citizenship. Since they are already here in the assembly of open debates and these proposals are mainly proposed by the Croatian Citizenship Act, we need to speak from the point of view of Croats whose children have problems gaining Croatian citizenship and we know that their grandfathers or their parents have been forced to leave Croatia. So they were forced to leave Croatia because they could not live under the boot of the repressive system that drove them away and had to leave Croatia. They love Croatia, they have defended Croatia. They helped Croatia, but unfortunately they have more and more problems related to their children gaining and gaining Croatian citizenship, and it has always been their dream that they are Croatian citizens. And we can't talk about them here as strangers. It is not the same case that Croats from Australia, the child of Croats from Australia who want to gain, get Croatian citizenship or the case of a stranger who comes to Croatia whether it is a Chinese, Italian or another. There we must always have this variant that our laws must go in that part for the benefit of Croats. This is what every country has in the world as well as how citizenship can be made simpler than both conventions and all that. But we must also be aware of the dangers and related to these conventions that we delayed the debate in the Croatian Parliament last year that, in order for the situation to happen, the children of Croats, Croatian citizens living outside cannot come will gain Croatian citizenship because of the fact that they will not have 5 years of stay in Croatia or other or similar situations. So that's one part of the problem this law doesn't give an answer to, and if he's talking about these kids, the Croats that they're foreigners, then we're opposed to that kind of solution if that's the intention. They're not strangers, nor can they be strangers. Another important question is whether we are going to enable those who participated in the creation of the Croatian state to be able to acquire Croatian citizenship, which is a situation that is known everywhere in the world as to how French citizenship can be acquired. He goes to the Legion and gets French citizenship, right? This also applies to recruitment related to the United States Army. One of the variants when you get the part that you can stay in the United States is entering armed forces and as such you get citizenship. We have Bosniaks who participated in the defence of Croatia. They were members of the Croatian Council of Defense. They have high national values and unfortunately have not yet exercised their rights, and Croatia is obliged to them to acquire Croatian citizenship and to do so and they want to do so. Is that what we're gonna talk about? If we see whether this is settled in accordance with Article 12, paragraph 2. Why is the Department of Defense, why isn't the Ministry of the Interior doing this thing? So let's talk about these positions because they, we also have a situation that those who attacked Croatia, they come easily to Croatian citizenship. And those who created Croatia, who defended Croatia like these Bosniaks, they cannot get Croatian citizenship. Let's talk about it. These are the things that we need to talk about and ask for, so we ask the government to finally resolve these issues, to finally resolve those issues, that those who created Croatia, who defended Croatia from obtaining Croatian citizenship, not for various bureaucratic or other reasons, have prevented them from acquiring. Yes, the second, third generation of Croats, Croatian citizens, that they have no problem gaining Croatian citizenship because they are always and have Croatia in their heart, they participated in the defence of Croatia. A lot came from the diaspora, you should know which, from the diaspora of our Croats who put themselves on the defender of the homeland and who participated in the defense of Croatia. And after that they didn't ask for anything, they went back. So let's talk responsibly. So if you need to take a history exam, they passed it a long time ago. And many who have Croatian citizenship and who participated in the attack on Croatia would certainly not pass the history exam. In fact, they wanted to make history their own way. So let us talk responsibly about these topics, not about situations that are false. So the question is whether we're going to act undemocraticly, whether we're going to act totalitarian, and say that children are Croats that they're foreigners. No, we won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84145	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84146	Thank you, Mr. President. It's an honor to the great majority of citizens who have dual citizenship. But it certainly needs to be kept in mind that those who play the Institute of Double Citizenship. And we had the opportunity to see those who were sentenced in their countries of origin walk freely in Croatia because they have Croatian citizenship, and then cannot be extradited to those other countries. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84147	But maybe that's the problem, but it's not a correction to an incorrect assumption. Now that we've been to Turkey, we've also met with very interesting language problems. For example, we ask what it's called, what it means to be a basketball alley. It says "ballroom." Or, say, "ballerina," "hanum sound." Hanum sound, yes. And the promoter goes, the esteemed representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84148	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to analyze the discussion a little bit if these two laws, which speak the title of course on Croatian citizenship and foreigners, were essentially speaking about the position and the right of Croatian language. That is what the declaration was called, yes, about the position and the true Croatian language. So it talks about not taking advantage of this discussion to throw parols and Croats of this category, Croats first, second, third, fifth and eighth categories. All Croatian citizens are equal. All foreigners who come to Croatian citizenship seek Croatian citizenship are also equal. And they're foreigners until they get Croatian citizenship. So let's not talk in the categories of our own feelings but in the categories of the law. We are here in the legislative home of the Croatian Parliament. So what I propose here is that everyone who comes into Croatian citizenship, of course not these million and a half who have already entered, for God's sakes, are already Croatian citizens, but everyone because one institutional way shows that they know Croatian, that they value Croatian culture. And that's it. There is no trumpet anywhere, nor is it the Chinese Law, nor the Chilean Croatian Law, nor the speck of thinking that they are now categorized, so first-class Croats will take a small exam, and Croats will take a second-class major exam. Well, that's really crazy. I'd like to pray that if it's possible for the discussion to hold on to the measure of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84149	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84150	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting an incorrect assumption, so when it comes to foreigners to work, making the difference of Croats is not a stranger in terms of what a colleague says unlike a stranger who is Italian, who is a German, who is an Austrian, that's an important difference in all of that. That's what all the countries in the world have. So a Croatian who does not have Croatian citizenship, he is not a foreigner and all countries have other rules for such citizens in terms of admission to citizenship from clean strangers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84151	Dear Representative Zlatko Kramaric, club representative of HSLS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84152	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. It is very dangerous when such a serious topic is such as the Law on Croatian Citizenship and the Law on Foreigners, when emotions are involved. Emotional debates are always a little irrational. I'm just going to remind you this little bit, and some here in this House were sitting, whether it was '92, '93. The year we were visited by a representative in Chilean, from the Chilean Parliament of origin of Croatia. Here he gave a speech in Spanish. That speech was also very emotional. The man did not know Croatian even though he was of Croatian origin and certainly that the fact that he spoke in the Croatian Parliament meant a great deal to him. But he spoke to us in Spanish, for he apparently belonged to a generation of Chilean Croats who unfortunately forgot their mother tongue. And now it would be really interesting how to treat him. Do you, like, would he have the right to gain Croatian citizenship but according to these oatmeals that are set here. It seems to me that what we were witnessing in certainly some of those very tumultuous times, the times that we treated some things, and also Croatian citizenship quite lightly, not to say liberally, so then otherwise this sacred document for many countries was too easy to obtain. It was too easy to get it. Try really comparing it with some other countries, so you'll see how many problems you have so that you don't know how to become an American citizen or citizen of another country. It doesn't go there a bit easily, no matter what your feelings are, what emotions they were. And yet, unfortunately, and one good part of the citizens was actually, was not able to get Croatian citizenship, although it's not about any enemies but it's about getting these administrative regulations, one number of people really lost their ability to get really important, I'm going to be a little pathetic so I'm going to say holy document. Even at that time, several conferences were held that were just trying to solve this problem because it really concerned the collapse of the former state, and these problems appeared not only in Croatia but also in other countries of the former Yugoslavia, and I think that these were very interesting consultations and after each consultation were published and the books which have in some way testified that this was a very complex problem. What my dear colleague is offering under this bill of law, and I'll be free to say friend, there are some things that I have as a liberal that seem to be bothering me this little because I feel like we're treating some things quite lightly again. What does Croatian culture mean? I don't think it's as easy to define as this might seem at first sight. I think the big question is whether many of us here would pass something that, one easier test of what would be a Croatian culture, or what an identity would be. Today, in our universities where legitimate colleges are, cultural studies, identity issues, that surrenders, listens, serious books are written. Indeed, thank God and in Croatia we have a lot of experts dealing with this, and we are in no way lagging behind the practice of university in European and American universities. We're not behind that practice. But whether the identity of one is, I don't like to talk about those categories, but if regionally, say Slavonac, Dalmatian or Istrian is identical or if someone is a little less Istrian and more Slavonac, does that mean that's why it's a little less Croat. I don't think so. It is this diversity and precisely different traditions that took part in the creation of identity on, and therefore the chronology of identity is actually very interesting and should be respected, respectable and in no way say that there is more or less and that it is therefore less valuable. The same question of Croatian language, as well as I as a professor of Croatian language, finally it was for me, that I received a degree, it was for me bread, it was also something Croatian meant to me in the 19th century, which meant in the good part of the 20th century. Now the big question is whether it has the same role in the 21st century. ... Thank God it does. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But also ask your child if he actually, because he knows English and what he sees as Esperanto, whether it's a little less Croats, whether it's less or really we're trying to be unnecessary retrograde in any way. A colleague of Cain set an example of China in the sense of whether the Americans, the English, the French when he came, were necessarily learning Chinese. I'm afraid not. For the simple reason, it's pretty, I think that... Yeah, sure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Look, I don't think, of course, it's good that the more people learn Croatian, that in daily communication and business communication the Croatian language will be present, but I don't think that that's why I don't know the Business Bank or the Zagreb Bank or I don't know any other bank she's not Croatian by the most important one anyway, and now it's tragic and there's actually a real cache and there's a problem if yet, and we think that we're actually going to solve all these problems with a solution to the introduction of Croatian language as a basic communication language. We're not gonna solve this. What I'd like is that we don't actually suffer from unnecessary stereotypes. Our cultural identity and in many things our political identity is burdened with many stereotypes. Thank God we're not the only ones, or fortunately we're not the only ones in this world suffering from certain stereotypes. What the Italian president recently told us also says that man is burdened with stereotypes that really don't play, but let's not go back to other people's paranoias, that would be very dangerous. And let's let it really be an identity in some new times, times of globalisation, whatever we think about it, we can't avoid it and try to find a measure of our identity in these global processes. Afterwards, don't have to start leading the controversy again, so the President of the Parliament will be angry with me and you, and I wouldn't want him to be angry with you. He can do it for me, but I wouldn't want him to get mad at you. But these are serious topics. These are too serious topics that we're going over. We can be here if you have to act ultranationalist, that's okay. You got it. But what a fundamental problem in our society will indeed solve if we really stereotypes assume the processes that are happening in this world. And instead of having our answers to these processes and looking for a place of Croatian culture and enriching Croatia's culture and our identity and these processes, I really wouldn't want us to be reduced to some elements of the 19th century so I don't know the tambourine, the costume, the fabric and that's what we think it is. It's really not that. It's not my picture of a modern Croat in this urbanized world. We will really not get far with that picture, because eventually every modern Croat who holds, really holds on to himself, who, in his desire to be written differently, has a laptop by his side and has no tambourine. Well, then, between the laptops and the tambourine right now, every single one, and especially those young people that are coming, will choose the laptop. ... There, and that doesn't mean the tambourine has to disappear. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And for these very reasons, so I say a little bit to my colleagues from HNS, or my colleague Vuljanić, whom I say personally, that in this way we actually have a bit of an identity problem, a problem of Croatian culture, this is how we deal with quite lightly, casually, and I am afraid without some great debate, and in some way we really show that fear and modernisation, Europeanisation, globalisation, and that we are simply afraid of these processes instead of accepting them as a fact, but that we have our answers to questions and problems coming from that complex environment. We have to answer to other people's complexity with our own complexity, everything else is just a mere bump, beautiful paroles, phrases that can possibly work out like this, and a little emotional, not to say irrational charge in us, but it won't solve any of our problems, and not a problem as important as citizenship and the Foreigners' Law, and football players who pee balls are brought here to defend or hit goals well, and it's not bad to learn to speak Croatian but to be binding, I'm afraid nothing will solve it, because a good part of our players who play outside also doesn't know the language of the middle in which they play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84153	Well, an avalanche of false allegations, the whole avalanche. 7 Correction of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84154	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Kramaric, incorrectly said it was too easy to obtain Croatian citizenship. There's neither light nor heavy, etc. Even now, even one clumsy comparison was given to America and to obtaining American citizenship. Fortunately, the Americans did not have a communist totalitarian regime that would persecute their citizens like the communist totalitarian regime of Yugoslavia. Therefore, one historical injustice has been corrected and allowed by law to normally win citizenship to all Croats who have the right to do so. And also, I disagree with you that the tambourine is not part of the identity. Tamburica is very much, of course, but only one icon, one icon in the mosaic of this identity, including Luka Sorkočević, in which everything that makes Croatian identity a whole. So the tambourine is part of that identity. That's what our president knows very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84155	A tambourine, a daisy. And respected representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Correcting the incorrect allegations of colleagues, Kramaric, it is not so easy to gain citizenship in other countries. It's a lot easier than we do, especially for our citizens. Germany, for example. give citizenship to their citizens living within the borders of Germany in 1932. Canada, my children who were born in Canada, their children can be born here, will get citizenship without a problem. They don't have to know English. When they go to take citizenship, they bring with them a translator. So it's easy, too. And we here in Croatia, our birth rate is dropping and we're going to give it a citizenship, and we're going to give it to our people who want to come back with a lot of money, who love this country, who want this country, and we're not going to give them citizenship. And I have at least five proofs that the third knee that comes from the outside doesn't know Croatian well, but it came here to visit, it loved this country and came back with millions of dollars with which those who open the business of 20 thousand kuna will never have, nor care about Croatia Thank you very much. [[Intruder: So is Ruzo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84157	Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84158	This chain, mentioned by Zlatko, will be given Croatian citizenship, but whether members of indigenous minorities who leave these premises in the '50s, the 1960s, and means not foreigners can also easily get Croatian citizenship, as can those who play for the Croatian national team. Now, in these complexes that Kramaric was talking about, that we need to get rid of our own complexes, we should also talk. Otherwise, I absolutely agree with everyone, but I had to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84159	Dear Representative Pejo Trčević. What? Did you say something again? ... You didn't say anything ugly about Agent Kramaric? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Pejo Trčević, correction of the incorrect allegations. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it is incorrect that counterpart Kramaric claimed that Croatia initially acted liberally as regards receiving into Croatian citizenship, which means that it did not, therefore, need to receive all Croatians into Croatian citizenship. And then he says we should sort it out like other countries. And I note, that any German or Austrian in Croatia who seeks German or Austrian citizenship can get it. And so every Croat who seeks Croatian citizenship wherever he is must get it. It is the least Croatia can give to its Croats around the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84161	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, the next correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84162	Your Honor, Mr. President! So I'm correcting that incorrect assumption. Obviously, Mr Kramaric does not know how and how citizenship is acquired in other countries. Here, Mrs. Ruza said about the question of Germany and about the question of Canada. And it's really what he said, not that this debate is irrational but his speech was irrational and he's telling us about it now, says we have to give answers to processes like globalisation. He is eight years in power, so the people expect you to give an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84163	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84164	He would, and he wouldn't want anything to look like it. He would like to correct two incorrect allegations from counterpart Kramaric. I sort of count myself as a liberal and count myself as a friend of my colleague Kramaric. However, I cannot accept a statement that language is one of the stereotypes that we need more or less to remove from our way of thinking. It's not a language. The Italian president's behavior is, but the language is definitely not. The second correction of the incorrect quote, the definition of identity and proof of respect and knowledge of Croatian culture, I prescribed it from the existing law. I haven't changed the definition, I'm asking for proof that man can do it in a different way. And what it is, I really don't know what the legislator meant when the law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84165	Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84166	Mr. President! My colleague Kramarić, your speech that you gave for 10 minutes, you ran away from the topic. This is about the Law on Croatian Citizenship, the Change of the Law on Croatian Citizenship and the Change of the Law on Foreigners. Apparently, Croatians are not burdened with their pay complexes, they are rich in their name, language, history, etc. It seems to me that you are burdened with yourself and the complex, so I will quote the speech that I love most about my colleague Kramarić, is silence and a mild look. That's part of it. Part two. The Liberal Law on Croatian citizenship is liberal for foreigners but not for Croats. That's one thing. Therefore, when a stranger comes to Croatia, he stays for 5 years in Kaiser, does not meet other conditions, can change the place of residence or place of residence in the Republic of Croatia. They will prove twice the permit to stay for two and a half years and will qualify for Croatian citizenship. A foreigner or Croat who is under the Law on Foreigners adopted by the 2003 coalition government, the second and third generations are unfortunately foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. This is not done by an immigrant country that should become Croatia. I will tell my colleague Tomasic the Germans, the native Germans...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84167	Now, more or less...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84168	No matter where they come from, let me know when they get on German soil they get a ID. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84169	That's what we'll say later. And there it is, the violation of the Rules of Procedure by MP Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84170	I think everything, Mr. President, can be said, but really in no way should be offended. I mean, that's exactly why, that I'm loaded with myself, that's the medical category, you know. We here, this is political space. This is a meeting room where it's really spoken and I really think that I've spoken extremely carefully and just trying this paradigm of an existing one, which I've in no way questioned, is just to expand. And I'm just saying that because the way you think about it, now if I wanted to be bad right now, it really does belong to the 19th century paradigm. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84171	Okay, you can't do that now, colleague Kramarić, we need to...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84172	That's exactly the difference, the fundamental difference is exactly what paradigm you're following, which paradigm I'm following. In no way am I yours, I just wanted to expand it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84173	All right, all right, all right. The esteemed representative Slaven Letica is corrected by an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84174	So the number of corrections fellow Kramaric testifies to your meaning, you become yourself... And you took over Tony Vujic's sceptre. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But as for correcting the wrong allegations, you said that the Italian President Napolitane's statement was about his burden of the past. It's a lot of serious stuff in that statement. It is one side of a strange mixture of neostasism and neofascism because it denies Croatianism as a national identity. It's the first element. And conveys the worst racist prejudice. I'm glad that our Prime Minister was solidarity with the president of the state yesterday in a conviction and application of zero tolerance to this unsettled guy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84175	The Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84176	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that the actual debate on these two bill proposals should be converted from first reading to general debate. And that we do not have a debate in the first reading rather than a general debate for a simple reason, because both the conditions and ways of applying our Citizenship Act require in practice and the need to comply with the acquis of the European Union also requires that a more serious and detailed debate on the Law on Citizenship and the Law on Foreigners should lead to wider changes, amendments and additions to these laws be made. That's the first one. Secondly, I have to say that I am not sure which way and whether this solution would be good in which the certificate or the examinations of the knowledge of Croatian language and culture should be carried out every time by higher education institutions. I think it's a little too high. In addition, we have now passed the Law on the Training of Elderly Persons, or the School of Elderly Persons, who can establish institutions, associations, and so on, different bodies that can provide such knowledge. And foreign language bodies. So I'm not sure it has to be in higher school institutions. I agree that one who wants citizenship should give proof that he knows the Croatian language and culture or rather the language and culture of the country whose citizenship he wants to take. The other thing to ask about is the Foreign Law. You know, the need for work permits and business permits and language skills should, however, be a little bit related to the work being done. And in such a situation, we must be fully aware that in the mass of our emigrants and our workers who temporarily reside outside the Republic of Croatia do not know the language and culture of the countries in order to pass the exams at higher education institutions. But they still work there because of the need for work. Today, let us hope that the Croatian economy will also have a need for such workers because we will not be able to meet our working capacities, our economy's demands. And in this regard, I think that I should also put this question so that it must be taken before higher education institutions is actually a little serious, too serious, and I think it would be good to leave it for a general discussion as the first reason why there should be a general debate? Another reason to open up is the question, for example, that is not covered by the Law in the first reading, which is related, for example, to the implementation of Article 8. The law. According to Article 8 above, it is possible in Croatia to obtain citizenship under the legal conditions, however, and one of the conditions is required not only to have a 5-year stay, a continuous stay in the territory of the Republic of Croatia but also to have a leave from foreign citizenship or to provide proof that he will receive a leave if he is admitted into Croatian citizenship. This question is very interesting in practice. A large number of people living for years in the territory of the Republic of Croatia find it difficult to exercise their right to citizenship. We have cases like that. They're still being held in front of the interior ministry's competent authorities who have children, who have mates. Who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and they cannot get citizenship from the Republic of Croatia not because they do not fill 5 and more years of stay in the Republic of Croatia but also because they cannot get leave from their country for a simple reason, because their country cannot do the same thing as ours can't give leave and so on. The question arises whether we could go to a small one of the changes that, of course, arises from the assumption that such a person would make a written certificate that she steps out of the citizenship of the country in which she was until then and that this would be one of the evidence that would be important for the possible achievement of this type of citizenship which would be important to consider this issue. I think that a whole series of problems that this, this kind of citizens in our country who don't come to terms with themselves would open up and allow questions that, that this problem is solved which is serious for them because they don't practically have travel documents or personal IDs at all for movement in the Republic of Croatia. Often they get permits for temporary stay and so on and so forth, which only extends from year to year. That's a very serious problem. This Croatia cannot afford to be a legal state, a civilised state. The third question, you know colleagues and colleagues, was about how to provide children or persons to emigrants who reside outside the Republic of Croatia and reside outside the Republic of Croatia because they moved out to acquire Croatian citizenship among other things if they know or do not know the language. First I have to tell you this debate will follow. But not from this aspect that we've discussed so far. Our law in that part is very liberal and he says very clearly: "Immigrants or their children who are out there if they apply for admission to Croatian citizenship on them will not apply Article 8(1) to 4th, which is among other things and that they know the Croatian language." And they will get citizenship. But what follows us. It follows us that we will have to comply this article of the law with the acts of the Council of Europe and of the European Union relating to the position of persons who... And we will have this debate in the House and we will have to see in this context how to protect the interests of such citizens and our persons in accordance with these documents, of course... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Council of Europe, the European Union, in order to coordinate with the acquis on the one hand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And, of course, on the other hand of the Constitution, on the third hand, the deliberate desire of the Republic of Croatia that children of our emigrants, i.e. citizens, can exercise certain rights and the right to obtain citizenship in this respect. And those who intend to correct me may first see Article 11. Laws in relation to Article 8. The law I was talking about so we wouldn't run into each other. Furthermore, what I would especially like to point out is that we also have a very interesting thing contained in the law that has actually allowed some people to gain citizenship and in a way that has subsequently compromised us. And that's an article 12 that says, among other things, this. "A foreigner whose admission to Croatian citizenship would be of interest to the Republic of Croatia can earn Croatian citizenship through birth, although I do not satisfy the assumptions set out in Article 8(1) to (4)."or that he can get under the same conditions citizenship as the child of the Croats who moved out of Croatia. So very simple. You see, in that segment, we did not "represent interest in the Republic of Croatia" by law determine what is meant by that. Unfortunately, among other things, some of them also received citizenship, which was revealed and as persons belonging to a criminal mile, not only by domestic but by an international caliber. And I think it also compromised the Republic of Croatia, a little bit of our law and everything. All this requires, in my deep conviction, the need for a serious debate on the Law on Citizenship, a serious debate on the Law on Foreigners. And in this respect, of course, I know when to discuss especially the people who need citizenship and who are from evicted Croatia, Croatian citizens of the Republic of Croatia as a dual citizenship that in that segment we have a special question. But there's one more fact of the bill in that line of work. That this simplification must also resolve the issue of the dismissal of foreign citizenship because you have a lot of foreign states that do not have an institute of layoffs and in which citizenship of Croats who have moved out in their own time before. The issue, therefore, may still need to be liberalised to the extent that this is possible in relation to the international documents that we will have to agree on. Because we must not forget that this is, however, the relationship between a person and a state on the one hand, but that it also has its own public-legal character, which is bound by international public law and in this respect we need to agree that part in order to be, as says modern legislation in that segment. And the last thing I'd like to point out about the Foreign Law. It's a matter of handing out work and handing out licenses, business licenses you know for more than a year. And you see, in the first year, especially when it comes to a business license, when it comes to establishing a company, when it comes to establishing a legal person, it's only then that person should know if he's going to do those jobs himself to speak the language. Obviously, in that segment it's divided that's not the most important thing. It is far more important that we can communicate in Croatian, communicate when it comes to the business part, and the other question is that we want to give that support. I don't think it has to be a high school facility. Moreover, if such a formulation remained, it seems to me that we could interpret it as eligible for this law to obtain a special form of work for higher education institutions as an extra job which is particularly valued and charged on the market. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84177	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84178	Mr. President, colleague Arlovic. As an expert lawyer, and you have proved this here for years in the Croatian Parliament, I think you have read the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Law on Citizenship of the Council of Europe Convention. You said that by proposing this law that we will discuss tomorrow in the Croatian Parliament and we will have to amend the law at 16:30 because of this Convention. That's not true. It is true that in the Proposal for a Law on the Citizenship of the Council, the Council of Europe Convention 26 states that each country can sovereignly leave its laws on Croatian citizenship and establish according to the Constitution of its country what best, in the best way, can preserve its national interests, in this case it is our national interest that the Law on Croatian Citizenship does not change either Article 16 nor Article 30. And read the Convention, Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84179	You have a replica now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84180	Kola Arlović said a lot so he mentioned Croatian emigration, so he mentioned marriage mates who are Croatian citizens and their partners are not Croatian citizens can absolutely get Croatian citizenship if they meet all the conditions of the Croatian Citizenship Act under Article 11. That'd be the first one. Secondly, you said we shouldn't be burdened with our identity and our language, absolutely not. So you mentioned some lands. So I'm going to tell you that a stranger in the Federal Republic of Germany can't be, teaching German or national subjects, so he just graduated college in Tübingen. Let's look up to the French and the Germans.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84181	Replica, Vice-President of the Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84182	Dear colleagues, he may not be able to teach in Germany, but I know a lot of Croatians living in both Germany and outside Germany and other Western countries where they teach at the highest scientific institutions. I don't think maybe language, but they teach very much, slowly, very much. But I also have to tell you that the Germans never asked for such strict conditions for knowledge of German language for foreigners so that they could work in Germany, that they could get a work permit or that they could get a business license. If that were so likely at the time you were going, you wouldn't get a job either. Secondly, it's... In Germany, yes, you see. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The second thing I wanted to say. I was talking about not this resolution that you're talking about. I was talking about the need to bring our legislation on citizenship and foreigners into line with the acquis of the European Union. And in this respect, whether or not the article of this resolution will be applied, this is what we will see when we align. I didn't say what you said as a correction. Thirdly, you know you have mixed up the acquisitions of citizenship for people who now unfortunately have residence and residence in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. they have no residence but stay, and they have citizenship for their spouses and children in Croatia, so I cannot get it, with citizenship for emigrants. Namely, the one who stays in the Republic of Croatia and is due after 5 years of birth to obtain citizenship one of the conditions is required to give leave from citizenship and must know Croatian language. He knows it, he can't get citizenship because he can't, because his country doesn't give him a leave, an ex where he would, and he really lives in Croatia for 20, 15, 30 and more years. And the third question I was talking about is the issue of emigrants. This is regulated by Article 11 in which it is said, I quote: "Immigrants as well as their descendants can acquire birth...", so their right is, they do not, they can gain Croatian citizenship even though they do not satisfy the assumptions set out in Article 8(1) to (4). And points 1 to 4 speak of years of life to the question of language ignorance, so I ask that you have an account in this respect. Thank you very much. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84183	You don't say "dude her." ... Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84184	Dear Mr. President, I am very pleased that you have been lexically intervened, which means that you are meeting the elementary requirement that my colleague Vuljanic sets for you to have Croatian citizenship, and Zdenka and I are questionable. I'm because of the useful "n" at the end instead of "m" and the one that speaks dialectally. However, I will begin this debate once again by reading carefully the statement of Mr. President to us neighbouring friendly country, Giorgio Napolitana, who says: "The drama of the July-Dalmatia people" of the July-Dalmatia people "have caused "the Slavic bloodthirsty hatred and anger and the Slavic anexionist aspirations, which have been overcome especially in the Peace Treaty in 1947 and which have received the ominous outlines of ethnic cleansing". So if you can make one synthesis of aggressive prejudices that you can find already in Hegel's philosophy of history in more or less all classics of Marxism, in all the theories of fascism and Nazism, it looks here. There are no Croats and Croats as categories. Slavs or slaves are out there somewhere, they are bloodthirsty and wild and in that sense I think that my colleague Vuljanic has tried well to address the basic assumptions of Croatianism by looking for a foothold in the language or in the elemental knowledge of language. Immediately, I would say that there is certainly a need to make positive discrimination between colleagues Vuljanic towards our diaspora, under which there should be much more liberal and less demands when it comes to the basic knowledge of Croatian language. And your other desire to find identity in culture. It's certainly a very fluid category and it would be very difficult to operate on. When it comes to the fear of small peripheral few and small peoples from the threat of their own self or identity, it is very well known in European history. About him, he wrote about Milan Kunder, and something on that trail was written by Finkelcraut quoting Kunder. He says that great nations, thinking of great European peoples, include very interesting Polish people, thinking of French, Italians, Germans, Americans, Englishmen who used to be British, but today they are not because they too are identically separated and there are separate identities of Welsh, Scottish, Irish and English. Their anthems, their national epics, celebrate the great power, wisdom, and inviolability of these great nations. Croatians and Poles in the anthem, while others in the wake have the same strof "yet Croatia has not failed" or "yet Croatia has not failed". You, Mr. President, remember well when I protested, because it was recently a mandatory part of the repertoire in this House of Commons. I thank you for throwing it out now and putting our country in. The same verse exists in the Polish anthem. Therefore, fears of the threat of Croatian identity in the future European Union are entirely realistic. There's a few good news. The biggest Croatian nationalists and patriots, renaissances and wises were usually foreigners. So Sulek, who modernized the Croatian language, found a practically backward rural peasant language that had 200, 300 concepts of eating, sleeping, making love and sweating, but had no termological instrumentation to deal with the modern challenges of the industrial revolution. He invented about a thousand, a thousand, and 200 concepts of which some survived, such as the concept of a station, although at that time they mocked him. Some concepts such as measurement and calculus for geometry and mathematics did not survive. Shenoa was also a foreigner, founded by a modern Croatian novel. Strossmayer was a foreigner and became one of the largest builders, mecen and wise men in Croatian history. It is therefore impossible to imagine the situation that some small Chinese, some Italian, some Slovak, Schweb, will become a great Croatian nationalist. We were increasingly threatened by Croats who thought being a Croatian patriot was something beneath honor, something in the way that counterpart Kramarić used to say on one side to commend for his openness and a little regret because he thought patriotism was something that belonged to the 19th century. The threat of Croatian language is a serious subject that I have no right to talk about because I am not an expert in this area. There are many sources of language endangerment, dialectality is one of these sources. Instead of being rich in Croatian literary language and Croatian standard language, it is now being promoted on Croatian television, for example, on other mass media, which was practically unimaginable yesterday because Croatian television had to be spoken in Croatian standard or literary language. Today there are various reporters, journalists who speak at home, speak as they speak at home. So that's one source. Another source, because that little language doesn't have this Shulek today, and there's no freedom to create several Shuleks. Because as soon as something is done, and something has tried to make a fellow Primorac by forming a Council for the Croatian Standard Language Standard, then a huge mass of people appear who say it will be some quasi violence in the language, as if language itself is not a convention. And when it comes to the obsolescence of patriotism, I'll tell you my younger son went to first grade high school in Texas where there are double identities, a confederal that is visible in every emotional contact. There a girl or a boy can marry a Slovak, a Croat, a Bulgarian and a Slavon, or a member of the Napolitani people, but if a Yankee were to marry it's like she decided to marry anyone who's in India untouchabale. In that situation every morning, it starts with an American anthem and children watch the American flag. It's the American people, the people of the flag. I would like to see the Croatian people become a people of the flag. To cultivate in the Croatian public when it comes to large national holidays and religious holidays, to fly Croatian flags because it is convenient. Even a bit of a curly Croatian flag isn't bad. The flags are part of the folklore, the rainy times. All in all, Mr. Vuljanic, I heartily support your wonderful suggestions and I'm very sure they won't pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84185	But there's always hope. We have five replicas. First, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84186	Thank you, Mr. President. Just that fellow Letica and the public as well as other colleagues were saying, I wasn't speaking against patriotism but I was just saying that it wouldn't be good if we stayed at the level of patriotism in the 19th century. That's a big difference. On the other hand, the same thing was started by his colleague, when he said that you were well-dominated in Croatian literary language and that he and his colleague Babic were in danger. Exactly the opposite of that. Both colleague Babic and colleague Letica and their diocular idiom also belong to the Croatian language Corps and they are also legitimate idioms within the Croatian language. Let's not let what Krleža did in "The Balads of Petrice Kerempuha" happen to Ludevit Gai, that he tried to hammer and caucusly throw out the window. And thus significantly impoverished the identity of the Croatian Corps. That's exactly why I like dialects, idioms that come from the mouth of my colleague Babic. I also love this "n" in the end coming out of my fellow Letica's mouth. If we're gonna do it and say it [[But why don't you just go and talk?]] [[Why not?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84187	What about the assembly room?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84188	We wouldn't all pass that exam. Don't worry, those of you who think you're talking to her wouldn't pass. I don't mean you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84189	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84190	Well, patriotism is by no means a feeling of 19th or 20th or 22nd century. It's one elemental feeling that... It defines, for example, love for the cricket of birds or streams or rivers or places where she first fell in love. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, to think that patriotism is an out-of-date thing, and that some new internationalism is a regional type, a region, because if there is a region as a new concept, something is modern, it's something that threatens me. And it threatens all people who know at least something about identity theories and patriotism theories.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84191	Another replica, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that in his opening speech my colleague Letica well absorbed this speech by Italian President Napolitan, who was a threat to the Croatian public. And there is no need to diminish the meaning of his words. And no way to exculpate. Let's just remember at the time of iredentism, the Italian occupations of these parts of our neighborhoods as he spoke... He literally hardened this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether the fight is civilized or uncivilized doesn't matter at all. Against these lazy and incompetent cattlemen, we cannot perform with strict national consciousness, but with hatred. If we're lucky and the government belongs to the country of Italy, we'll soon get rid of these Slovenian and Croatian cattlemen. Doesn't it remind us, isn't this the Italian President's sequel to these monstrous things that the Croats in these parts of Istria, Zadar, the Dalmatian islands felt? Therefore, the continuation of this policy, either under Prodi or Berlusconi versus Croatia, has not changed. In fact, we haven't responded properly in the last three years. And things like that were escalating. Let's just remember what Vice President Finna did during the Berlusconi government, when he said that Zadar, Istria, the Dalmatian islands of the historic Italian country. We didn't react to that. For the first time, it was sharply reacted during the coalition government when our then Foreign Minister Tonino Picula reacted on behalf of the government, when he reacted in a way that prevented any honour from being given by the President of Italy, then Italy's President, from calling a mayor of Zadar into exile. At that time, a fierce protest note was sent to Rome, and it did not happen. Therefore, it is necessary to react. One consequentiality and acuity in that direction should be expressed, and everyone then respects it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84193	I agree. The Croatian Parliament has adopted a Declaration that has strongly condemned these irredential claims on Croatia very clearly and strongly. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84194	Wise Mr. President. This time I think we should express a deep regret, not to condemn it, but it's a high level. That's the president of our friendly states and to express our regret would be an adequate reaction to this House of Commons. I fully understand you colleagues, Antičević Marinović, especially because you are from Zadar. You know that tragic history. Iredentism, expansionism begins as a little match after which a great fire follows. Bora Corba began evil by proclaiming us as Vienna horsemen. This one wants to declare us savages. Therefore, I am for zero tolerance compared to such phenomena. And the most I count on is our colleague Fury Radin, who I expect will raise his wise voice that this situation prevails.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84195	Thank you. The Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84196	Mr. President! Dear fellow Letica, it's a good thing you mentioned President of Italy, Mr Napolitan. But it's also unacceptable to know that we're individually just saying it. That's not enough. Regardless of the resolution... I believe that the Croatian Parliament should also give such an initiative, given that we will be sitting next week, for this case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This statement should not only be a support to the President, the Government, etc., because it must first of all be an expression of the will of the representatives of the Croatian people. We represent the Croatian people, we have been elected to Parliament, because it is a fact that, from this statement, President of Italy Napolitan can be read first, the disrespect of the Croatian people and its understatement. Then some forms of territorial claim can also be read, an attempt to speak towards some kind of revision of historical documents of the Paris Agreement, of the Isolation Agreements and so on. Of course, the question is there and the work of the Historical Commission because this statement is completely falling away from the work and findings of the Historical Commission, the joint historical commission formed by Italy and me and myself, I'm not about to express our regret, you know? I think that in our statement, we must make a point that we believe that at such statements and such views as are expressed in the relationship, in this statement by President Napolitan on the day of reconciliation, United Europe, good neighbourly and friendly relations cannot be built because they actually contain some of the interests that are completely conflicting and conflicting with neighbours and good neighbourly relations. And that is why I would be in favour of considering today, if, of course, the majority party accepts this, that a joint working group may be formed and that, together with the help of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, would prepare one statement or some other document adequate, a necessary document that the Parliament would consider by the end of next week, adopt and take its position which would actually be Parliament's position and which document should be delivered between the other and the bodies of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84197	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84198	I will take advantage of the opportunity to say what I think in the Council of Europe in the context of my modest opportunities. And Mr. Vice President of our Parliament, I don't think there should be a spectacular reaction, but I agree, I suggested that it be a statement of regret, but beyond that statement, there may be, of course, a lot of things being said. So only the first sentence is regret. And anything else we say would certainly be easier than what I would say if I were the president of our Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84199	And the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84200	Dear Mr. President, you are right that for Croatia the most dangerous are those Croats who are ashamed of patriotism and, yes, again you are right about not speaking patrioticly as from, 19, 20, 21, 22. We're saying it as Americans say it. And that you are correct is last week's gathering in Sheraton, where many as Croats, or even members of this House, have organized an assembly to determine the truth about the Homeland War. There was Mrs. Vesna Pusic first. I also saw Mr. Arlovich. So they bring outside Carla del Ponte and various people to determine the truth about the Homeland War in Croatia. It's unimaginable everywhere else. Let's ask you a question, could you say... Organize? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Surely they wouldn't be able to arrange for you to determine the truth about the conflict in Gaza and the region of Sinai. And such Croats who, in essence with such an alleged truth about the Homeland War throw away, muds Homeland War certainly do not work for the good and future of the Croatian state, especially when the president of HHO attacks the Bed of Love that they were essentially pulling out children, that they are no association to send her to the Croatian Army. I mean, those are dangerous messages, and in that sense, you're certainly right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84201	Gentlemen, we have gone from the addition of the Law on Foreigners and the Law on Croatian Citizenship to all possible topics of a highly extended nature. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84202	Mr. President Kovacevic injured Article 214 because he began to speak and with his conduct he deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. In the Assembly, business plans are to talk about the subject on the agenda. It's possible to say that in the replica, but it's not possible to speak about this Sheraton theme at least. And at least it's not allowed to speak from the aspect of carrying out false data. The meeting was organized by associations with the patronage of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, international representations in the Republic of Croatia and we were invited as guests and we were there to participate as guests, parliamentary guests on the issue. And last thing, you know Croatia is not allowed and will never be ashamed of the truth. We must keep on finding out the truth and, if so, in establishing this truth, it shows that anyone has committed an dishonest or illegal act that is personally responsible for this part, not the Croatian and Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84203	And another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84204	Well, Mr. Arlovic just injured Rule 209 and what he was saying about article 214 has nothing to do with it. Mr. Arlovic, you will not give me permission to speak at the Croatian Parliament. I was talking about patriotism and I'm attached to Mr. Letica's subject. You can do that to someone in the SDP, in the party, but you can't even say that to me. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84205	Thank you. You've hurt, peace, peace please! You've hurt the Rules of Procedure both. It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. It was a semi-memic one. Not through it. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84206	Although it seems that fellow Kovacevic went off topic not quite because we have one mass people of Croatian... [[Intruder: Yes, with one foot and is.]] Croatian citizens who will return from our neighbouring countries. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Make them welcome. But really, the idea to organize theoretical myths is not good. Because the paraphrase of famous and ominous rallys is the truth that has been organised in Serbia, Montenegro and which have been the introduction to war. And that's one convenient or awkward association and analogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84207	And the last replica, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84208	I will return to Mr. Napolitan, and I will personally strive every day to express my protest against what he said in this House because I would tell him even though he doesn't care, he won't hear, and someone still wants to thank the Italians, I am at this point older than my did Marina who was killed at the age of 43. I'm older than my two uncles or uncles as we say who were killed both under the age of 20 because it wasn't an opera war. Not because they were anexionists, but because Split belonged to the Kingdom of Italy because of this and the fact that we're not getting into it now, and they were against it. I will protest for those Vishans who rowed from Vis, 20 of them to come to Split and in the sun and the heat standing two days below the tarp on the ship and could stay on Visa. What I know, working the field, living in Italy, in quotes, as they went to fight that Italy. I'm going to protest what they did, what my second did to Marin and Grandma Vice ended up in Italian prisons. I'm going to protest because my grandmother Jela ended up in an Italian boarding school and for all of them, for all those Splits who ended up in Lipari. I will protest that Giorgio Napolitano insulted all Croatians and the Croatian state I will protest because those who occupied us speak of us as occupiers. And I think that we most strongly need to answer that, and I agree with those who say that this House should speak, as Jean Franco Finny said when he said those things that were not tolerable for any normal ear in Croatia. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84209	And the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica, the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84210	It is the touching testimony of family Mr. Jurjevic. We in Dalmatia have related testimony, especially families who were expelled, went to... dying, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think Mr. Napolitano and the Italian public know about these tragedies. They don't know, and maybe some kind of gesture would be to say that you too, Mr. Jurević, will head for Rome and testify exactly about this family so that the saga, or antisagi, in the Parliament there can be ashamed of those Italians. Because they were doing wonders.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84211	Final review, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84212	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. One thing this debate showed. If nothing else is that the debate on language and language itself is the essence, the center, the essence of identity and patriotism for all of us, for each of us individually, for all of us collectively, for all parties, there's nothing to do with what political sex we're in. The fact is that when we start talking about language very quickly, the debate comes to the protection of national identity, there are current conflicts that Croatia has on various sides, and now it has with Italy. So it comes to showing his tongue as the last barrier. Like the last barrier behind which we stand with our own identity. Inside that language, regardless of what we are, we are caucasians, hammers, we have n in the end or m in the end, I'm not talking about standard language, I'm talking about language as a means of communication and way of thinking. Behind that barrier we are who we are. We are who we are. We're Croatian citizens, I don't even speak national right now, I speak politically. We are Croatian citizens behind that barrier. There's something else outside that barrier. Which way, friends, which times danger. That was the fundamental reason why I set out to propose these laws. It is clear to me, and our history shows about the Ilir movement and before it that the national identity of Croatians and Croatian citizens and Croatian states can be preserved, it needs primarily through the Croatian language, so through the means of communication and the means of common opinion. That's what we have in common. Which we'll always agree on, no matter what the difference. Only a small response from counterpart Arlovic why a higher education institution in this law was proposed to check the knowledge of Croatian language. Because there is. She's already organized, and she's already doing that job. The Faculty of Philosophy has an office that deals with the very team, so it educates foreign students, teaches them Croatian so that they can study at Croatian universities tomorrow. Of course, it could be any other institution that's competent, that has people that can do it. That's what I wrote in the proposal and wrote, or some other institution authorized by the central government. What are these proposals about? Look, Croatian citizens living in Croatia, so those who used to be there, they learned Croatian at school, learned from their moms and dads at home and speak Croatian, and this way of thinking is part of their identity. Those who come from outside don't have that part as part of their identity. My request is that they learn to learn that part at school, very simply, no matter who it's about. In no way, in any way do I want to put here in a subordinate position of diaspora, people from diaspora who emotionally feel the same as Croats as you and I or any of us, has nothing to do with it. But the way you think, the way you communicate through language, I think you should be bound by all citizens. A similar situation with regard to the preservation of language and identity within the functioning of the state can also be applied to this Foreign Law in that foreigners should know that they can function normally here. So there are rational arguments why these laws should be supported, functionality, equality before the law, equality of all before the law, therefore, and a clear procedure. There are emotional arguments. So language as an identity, like what we really are. So now I colleague Letica said he's almost sure it won't pass. I'm not sure I wouldn't go to that if I'm sure it won't pass. But if these rational arguments go out, if they don't turn on the emotional arguments, then we take out a deck of cards and we cancel the poker game, so who gets that argument to work. But don't stand up against the Croatian language with some insubstantial explanation that the government will take care of it in a year. It won't be. In a year, we will have a new government that will take care of all the new and very important things that will happen in a year. He's not gonna do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84213	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Croatian Citizenship is proposed by the legislator Nikola Vuljanic. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposed draft law is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. ... You didn't hear? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then please cheer the corner back in the corner to quiet down a little bit and yes. Therefore, it is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Croatian Citizenship, proposed by MP Nikola Vuljanic. And the proposal is that the bill is not accepted. We can vote! The result? With 64 votes in favour, four abstentions and 38 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84308	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. What to say to the new Administrative Council of HINA. If we go back a little bit in history, we can say that the Government proposed a little over half a year ago to the Administrative Council that it now resolves, that the HND as an institution was against this Governing Council, which was proposed by the Government by reason that this Administrative Council is not competent and that it is not professional to execute its own, or what they should do in the HINA Governance Council. Where we have that the HND has asked the Government and the Parliament to also amend the Media and Electronic Media Act and is also proposed to propose and select and appoint representatives of the HINA Governance Council in another way. On 13 October, the Croatian Government proposed to the Parliament to resolve this same Administrative Council, which she proposed to the Croatian Parliament, because she felt that the Administrative Council without a fifth member of staff had eliminated the possibility that employees would speak their views on the candidates of directors of HINA and thus responded and they considered it to be a democratic deficit that happened in this case in the Governing Council. On the other hand, when we see what we received as a proposal, there was a public call where there were candidates quite a bit, but we got at the clubs as many candidates as they were elected, so I asked whether it was a form of a democratic deficit, because also today the Information Committee only had its own session because they insisted from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to deliver all candidates who applied for a public call. And I'm not even going to say that the criteria for selecting these candidates are one mental noun that we really have no idea by which criteria the members of this Governing Council are chosen. It means that after the disbanding of the previous Governing Council, a new one should be appointed and you will, of course, re-commence the selection of directors, and I'm afraid it will be so until the chair is placed in the taste of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because we still see that there is a desire to control information, to control the media, and we also saw that today and on the board that the very tight majority of these members of the board have passed. The IDS therefore cannot support these members of the Governing Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84309	Thank you. HNS representative club, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84310	Thank you, Mr. President. Same as three and a half months ago, exactly 19.10. The Croatian People's Party will not support such a choice anyway. Not because of the people the government has proposed and not because of their careers and their abilities, their professionalism, their expertise, and I don't know what, but because of the way we came to that election. I'd like to remind you, seven and a half months ago here in Parliament, we elected four members of the council, the Governing Council of HINA. At that time, it was explained by the government that we must do this urgently, that the legal deadlines stand out, that we must respect the procedure and that the Director must be chosen urgently. Almost everyone in the opposition said that we should wait for a council member to be elected, but there was no explanation we don't have time, all deadlines stand out, we have to do it. And, of course, we've chosen the Horses of the Administrative Council, and that Board of Directors has chosen the Director, and I'm guessing it chose the wrong person. Then we disbanded that council, and in the meantime, with the explanation that we should wait, believe with such an explanation, we should wait for the staff board to appoint their member, and then we disbanded them, and then we discussed that one member so that today we could come with a proposal to appoint everything, all five. Now, and then, and now the government has come with a proposal of people who are the most professional, most capable, most competent, and I don't know whether to trust the government for those first or for these others. Not getting into the people that are at all. It's only a procedure because even then and now it's been said that they're the most professional, most capable and that they'll do the best job in any case. There was no respect for the procedure at the time. Now, if we take out any details, the procedure is respected. However, the argument is the same. The government came with a proposal of four members. We need to confirm and confirm those four members of the Employment Council. Then I expressed my suspicion that it was within party work, that the government was misleading us in the Parliament and that it was returning us to the procedure something that shouldn't come in here at all, that we were supposed to do legally and we weren't legally done. I still think this is a prank on us in the Parliament so it turns out we didn't do the right thing. But it's not about us. We've done everything by law. The only one who put hot potatoes in here for us to fight is the government, because both the first and second times for completely different people claim to be the most capable and most competent for the Administrative Council of HINA. And for this reason, the Croatian People's Party will not in any case support this administrative council of HINA, not because of people, but because of the way it is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84311	Thank you. SDP representative club, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, with that unfortunate board of directors HINA, the government is kind of out of luck. When she proposed now that the Council has been resolved, we here in the Assembly have warned you not to do this. You don't suggest professional people. Shame on you. You're putting them in an awkward situation. That's where the media expert was playing the vet. A real porter expert. We kindly warned you. Well, HINA is a very important facility. Well, it's a public service. So don't disrespect both the public and the profession and forcefully appoint such a council. You didn't want to listen as a government or as a parliamentary majority. You took advantage of your ability to appoint these people. Then it is now as it was, asking the government to propose to them the 5th member of staff. Prayer and prayer. All in vain. The government can't propose it. Then all the deadlines expired, so the board of directors appointed the board of directors with four members. And that's where the drama came from. There began something ugly, aggressive, but also transparent. The government reacted with a spot. First, she asked for the Council to be resolved, and then for the selection of that principal to be annulled. And the principal was peacefully elected, with four members of the Council unanimously. Neither can the government ask for it to be annulled. He may request that the Council be disbanded, the truth of God to Parliament, the same Council she herself has proposed. How did this outrageous confusion happen? I don't know, it stays wrapped in a veil of secrets. Now if it's true that this is the prime minister's promise to be the director of someone else, now is it true that his decision didn't come to the Council, so it chose the wrong person who didn't choose the prime minister personally, we don't know what happened. But in any case, the government reacted, but it's better if we don't know. Better both for the government and for the public and for this country. Now either way, the government couldn't bear it, obviously even the prime minister himself, to destroy that authority. And what did the members of the Council do, as they are? They offered resignations. They didn't defend their position, they didn't hold their position, they didn't have the courage to tell the government to leave us alone. You proposed us and we chose our principal for your best conviction and now leave us alone. Don't replace us because we have fulfilled our duty. No, I don't. They agreed to be replaced, and they all offered their resignations when they heard the spontaneous. Not all of them, but four of them. When they heard that great spontaneity from the government, they retreated. And we got rid of them. What's the government doing again? The government is now offering four names again. More candidates have come forward. 22 or how much? He has distinguished names from media experts, legal sciences. The government does not choose these famous or most famous, and prominent or most prominent. She's picking someone else again. We once warned for nothing, don't do it. We're probably warning you again in vain. Don't do that. Don't play with HINA. So let's understand once, that we need to introduce a rule in this country, that when we're already doing calls, when we're calling experts to report for some prominent, important places, then let's respect their profession. Let us respect their knowledge, respect their reputation. So let's pick the best. It remains a mystery by which the government used the criteria to propose the ones it proposes. The government does not think that it must explain it here in Parliament or in public. The government doesn't think it's her obligation to the public, to say, you see this one's not good for that and that, so we think the other one's better. There's no need for the government to say something like that. She is simply using her right to choose some of the proposed candidates, to refer them here to the parliamentary procedure, so regardless of what is obvious, beware, obviously they are not the best candidates. What's obvious to everyone is that they're obviously not the best candidates. What's behind this now? How can this be read now? What kind of messages are being sent to the public? First of all, messages to the general public: God’s people, so when the government calls some kind of public call for a place like this, don’t answer if you’re a respected expert. What you're gonna do, you don't stand a chance anyway. You're wasting your time, nerve, it doesn't matter anyway. And so the government will propose some of its own. It's a very ugly message to the public, a very ugly message to the profession. It will discourage, without further ado, all the people of reputation, all the people who mean something in this country, all the people who have spent their lives to gain knowledge, to advance in their own careers. They've reached some kind of high threshold. They will be discouraged, they will be discouraged to answer the government's calls in the first place. And that's not good. But the thing is even worse when it comes to such an institution as HINA. HINA undoubtedly represents one of the great values of this country. From the moment it was founded. I remember President Tudjman was then, it was also his authority appointed director of HINA. First director of HINA. And when he named him two or three days later, he went to visit the United States. And he told the director of HINA, "Publish that I will be accepted by the American president." This one answered him calmly, "We will announce when he sees you. That's how HINA began as an independent in far away, we know what time it was and how President Tudjman had broad powers and what authority he was in this regard. But HINA started out as an independent, and it started with one such, I could say defiance, with the greatest demand of almost supremacy that HINA publishes something or doesn't publish. And so she kept working. HINA has indeed become a good public service. It belongs to this country, to the citizens of this country. And it would be terribly dangerous if he showed up just to admit that now this HINA wants to turn into what he turned into, for example, the Vjesnik. In a mere newsletter, I wouldn't say no to the government or HDZ, perhaps only Prime Minister Sanader. And to whom it has caused the reading and reputation and influence of any public. A newspaper was destroyed. If that's what he's trying to do with HINA now, and it seems to me he's trying to do because second time, second time in the Administrative Council, he's trying to put people who certainly won't do his job as well as those who are more qualified to do it and have responded to this contest. Because you're careful if the criteria aren't expertise, then we're wondering what's the criterion? Beauty, height, better eyes or obedience? I am convinced that these physical criteria were not taken into account and that they were not in charge. Well, when it's not expertise, and then it's going to be a similarity. I don't think of a third. And the government didn't kind of point out that third one either. Well, if it's an attempt to control HINA as it has ruled the Vjesnik, then it's going to come up with a very negative echo. First of all, in the public domain. Well, that won't be well received. Well, that's not exactly what they're celebrating. But it will also be poorly received in the international public. The European Commission has already warned you about the latest report, it warned that there are attempts to control HINA and HRT. And she directly apostrophe of those two institutions. You hereby show one spite, one tenacity to deafen yourself to all warnings quite well-meaning. And to earn the European Commission's comments again. But it won't just be a reminder to you. And we are not evil when We warn you that these warnings will come. It will be a warning to all of Croatia. You as a chosen government must be responsible. You can't just look at your party interests, your particular interests, your group's interests. You have to look at the general interests and you have to lead them. For the sake of this country. That's why you're chosen. That's the mandate you got. And it's a pity you don't fulfill that mandate like that. Well, despite the best intentions of warning. Please, that's where 22 candidates came in. Who talked to them? Who invited them to the government to ask them to talk to them? How was that narrow choice made? How? No one explained that. You will certainly continue with what you started. You will bring this process to an end. You will choose those you choose. You're throwing it off the bench: "Normal, normal." Maybe that's normal for you. Perhaps it is normal for you to show contempt for the profession, to show contempt for the public, to show contempt for the warnings of the International Community. I believe it's normal for you, I trust you. I believe that's what you're honest about when you throw "normally". But, gentlemen, darlings, you can do it any way you want, however you want. Only that you must be aware that you are doing this to the damage of HINA and to the damages of all Croatia and its reputation both in public here and in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84313	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84314	Thank you very much. Out of a series of inaccuracies that my colleague Stazic put out here, I'll get at least two. He says the government wants to do the government's service with its proposal from HINA. The other way around. The basic criterion was that they would be political independent members of the Governing Council in order not to repeat the administrative council that did not blink with the eye when the then director made human rights and hired 33 journalists without a public competition, which is absolutely undemocratic, illegal and ultimately politically incorrect. As regards the criteria, the Government respected Article 12(3). The HINA Act and on that basis 4, and propose to this Assembly which I hope will confirm. So it's incorrect that the government didn't act in accordance with the law and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84315	Second correction, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84316	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Stazic incorrectly claimed that it is obvious to everyone that the proposed candidates are not the best candidates. If that's what you've all been thinking about, just the SDP and their members, then maybe you're right. But it's completely incorrect for the rest of us, because we think that people who are proposed to meet all the criteria that were in the public competition and that they are professional. Aren't high-school people professional? For those of you who have completed your doctorate and master's degree, aren't they professional? It seems to you that those who walked through colleges who didn't finish them are professional. So, and today you're giving us a lesson on similarity, an alleged similarity, you who are followers of the communist totalitarian regime and its party then it really went beyond measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84317	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84318	Thank you very much. So from this entire pamphlet, Mr. Stazic, I will only correct an incorrect assumption that the Government has sent this proposal to the public, or to experts, do not report to such competitions because you will not be selected. Just the other way around. Because if you look at the biographies of the four proposed and the biographies of the remaining 18 there are very subtle differences of fellow Stazic very subtle differences. And these four certainly have prerogatives with which to enter these duties. I strongly protest the disqualification of people again. And today you used the word "porter" from the last case. I don't allow it here in the Parliament. It's not decent, it's not moral. And no one would be good to you on this list that the government is proposing, absolutely certain. They'd only be good if you worked those lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84319	And the esteemed representative Franjo Arabovic, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84320	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues have made a lot of things right for me that I thought I'd say. Only one thing that must be incorrect. That nothing is wrong with what this government is proposing, and so is the director of HINA and the people who are employed in HINA. And look at the coincidences of the former director of HINA immediately after the shift, she becomes your party's spokeswoman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84321	HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84322	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The position of the Croatian party's club of rights related to HINA is long known. So HINA is, according to us, the rights of Croatian radio is an example of the objective and professional reporting of the Croatian public, and we always point out that for example to other media. And this is all that's happened and what's going on with the appointment of the Governing Council is not good for one of these professional and objective media that people do their job honestly and honestly. On the other hand, we, on behalf of the Croatian Party club, also recognize such comprehensive work. We said on behalf of the Croatian party's club that it is unacceptable that HINA will be left without the Governing Council because the law does not foresee such a possibility to act on HINA without the Governing Council. Unfortunately, the government didn't listen to us here. In the end, it's better off than no administrative council. And that's the only thing that's good that we're finally gonna get is the Administrative Council of HINA. But when it comes to all of this, we were the first ones to say it, the right ones, when it was the appointment of a lawyer for the children. Then we repeated this in the appointment of the Administrative Council and other appointments carried out by the Croatian Parliament. Are we finally going to regulate the procedure for selecting candidates for duties appointed by the Croatian Parliament? Shall we or won't we? Are we always going to be in a situation like this or something? It's normal out there. If we, the Croatian Parliament, then I guess the Croatian Parliament, the bodies of the Croatian Parliament, are permanent and may also have occasional bodies, have the right and obligation to carry out the procedure that when we vote, we know who we vote for. Because we represent Croatian citizens here. Each of us represents 30 thousand Croatian citizens in one way or another. Well, then I guess as a Parliament, we have the right and the right to lead and... a part of this procedure concerning elections and appointments, not only to vote or not to vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think we should make a deal here. Furthermore, we at the HSP club consider what, here are the objections that were in power yesterday, or former political power, but unfortunately it is in Croatia a fact that we finally need to get rid of. Every government in all places has its own experts. And that's this example. That's how it was for the former authorities. And they had their own experts, and now that they've come to the opposition, they've got democratic ones, that's the ex-post sense of what's happening to them. And that's not good for democracy in Croatia. You can't do one thing and say one thing when you're in power and the other when you're in opposition. That, I don't know who you mean to convince how well you've done. You also appointed administrative councils, so you changed cleaning women, all in the same way, which is not good for Croatia, which is not good for democracy and everything else. We do not want here, normally, that given this number of candidates, it was certainly possible that the Parliament was doing it this way as we rightists advocate to regulate, there were far more quality solutions perhaps in all of this. But I'm saying, every government has its own experts. It's dangerous. It's dangerous for Croatia. It's dangerous for the development of democracy. It is dangerous for all Croatian citizens to have access to all places under equal conditions. And we must finally change that in Croatia, not on this topic. But I'm not saying, look, we have a situation here that a lawyer with five years' staff is an expert. We know he can't even become a consultant at the state administration, because after a state-run professional exam, he needs to have five years of work experience. So he becomes an expert on the Administrative Council of HINA but he can't be a consultant at the State Administration, I mean it's really nonsensical. But it doesn't mean that a young person won't do his job, right? So let's not argue that these candidates are all bad. Let's get back to square one. Where's the cause of all this? The reason is that we do not have the legal rules that will regulate it and that when we decide when we make appointments then we must lead to a part of the procedure, not that it is governed by the government, because then they claim that the government, as in fact in many cases it turns out, is above the Croatian Parliament, because as the Government says it is decided, and it is not good for democracy, it is not good for all the other situations that are going to happen. So let's stay at the point of view that it's better than no solution and let's not go into political war when you all appoint your people for expertise and then again when you come to the opposition you attack or vice versa. We arrange it so that it will no longer be, there will be no such situation and we will achieve what the Croatian Constitution gives to all Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84323	Thank you. For the HSS club, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84324	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the proposing, colleagues and colleagues. Here I must say that we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club are truly surprised at the speed that this point came on the agenda this morning, because we received a half hour ago a report on the proposal for a decision to appoint part of the Board of Directors of the Croatian News Agency of the Information, Information and Media, and we are already discussing this item of the agenda right after half an hour. I may yet begin a little differently than my predecessors and I will remind us all here that, as a rule, in the work so far, whenever discussed in any way, whether the report or anything about HINA's work, we have generally always evaluated this work of HINA good. No one had any serious objections to HINA's work seven months ago, professionalism and correctness of reporting from most political, economic, cultural and other events, and mainly it worked both correctly and professionally. Perhaps we, as the HSS, had some higher expectations, or we expected perhaps more and better reporting on topics from agriculture, life in the country, protecting villages and rural areas, but at this point we will not look at these details. HINA has been profiled definitely that's what we can say, as an independent news agency, recognizable in this sense and in public. We would like to, regardless of these developments around HINA's Governance Council to actually believe that it will not affect the work of HINA so far, on exactly all of these characteristics that we talked about, which I was talking about at the beginning, correct reporting, professionalism in the first place and independence. But what is very important to us is that the employer is the current and important subject and the debate takes place in the election time. And every change of this type today we're talking about the Governing Council of HINA, and finally by asking a new director or director, immediately comes up or immediately shows up a series of questions, whether the ruling majority wants to control HINA and I'm just saying what can appear as a question, whether it will be, I have no reason to believe that it will happen, but also here there have been such discussions and I believe a part of the public can automatically think about that as well. Secondly, the question arises, so that's why we debated here seven months ago for these same benches, these same speakers on the same subject. If there was a desire, a need, or I don't know what reason to change something. Didn't we know seven months ago who these people we're choosing in the Administrative Council, at least what the government suggested, to find out now that they're incompetent? Reading a little report here on candidates turns out to be really the best of the best, so it says here everything. I wouldn't want to discuss whether or not they are after a while. I personally don't want to talk about candidates, I never will, I don't think that's kind of a procedure that's prescribed and that we all have to respect and that we shouldn't doubt. But what concerns us in the Croatian peasant party is what is the role of this Croatian Parliament when choosing the Administrative Council of HINA. The parent board is the Committee on Information, Information and Media and he is in fact only discussing the proposal... I will visit you all, this Committee on Information, Information and Media was established six years ago, I am proud to have been the first president of that committee, but I will remind you all together that we had then had a very large and important obligation at the beginning, how then, according to the current Law on HRT, to form the Administrative Council of HRT. We as a committee have opened a tender and we are all interested in calling for an interview to be presented, that we can get a complete picture of each interested candidate for member of the Croatian Governing Council. Today, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, unfortunately, has no role to play, and we as the Croatian Parliament need to change that. Therefore, respecting the fact that the relations on the board can not be changed, but I say it would be correct that if this Croatian Parliament should already appoint a administrative council, then both the board or the working body of this Croatian Parliament should have greater powers. I'm going to look at this procedure for a little while, anyway. I repeat seven months ago we discussed here and I spoke on behalf of the club and we said it was not good to do so, but today we have a factually almost state. There are four names in front of us. We know that there were 22 candidates and, in the Committee's explanation, that the members of the Committee from the work of the ruling party felt that the proposed candidates were quality and professional, and that they met all the necessary criteria set out in the HINA Act. That's basically all we know about all the candidates. The other 18 candidates I personally don't know who they are, we didn't even get on the bench here. And we Croatian Parliament have no obvious opportunity to see whether or not there were better candidates. Maybe someone does, but I'm personally saying we got on the bench today, this report from the Committee on Information, Information and Media, and in some ways we don't have the opportunity to talk about other candidates. Well, that's not our job after all. But it's the Committee's job, and I'm surprised the board actually didn't get a full list at the right session. And it's a failure that needs to be changed. So, this practice that, in fact, in the election year, changes the entire Governing Council of HINA, and ultimately setting up a new director is not good. If you wanted to, you should have done it a year ago, seven months ago, but not today. So, for this purely formal business reason, we'll at least be restrained but after consulting at the club, we'll determine whether or not we'll be against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84325	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSLS, the esteemed representative...... Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me, yes, yes. It's true. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84326	I thank you, Mr. President. Mr Sabati said the Committee should have discussed the candidates, that he should have had greater powers and that the failure to discuss all the candidates was a failure. The fact is that this House passed the Law on Croatia's news agency, so on HINA in 2001. It also ordered the Administrative Council to appoint and resolve the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, all that we could hear from the ranks of the SDP just before and now by you, it doesn't really stand. We here respect the procedure and respect the fact that the basis of the law is the Government that proposes the names of the members of the Governing Council and the basis of the public tender. Therefore, nothing here has been missed or should have been done more by the parent committee because it is not in accordance with the legal powers of the HINA Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84327	And a second correction by Honorable Representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84328	Thank you very much. He told Mr. Sabati that we had no opportunity to see about the other candidates. That's not true. Here it is, there it is, we've all got all 18 others who've also signed up with all the CVs, with everything that was needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84329	Club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84330	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, if we were to paraphrasise Mark, then we'd say there's nothing new in the Croatian Parliament. We actually have a feeling that we are constantly spinning in one circle and, by old practice, we justify bad practice even worse practice. And indeed in Parliament, we should always say the same thing no matter where we are. Whether we are in the position of the opposition or whether we are part of the ruling majority. But unfortunately, with us, these very discourses are changing in our position. Well, then something was right for us when we were part of the ruling structure. And now that this will of citizens is changing in the meantime and a different relationship is being structured in Parliament, then suddenly we notice that this practice has not been very democratic. And that's our fundamental problem that we can't make that... A moment's notice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can constantly here, some of us say that we shouldn't talk about it the same way no matter what situation we were in, and that some professionality, objectivity, independence is something that somehow I should belong to HINA. But in principle, we do this great, great, or we say it especially in the pre-election campaign, but when we get into a situation then we really act, we have double criteria. We all have this, none of us is a foreign talk of equality, of justice for everyone, but when we face reality then, real problems arise. Then on the one hand you have this confessional tone that it's very necessary, and on the other hand you have a morally less educational reality. And that's what happens. We're passing a law that was obviously totalitarian at the time, it wants to control something that shouldn't be controlled, and really that spirit, these little totalitarians who squat in each of us is something that we really need to worry about. And then, there we should be honest, if we weren't really great every time in this past. And if you weren't great in the past then it's very difficult, you can change the present and even less the future. Exactly if, only if you give up that need to control everything. I'm deeply convinced that we're actually overestimating the importance of HINA, or maybe even I'm wrong. Obviously, that's where he might be hiding because I don't see it right now. It is an informative service and would not, apart from the objectivity, then transfer exactly what is happening here in the government, in political life, in economic life, in the inner life, that it would simply, in some way, flowed, short information in which it would inform citizens. No, we want to control it, just by putting it, I don't know, what we share on ours and theirs. And then again when it comes in 2007 or I don't know in 2008, but when, then we'll have another practice again, and then we'll suddenly not know, change the furniture and say, "This one or this one's no good," so we'll bring another one. And we're actually constantly installing this element of uncertainty, uncertainty. And that's the constant of this and that bad constant of our policy. No matter who implements it, left, right, liberal, less liberal, etc. It's a constant. And as much as we're trying here and there are these documents, phonograms that will confirm that we're looking for a different behavior. That there is no need to control public television, that there is no need to control HINA, that there is no need to bring political life in Croatia to this scheme on the left and right, good and bad. Depending on how you look. That political life is richer. More diverse, more diverse. But we're doing it perfectly. And no wonder this ended like this. What went wrong with a lot of awkwardness a few months ago had to end that way. Murphy's law has come true. It has to be fulfilled. Which starts badly and can't end differently. And then I wondered why it was done like that. And for those four members then, I voted for two because I voted for the free conscience without party discipline, without the influence of a coalition partner for two, I felt that they were really fulfilling those again on my conscience, because yesterday I was also talking about it that the choice was always, the possibility of choosing, the freedom to choose is a curse. And so it was yesterday, and so it is today. It's not easy to decide,... What we say we don't know about these people is actually very little or almost nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How are they, by the way, how are the families? How do they treat animals, birds, flowers? What hobbies do they have? What interests do they have? But we have a CV that's always relatively decent. And then we can only about if it's something dramatic and then there's the mention of it in one... the context of a porter who hastily become a legal expert or veterinarian who hastily become an expert on the economy, and then, in some ways, a man must rebel because he does not find it very convincing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let me just say it would be right for these principles that we have very, very much, so to say that liberalism is very easily declared, but when it needs to be practiced, it is then really that morally less instructive really very easy to change our beliefs and then we defend and what is indefensible. What always, in fact, needs to be pawned, is, indeed, to be clear that the law, that the law is false. At least. That, in fact, the Parliament allowed itself here, we allowed ourselves to discuss what the government suggested that and then we discuss it. And nothing beyond that. So these 18 that have also appeared but have not been, have not been combined they have fallen off somewhere earlier that, if we are here, here we are, I will not claim that it is bad or not bad, but in some ways it is still putting Parliament in an inferior position. Let's discuss it in one narrowed down. And again I say I won't say anything about these candidates because it would be civil, at least civil incorrect, and I'm allowing myself this one again, and the club, so the club will also behave freedom, to vote on the free conscience. So we're not projecting anything in advance and there's no discipline, but obviously they are, and this is showing up... This is a more important question, and this is a question of whether it is really necessary to control everything, whether, indeed, we must show every time that there are little totalitarians in us and that we think that indeed, from something that needs to be an ordinary service that needs to be objective, independent, independent of the relationship between political forces both in Parliament, both in the Ban Courts or elsewhere, no, we are turning it into politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I am looking at my colleague Djapic, his successor in the City, we were trying to inaugurate in the city this very professional relationship that indeed the directors of public city enterprises, that political similarity does not matter...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84331	Don't tell me now, Goldie...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84332	That's very nice, that's very nice. No, no. I just want to say that such attempts in this country are where professionalism, political, that political similarities are not an important criterion but that we are really trying first to talk about expertise and competence and precisely the need to create such administrations that will really be able to withstand a few changes, change of government and that in no way will it build on people a necessary sense of uncertainty. ... There's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84333	Please don't invite your colleague Kramarić to the controversy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84334	And he, constantly earning They're distracting, distracting. [[No, no, you started.]] That's exactly why I keep saying it. We repeat this business is not well started, it is not well started not because not only for these reasons 2006, 2007 but because in the system, the law is built in really that element that enables me to say this kind of behavior and then in some way that we play with fates, people, to open up space for speculation and that in fact every choice is actually a scandal that is ultimately inadmissible, and that does not exactly contribute to the democratisation and normalisation of political and human relations in our society. In that sense, we will vote on our conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84335	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84336	Mr. President, Secretary of State and Assistant. My colleagues and colleagues. It is just once again to be pointed out and to say that the procedure has just been carried out in accordance with the provisions 11 and 12. The law on the Croatian news agency and on the basis of this, the Agency has an administrative council appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament, which is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's just that the proposed candidates are meeting all the conditions and there's no need to threaten, I'd say so mildly that there's going to be another scandal. The law has been passed. We will choose the candidates. They are professional, moral, and good people who will show everything they know about their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84337	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84338	Your Honor, Mr. President, I've seen one methodological problem here for a long time. So there are no stepson, some protocols, some rules for selecting the best candidates per this and that criterion. That's what I see as a fundamental problem. Another problem is that it is not really solved especially in such public functions. Some of the autonomous decisions of the parliamentary committees and others are decided on the basis of a proposal from the Government. I mean, when it comes to four elected candidates, it's civil rude and politically irresponsible to speak critically about them because we don't know very much about these people. So now maybe this is a moment to think a little bit about how people choose other people on different occasions? How do they choose candidates for brides, friends, workers, leaders? In all these cases, there are some procedures. They're either traditional and antique or the government can choose some kind of human-headed hunting agency. "Head hunting" agency. So what I'm missing are insufficiency procedures. In that sense, if you see, if you choose the centerform or back, then there are scouts following two, three years of such people. So you do health checks and then you run tests, so you talk to the coaches. If we want to do good or practice of good government, then in that sense we need to think prospectively. Protecting two groups of people, the people who responded to this contest, which is one of the few public calls to which 22 all the squads of prominent Croatian husbands and women appeared. I know some of them personally as excellent candidates. If it were up to me, you noticed that I asked several questions in a parliamentary hearing of constitutional judges to give my colleagues the opportunity to see what these people's valuable systems are. It was decided completely objectively without any conflict between the opposition or the opposition. When it comes to structures, I would personally prefer two women, two men. That someone from Istria, someone from Dalmatia, someone from Slavonia, someone from Croatian Zagorje was proposed. I'm saying what I'd like to do. I know some of these people that I consider brilliant candidates, Davor Boras, one of the leading informative, Daniel Boras, one of the leading information and information experts in Croatia, a man who specializes in transfers, intermedia transfers of old manuscripts to new media, perhaps the only one in Croatia. He is even a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Let's just say it's wrong for me that this man didn't come in. I know Nenada Prelog, he's from my generation, he's 16 years old, and he wrote a 600-page autobiography, and it bothered me at the time, but he's in HSS, he's our ambassador to Ireland, a wonderful man. He lives in the country now in some Dutchy. And it would be convenient to have a man like that. There is also Danko Plemnik, a prominent journalist of this or that valuable or any other information. He doctored as much as I know in information and library. So what we have to do today is two things. Not to discourage candidates who are excellent in their fields to appear by counting on a fair or fair selection procedure. An honest selection procedure is impossible. I assure you, I have worked in various selection projects within the United Nations based on résumés. Because there are people who write brilliant résumés. When you look at them, you'll eat them. When they sit in front of you, they're not as good as they say in their résumés. And a picture amongst other things. [[Intruder: They need to deliver the image.]] Let's just say at our postgraduate studies, he had pictures amongst other things. Therefore, I would suggest that this be a precedent, that the government be imposed as a practice in the future, and that I underline in the public call there are public obligations of the Government to explain to the parliamentary committee its choice, both in front of the House of Commons and in front of this House. That's the first thing. Another thing to do as a practice of assembly hearings. You will see that it gives people a chance to show a lot more than you expect them to. I've done very simple tests of leadership in my time. Let's just say I learned, I didn't make it up by an American psychologist so you could select leaders. Maybe some of these people don't have any leadership skills. It's a simple technique of selection. Let's say you have 22 candidates here, divide them into four groups and give them either some intellectual or some other puzzle, say they're building a tower of cards. In the first phase, there will be a big confusion. And at some point someone will take the lead, especially if they have a promised reward for it. Usually, such people who begin to command in the construction of ticket towers are chosen by the English for the workers, but could not possibly be Parliament's presidents. For that, they need other selection techniques passed by by our esteemed colleague. Anything else, I want to tell the government in this case has unfortunately failed the exam. She failed her exam because she did not say Marina Mucalo the highest perhaps in Croatia, a charming lady and a woman took a narrow choice. Why would that woman ever report to a public competition again? Why would my colleague Boras answer? Why else would anyone answer that? Not because people don't enjoy losing. There are some people who are masochists, they get beat up all the time in this High House, and they re-appear for replicas. But normal people don't like to be defeated if there's no firm arguments for it. So, I'd like to conclude that I'm a little sorry that my colleague Sabati didn't have all the résumés. He wanted to defend Nenad Toolog as a member of his party. But there was no insight into that file. But it's not the President's fault. It's him. He didn't see what was in the boxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84339	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84340	Thank you very much. Although this isn't exactly what this stands for, it wasn't in the boxes, it came half an hour before the debate on these constituency benches. ... Okay, but either way, if you're seriously preparing for this topic, talk about people, you need plenty of time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't know if you do, but everyone who deals with publishing for serious preparation and debate about people, these are living persons, Professor Prelog is my personal friend. My colleague Boras, my colleague Mucholo, they're all my college colleagues. Well, if we're talking about a fellow Plevinik. I know them personally, but most people don't know these people. And based on just a few hours available, you can't talk about people. Repeat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84341	Peace, please! Order! No! No!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84342	These 15 seconds, I hope I get a chance. But speaking of one Professor Prelog, Professor Mucalo, Professor Boras, I personally know them, and I'm sure they could be spoken of. But it takes more time for the others. So I'm just saying, it's hard to talk about people and not have enough time to prepare for such a serious debate. And my protest was precisely in that sense that we didn't have time to seriously prepare ourselves for the candidates before the debate. And the other thing is that the board didn't ultimately invite all these candidates to a hearing to talk to these people. And so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84343	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84344	If it wasn't for partying, that's what my colleague, Arabovic, also mentioned Gordan Grbić, who missed my sight. Indeed, she has now become a spokeswoman for the SDP. It wouldn't be good if by the age of ten, one of these four had become the spokespersons of the HSS or I didn't know who or maybe even the HDZ. In that sense, I support Professor Sabati's key thesis, because he's an old interrogator, not old, I'm sorry, you're much younger than me, but an experienced interrogator like his colleague Hebrang. Hebrang would never let someone like a cat in a bag pass his exam. Just like he has to now and... and vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So he's a loyal man, he'll support his own party. Of course you would support her, and I would if you had a party membership and a party mind. But I'm wild I can't agree to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84345	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84346	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a lot of fellow Letica and colleague Pero Kovacevic talking about how we don't have any criteria for this choice. And the fact is that when we get four candidates on the board, we get what the government has suggested. What was the government doing? Is that eye color, shoe number? We have no idea, because we didn't get that kind of explanation on the board. It was just said that these are candidates that we need or do not accept without any explanation by which criteria they were chosen. It is clear to me that you gentlemen both in the government and in the board and here have enough hands and that no matter what criteria were used, this proposal will pass. I believe me, I have nothing against it. I'm sure I've got nothing. In my debate, however, I kept pointing to the procedure. In this election, we have broken the procedure on several occasions, justifying that procedure in those time-limits, the law presses us, we have to do it. Now suddenly seven and a half months later, nothing pressured us anymore, and there was nothing more we needed to do in accordance with the law. The Parliament certainly did everything by procedure, but there's one thing I can't believe that you HDZ gentlemen can accept that four months ago you're talking or seven months ago for the first time, you're talking about some people who are great, beautiful, beautiful and best, the smartest, the most wonderful, and I don't know what else, when they choose the wrong director and when they have to go back now you're telling the same story about some others. It seems to me that simply the Government gives you the softest words of slaps, and you just have to clean it up nicely, and your showers, wipe out and confirm to yourself that here you change your mind the way someone orders you to. One other thing that bothers me here in Parliament all the time, transferring balls and responsibilities to those who either participated in power or were two or three mandates here in the Parliament and putting some responsibility to all of us for something that's been going on in the past. Gentlemen, as the government has passed, all other governments have passed as they have worked, I do not bear, and I do not wish to bear a crumb of responsibility. But for what we're doing right now, at least we're the new ones, the 96 new ones that we've been here for the first time in the Parliament, which I think we should make our contribution not to do so anymore. As they were previously named in HINA, I don't care, because I wasn't here to influence that appointment, but now I'm interested. First of all, I'm interested in respecting the legal procedure. Now in this election, in this part that, from the very beginning, however, colleagues have not been respected, for seven and a half months this saga is going on, that's when I called it the HDZ news agency, precisely because of the way the procedure was violated. Now it's all done by procedure, but there's one other thing. My colleague Matešić was then told that they were the best, now they're saying they're the best. I don't want to talk about any of them, not one of those before, and neither of these candidates now, say anything. Because what we got today, we got the board president's intervention and the board's demands to deliver to us résumés and others, but I don't want to talk about individuals, but I want to talk about the principle of where we've been weighing on one thing for 7.5 months. And I repeat, I know you have a sufficient number of hands, I know that all those who are proposed will pass, but it bothers me when we break the law and procedure. And for the first time, we said we were doing something about the law, canceled everything by working for the law, and now all of a sudden it's all legal. And then these candidates were the best, the most honest, and I don't know what they're not, and now they're the other ones. Well, gentlemen, please tell the government once, don't give us slaps.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84347	Thank you. At 1:00 p.m., it's time to report individual debates. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84348	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague did not say exactly when I quote he said that the government had no criteria and reasons to propose these candidates. On the board, the government's representative very well explained and laid down the criteria and said the government had done this, the choice on the basis of Article 12. The HINA law, he said, looked at the government's quality of experts. It's all about their biographies, so we can all check them out. He said they were celebrities, she said they were independent experts, extracurricular and for comparison with the previous council, they were never even politically engaged, which I think is particularly important. I'm also correcting an incorrect assumption that we're violating the law and procedure. That's not true. The government followed the HINA Act exactly, the board followed the HINA Act, and I'm sure this Parliament will, therefore, go according to the law and procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84349	Second correction, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84350	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, it refers to the same allegations that his colleague Hebrang said, but I will also correct it. It is not true that the legal procedure has been violated, it is not true that without any criteria the choice has been made and it is not true that this government slaps its proposals on the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, in 2001, your party colleagues passed a law that is the procedure that we respect today. So your colleagues from the HNS passed the law under which the Croatian Parliament resolves and appoints on the Croatian Government's proposal. So we only respect the law that was passed in 2001, so the provisions of that law. And as far as the criteria are concerned, it's clear to everyone, no one is saying that someone is the best or the most honest, we're just saying that the criteria were respected and that the people who are proposed have all the necessary professional criteria, meet all the necessary professional criteria and that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84351	And the third correction, honourable representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84352	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, so I will also correct the incorrect allegations made by Mr. Kapraljevic, that the government has implemented and brought candidates for this Council in the past of the law and without legal procedures. In fact, the government has acted according to all the legal standards, and it is the only thing that has not used the moral political resemblance that probably bothers you the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84353	Dear Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go. ... My mistake is terrible, I apologize, I repent and call you to replication. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84354	Thank you, Mr. President. ... For forgetting me, for having to warn you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, I don't understand Mr. Kapralevich. I really don't understand how he doesn't understand it. Look, this government thinks it's sinless. And they're convinced that they're sinless and because seven and a half months ago they made certain mistakes that they themselves admitted were mistakes, it was such a shock for this government that it took seven months, seven and a half months to come to their senses, and to propose entirely orderly suggestions and people they proposed today. And yet I'm convinced of something else. Behind all these decisions and those mistakes and behind this now orderly proposal stands Prime Minister Sanader for a simple reason. Because if it wasn't, he'd be pulling someone's ears like "Bechtel," like for tax, for HRT's fee. So someone would already pay and it wouldn't be such a shock. But since he's guilty of this, and apparently he's responsible for this, then it's quite clear that seven and a half months of shock was supposed to come to his senses and get his head cold. And I don't understand how you don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84355	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84356	I thank my colleague, Jakshi Marasovic, for explaining things to me. However, my colleague Marasovic was not at my first appearance when it was the first debate. That's when I said Mr. Sanader was slapping us in the Parliament. ... And he's just returning the ball to us for the mistake they made, eh, but there's one other thing. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Marasovicu, you're probably not familiar with the beginning of this story. Seven and a half months ago, there was a violation of the law here, even though fellow Hebrang said it wasn't, a violation of the law was justified that we had to bring the crumbs to the council. And we brought the Council where there were four members, where there were no fifth members. Then the Council disbanded, so we chose only one, we actually discussed one. And now we're gonna fix it and then the law breaks. And now the fact is, we've been following procedure. But after seven months, I thank my colleague Marasovic for telling me that it was Prime Minister Sanader's fault. It's his own fault. I'm sure it's his fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84357	Okay. Will you guys make a deal on who's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84358	Yes, we will. We're going down now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84359	Which one of you is guilty then? ... Dear Representative Antun Vujic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84360	I'd rather not say anything, but I have to because I've heard things. First, it would start with only one demention on which this is not based, which is the mention of Mrs. Gordana Grbić as if she were the director of HINA at the very least. She was a journalist there, there are various from both these and those political structures, etc. But the fact that she was like I think a lot of others and all those from different parties, etc., which are normally pluralistic there. They do one of their responsible jobs through a time when HINA recorded the first stabilization and then prosperity. And HINA is if you remember well from actually an agency that's run on very unstable foundations with several difficult, wrong original solutions related to leadership, everything stabilized I think in the last period. The previous government passed the law and this government confirmed the HINA contracts and is on a good path. It can be on a good path if it will be provided with appropriate bodies that will stand behind it and which will in some way enable it to start from, to say political pluralism within HINA itself, which is not a condition for uniqueness to say professional, journalistic work. What's better goes forward and what's bad to be selected. What I would particularly point out and what actually is and where I chose to say it in some way personally either in this individual discussion is next. That I feel somewhat guilty about one element of this HINA Act. If you remember from 2001 it started and continued until the end one very, very strong pressure to which the Government was exposed and this one will be and was also previous, different to say by wise men who suggested different and any solutions to the position of regulatory bodies within Croatia for how to situation the media, this, that, etc. And we realized then that as it is important that the Croatian Parliament has some contact with HRT, for example, and that it was also required not to be at all, but that there be an automated choice from civil society to address the issues of the regulatory body, so we put in a way that... as we put it, so we also thought, for the best of all, that what the government can do, let the government solve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let the government rule. But what I'm saying is, if someone sets up a policy concept behind the spectrum of some historical and political optimism, they can never predict what can happen in different concepts of what the government is supposed to do? The simplest procedure is if it is the Council for Electronic Media, if it is the HINA Council, that the Government proposes the body that will protect it in terms of the public, its independence, so that it can contribute most to that society for which it exists. No one could remember when we were defending the authority of this state, of this Parliament and of these governments, from which ideas as to how these regulatory bodies are formulated, so that it might happen that we would discuss such sensitive issues as the election of the HINA Council, and in the right line and the choice of the Electronic Media Council, that it would not go to what is normally going on in many other things, the elemental consensus or the agreement that would include some criteria. There's no law that can predict you coming to work. He can prescribe that you start working from 7 a.m., but he can't tell you to get up at 6 a.m. to get to work at 7:00. Therefore, any law can be implemented and unfortunately, this also happens with those things that should have been strategic places of consensus of the main political factors in this country to develop fully protected, with regulatory bodies that would have the highest authority and the greatest possibilities to make them so. I won't say anything new. There's been so much talk here, but I think it's a simple fact. Let's not judge anything at all. It's just the fact that until the other day, we had one Council and we claimed it was best and now we're setting it without the same criteria, and we're still saying that it's best to say that something's wrong. So let it come to everyone's mind whether he's in opposition or in power. This isn't good. We already have if we have anything as observations in this entire Corps of Media and so on in harmonising that's two observations and it concerns both times two pressures. It's a once-on-a-lifetime pressure on the HRT Council. The second time it is the pressure or the way of the election without so saying the consent that would be logical to expect in this place the HINA Council. What do we do now? And for the third time, we'll do it. And permanently grinding the earth unnecessaryly on topics that didn't deserve to be told by others what would be wise for us instead of us fighting for it. That we fight for you and you for us that this HINA may be independent of you and of us, so that it may serve you and us both. To represent as a regulatory body, as an agency a single public background, a public background on which a democratic process in Croatia can operate. Because without it, it can't work. There are only two public matters left for us when it comes to the media in this country. We've got public television as it is, but at least that's what's left of it, and it's HINA. It's all private. Everything else is privately included in the arrangements. It's an integral part of the political process. It's an integral part of what's happening today. If this Parliament does not have the maturity to see it and if this government has no responsibility to consider a future in which it will not be the Government, then we return to the chain of opening changes, additions, permanent new laws and so on. I have to warn everyone who's going to be replicating me eventually. The last HINA Council could have been elected in the term of office of the last government. Somewhere three months before the end of that term, it could have been set up because the law allowed it. It wasn't thought to be that important. It's left to the new government to solve. Maybe naively, it seems naive to me now, and maybe I feel guilty because it didn't feel like this could be the object of this kind of quantum stumbling that really wouldn't be looking for the presidents of the Constitutional Court who could have been in the first one. That university professors who have public authority won't be asked for. That you won't be looking for media experts who have it. That members of some relevant organisations such as one of the candidates among others Croatian Transparency International will not be sought. No, I'll think about it. I'm sorry to say it. It's not the second term that comes to mind, it's the chickening. Well, I don't know if it's supposed to allow this Parliament and every single person's responsibility in it. I'm not calling any party here. I answered as an individual to say this. I volunteered as an individual, among other things, feeling a little playful which is an optimistic belief that the government can propose such bodies in the House so miserablely ended up in mistrust with the government because we felt that the government was ours or yours could have the responsibility to really try to propose adequate solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84361	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84362	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm afraid, here I am reporting for the correction of an incorrect quote but I'm afraid to speak because there is a wartime friend here who two days ago was so uncontrollably arlaucal that I was afraid. And now I'm afraid and I'm giving up correcting an incorrect quote to keep my head alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84363	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84364	I apologize, my colleague Vujic rightly called for consensus and continuity when it comes to this debate, but I would point out that historical heritage also speaks of some negativity in terms of both continuity and consensus. I was just watching a show yesterday about Fidel Catr. He had both concentration and continuity in terms of his rule. He also had transformations. At first, he was a Democrats, so he moved on to another religion. But mostly that concentration and continuity should not be taken as healthy for granted. There's also that deviation that can be found in everything bad if it's searched and it can't be found well if it doesn't want to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84365	And for correcting the quote of MP Vujic. ... -Catroa. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang, the correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84366	Thank you very much. My colleague Vujic said he was chickening. And I tell him it's not true, but it's the pigs' but not with this Governing Council, but with the last one because it's the Administrative Council that approved the reception of 33 journalists without a public competition of individual selection and human resources. So it's not true what you said. The term is entirely guilty, and the Administrative Council is wrong. He also said, "The past Council was the best this government has proposed, this Council is the best." It is also not true. That's been the best thing since the proposed candidates. This is the best from now on proposed candidates. So you're chasing pears and apples. And the second, third incorrect allegation is that HINA recorded stabilisation. She destabilized us because she falsified our latest report on the latest report of the Governing Council of HINA because she didn't answer us at all why she received journalists without a public competition, and it's a public house, not a private one. Because she didn't answer us why she was doing human cleaning?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84367	Replica Honored Representative Franjo Arabović [[Intruder: It was a public house.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84368	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to replicate to Mr. Vujic when he spoke, and I apologize to Gordana Grbic was a candidate from your president, Mr. Racan, and she failed to pass because of a fight in the coalition. So in the end, it was a gray eminence. She did everything and didn't just have that title. Let's get rid of it. And when you were talking about chickening, now I'm gonna tell you what I think of chickening? Mr. Journalist Danko Plevnik writes nicely in his letter: "I didn't want to run. I didn't want to maybe win or lose. I was being processed by Sanja Pucak, senior correspondent of HINA from Washington. I categorically refused. Afterwards he called me Dragutin Lučić-Luce, the president of the Croatian Journalist Society and, behold, miracles and team and journalist HINA, telling me that they need me." So we have some more chickens now. So he needs them to send me all the parameters and that he's on a council committee with a large number of like-minded people. And I'm telling you, none of us seven on the board are his contemporaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84369	Thank you. Replica response, Honored Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84370	I thank you for your opportunity to answer. So I'm gonna use it to say something from earlier. 30 people who were admitted to HINA, we heard that today. It was received by order of inspection because they were for a certain time, as it is said, for a certain period of time and should have been reported indefinitely. And it's supposed to be done tomorrow on television in many cases, but this other one. I don't know what you find so terrible about someone talking about a fellow Plevinik. I didn't mention him at all or concern me with my colleague... Nor could anyone have promised him anything about the board, for the board does not vote on who is to be admitted and who is not to be accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is a fact that in the way of choice aside from the influential and prominent people who represent us and in their profession and elsewhere relevant people who could be proud of any government that they have to be decorated in this way. And I'm also going to tell you openly now but I'm not going to tell the person who's because of it, maybe you'd let me say that, ask one person give God you want to pick up, so that's where it needs to be more serious. Well, that doesn't mean I chose him. We should encourage people today to accept these things because people will not. People won't because they're played, because they're not sure they'll be well-intentioned at all, because they don't need it. So this is a public job where their victim is sought. This is where he should be. That guy didn't answer. Here, because he told me, I won't answer, I mean, I'm not crazy to answer that kind of thing. And otherwise, it would be interesting if we had one. How we don't want to understand I mean the meaning of this thing that we can work together here on the quality of the organizations of what we have left in the media in this country. Let's not pollemize without a clue. This isn't at all. This isn't a problem at all. The problem is we don't pick the ones we can watch our backs. That's the problem. ... And yours and ours. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-16-0.u84371	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15.00 hours with a vote on the part of the debated points. 15.00 hours. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, sure. Thank you very much. And we still have a proposal to appoint members of the board of directors of HINA. First, I am voting on the proposal to appoint Vladimir Lulic as a member of the Governing Council of HINA. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 86 votes for, 10 abstentions and 6 against, Vladimir Lulic was appointed a member of the HINA Steering Council.
