ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83634	Dear Mr. President, the Croatian party of rights club, given the latest tightening of Croatia's relations with Italy and Labin's heavy words spoken on both sides, requires the Croatian government to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on relations with Italy to discuss this in the Croatian Parliament. We also believe that the current situation of relations between Croatia and Italy can be derived from the current situation by adopting a joint declaration of condemnation of crime in history such as '97. made by the Czech Republic and Germany. Therefore, please take measures to discuss this point in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83635	Okay. You made a suggestion. I'll report it to the government. And I suggest that, in writing too, you propose this proposal to include this agenda item in the agenda. In accordance with Article 9. The Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures has been submitted by the State Commission. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Finance and the State Budget, the Economy, Development and Reconstruction, local and regional self-government. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. State Commission President Goran Matesic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83636	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. Here, I present to you the State Commission's report on the control of public procurement procedures. The State Commission is an independent and independent state body, which has strict jurisdiction governed by law, which is an appeal procedure in public procurement. In this function of independence and decision-making, it reminds the court. This Work Report refers to the year 2005 when the State Commission sat in 6 rooms of the Ministry of Finance, which is why the system suffered criticism because it did not manifest independence. This is the second year of the institution's work, which, due to these restrictions, could not be extended either by human or to a greater extent. However, regardless of this, the year in which the ambitious CARDS tweeting project was launched is a 600,000-euro State Commission capacity building project, which was completed in the following year, with the praise of the head of the European Commission delegation in Zagreb. In such circumstances, despite such conditions, the State Commission decided within the legal deadlines and also shortened the time for decision-making, worked significantly on the interpretation of the Public Procurement Act, the formation and development of the legal scratch, which is very important for the application of this law. What this report is different from the previous one is, I mean its higher technical quality, more data, and data and statistics are a prerequisite for knowing the appearance and possibility of system correction. I'd just like to draw attention from this report to some specific points. Only 7.8% of the published procurement procedures go to appeal proceedings. And of the total number of complaints made, 48% were adopted and then the selection decision or the whole procurement process was annulled. There are few complaints made, and a large number of cancellations are in the public procurement process. These data need to be carefully drawn from the conclusion, bearing in mind that the appeal procedure is not the only security mechanism in public procurement, that these are both records and monitoring of procedures and supervision, both legal and budgetary surveillance. The second thing I would like to draw attention to is these 7.8% of the procedures being controlled before the State Commission, so of the total public procurement published, 7.8% goes into appeal. And this question opens up this data raises the question of the so-called question. dark areas of legal protection in public procurement. It concerns 4 areas where legal protection either does not have or is significantly constrained. These are cases of exclusion of the application of laws or exemptions, cases of unlawful distribution of the value of the items of procurement in such a way as to avoid the application of the relevant rules, cases of major infringement of the Public Procurement Act, which are called direct contracts without the application of the law and illegal annexation of already signed contracts. In none of these cases, there is almost no possibility of legal protection being declared. These phenomena are also fought by European legislation and almost all European Union countries. The assessment that public procurement should become simpler and faster expensive for simple goods, works and services, and that more complex procedures to provide better instruments and tools support the data contained in this report on the duration of the procedure. The sample observed shows that the procurement process lasts 110 days from the time of the selection decision, so the establishment of the expert commission and the decision to choose to refer to the objector shall be declared within a short period of 3 days, which shall take 26 days, totalling 136 days or 5 months. The procurement process lasts for 5 months, which in any case indicates problems with the organisation of public procurement functions, necessity, and the consequence of uneconomy. The procedure before the State Commission takes an average of 40 days, of which 15 days for decision-making, and 25 for obtaining documentation from the contracting authorities. The fact that 14% of complaints made are rejected speaks about the lack of education of the complainant on legal protection proceedings. In 2005, the total value of the items controlled by the state commission was 5 billion 857 million. And this year, I would like to point out the inability to grant a legal request to show up in the report information about the most common violations of the law. Namely, the State Commission does not have statistical data on the number of total proceedings carried out, which should be put in proportion to the number of complaints made and the percentage of success in the complaints made, and only then would we have the information of the most frequent offenders. Instead, we have put the ratio of the data that we possess, which is the number of complaints made and the number of complaints cancelled so that practically this table you have in the report should be called the representation of the applicant's success towards the individual contracting authorities. The most valuable part of the report I personally hold is a descriptive assessment of the state of supply based on the emipire, experience and from the corners of the state commission. It consists of an assessment of the state of play in public procurement at all, including the legislative framework, the institutional framework and everything else that falls within the legal practice and literature and the assessment of the situation in the area of legal protection. Dear MPs and MPs, I suggest you adopt this report on the basis of the debate and I am prepared to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83637	Thank you. The committees? Finance and the state budget? Economy, development and reconstruction? Local and regional self-government? No, I don't. Does the government want a representative? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83638	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Commission, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club has no significant objections to the work of the state commission, as it has resolved over 93% of the cases received in the year, but we draw attention to the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is required to deliver such a report by the end of the first quarter of the year for the previous year. In this way, we will have current indicators and can have a better impact on the future work of the Commission. The report of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, which began with its work in November 2003, established as a central, independent and independent body of the State Administration in which the conduct of the appeal procedure against decisions taken in public procurement procedures for the whole country is of quality with analyses of the number of cases received, the number of cases resolved, rejected, rejected, established complaints, the number of public procurement procedures invalidated, the number of outstanding cases, the list of contracting entities which most frequently violate the legal provisions in the procurement procedure, etc. According to 2005 data, 9,000 586 cases of public procurement were published, with 746 complaints or 7.8% indicating that there were no significant violations of the rules in the public procurement procedure. Out of the total number of complaints resolved in 2005, a large percentage of complaints rejected by 14.83% is visible, which means that the complainants are not sufficiently trained in legal protection procedures, as the complaint is generally dismissed in cases of unlawful declaration of appeal, indemnity, inadequacy, etc. We just think that better education of the public and private sector on the percentages of public procurement will make a significant contribution to reducing the procurement process without public competition and reducing corruption in the procurement process. It is also necessary to change public perception of public procurement, raise the concept of public procurement to one higher level and break the usual connection of public procurement to corruption. The implementation of the procurement procedure must become a daily practice, the usual practice of selecting the most favourable supplier of goods and contractors. Public and private sectors must become aware of the fact that a proper and legally implemented procurement process will enable them to choose the most favourable supplier, but also to provide full legal protection. At the same time, strengthening and mass acceptance of public procurement legal procedures will become the strongest weapon in the fight against public procurement corruption. In 2005, the State Commission signed a contract providing funds to improve the quality of work and the development of the institutional legal protection system. This European Union CARDS project in 2003 requires compliance with European Union legislation, but requires the implementation of commitments undertaken and the fulfilment of all working conditions and strengthening of public procurement institutions. It is known that certain spatial and personnel problems have already been solved in 2006, and thus it is possible to fully personnel and equip the state commission for its full and quality work. But we believe that we will soon be more familiar with the report on the work of the State Commission for 2006. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club considers that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, therefore an independent institution that judges on the legality of the public procurement procedure for the application and the results of its work, means strengthening the rule of law and sanctioning illegal practices. Transparency of the legal protection process, the creation of legal practice and interpretation of the rules is part of the overall anti-corruption effect to which the work of the State Commission contributes. After considering the overall report, the Croatian Democratic Community Club proposes that the State Commission's report on the work to control the public procurement process for 2005 be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83639	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83640	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague who says that the fact that only 746 complaints or 7.78% of public procurement procedures have been filed is that the procedure has been legally done. It doesn't mean that most people don't complain about the facts, because if they complain ever again as a public procurement participant, they won't get a job. The procedure takes a long time and there is no confidence in the public procurement system itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83641	SDP club, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83642	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Commission, colleagues and fellow MPs. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, this report has no practical value for the Assembly or for us MPs regarding the control of the legal spending of public money on Croatian citizens. However, the report treats what we should control, but for 2005, and this House has already adopted budget reports for that year long ago, and we forgot what the audit reports sound like. The true report is also more relevant for 2005 than the reports we have had so far, and it really reveals the problem of public procurement through trends and changes in the law, that is, how the amended law applies. Statistically compared to the year before, therefore, there was a slight decline in the appeal cases in 2004 but this is due to an increase in the procurement of the contract, which is evident from the trend of increasing the case in the first quarter and the second increase in the procurement procedures according to the new budget. The report shows that the largest number of appeal cases and the number of cancellations are linked to state-owned companies, state-run budget users, and therefore it is concluded that the violation of the Public Procurement Act is linked to the impact of politicians and political powers in favouring interested groups, mostly in the field of energy, transport and municipal activities. There is a rise in complaints adopted, noting that only one-fifth of complaints were rejected as unfounded where the public procurement procedure was fully implemented in accordance with the law. In other words, four-fifths of complaints have been adopted and justified or otherwise means that the procurement process has been illegal since the beginning. However, it is now important to highlight the important new environment. In fact, this government adopted the proposal in 1 October 2005, and the majority adopted amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act and introduced two articles that regulate so-called "the Croatian legal system". Contracting procurement in public procurement. In other words, or best to quote the contracting authorities using the direct contract procedure in the negotiation procedure without publication of the invitation to tender shall be obliged to publish at least 15 days before the conclusion of the contract in the "National Journal" the decision on the selection of the offer of the tenderer and to indicate the information on the subject of the procurement of the legal basis referred to in Article 12 of this Act and the provisions of the article not applicable in the case of a direct contract with a view to the speedy prevention of the occurrence or elimination of the consequences of the damage caused by force majeure or other dangers. It is also important to indicate the indent of Article 3 of the 13th Amendment to this Act. I'll tell you later why. If, due to the exceptional urgency caused by the events that the client could not foresee, the deadline for competition with the publication of the call for competition could not be applied, the reason for the occurrence of exceptional urgency must in no case be caused by the handling of the contracting authority. Before I quote examples of such purchases in these two articles, I guess I should say that the Public Procurement Act may be the strongest legal tool to combat corruption, and here's an example. First example and immediately to point out that the signed application gave me both examples and verified their truthfulness. Namely, in the 12th month of 2006, 13.12. The Croatian Railways, under the number and date of 13.12.2006, is the legal basis of Article 12, so the one quoted by the amended project, which is of paramount importance for the contracting authority in the public tendering procedure in order to extend the procurement procedure to a minimum of 90 days, provided that no legal medicinal products have been lodged after the public competition, has decided on a direct contract. So the reason was a rush that was not caused by anything and the client couldn't know. The price of jobs is 498 million kuna or half a billion. A direct contract has been concluded, but watch now absurd business has to be completed within 42 months. If this endures the logic of the law, this certainly does not suffer the logic of public procurement and public procurement control. I must say, of course, that each of us would like our companies to succeed in public procurement procedures, in competitions, to show their ability and competitiveness, but not to the detriment of the legal and fair spending of Croatian money, the money of Croatian citizens. The second example is the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, the stock company, the number and date again in 22.12.2006, so before Christmas, before New Year's Eve. Legal basis again Article 12. The object of the supply of electrical transport equipment for the Great Gložac tunnel, 7.72 kilometers long. Price agreed 41 million 800,000 kuna. What's the catch? This is where the competition was held, so I got a signed application. Two companies, one outward bid took out 30 million kunas, our company submitted 40 million kunas, but look at the wonders. The contest cancels, and then a contract with our company is concluded for 2 million kuna circuses more than she asked herself to do the job. The conclusion here is very clear by the logic of things. These are the two articles, which also warned the president of the State Commission that they were without control both the State Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But look at the miracles, neither the Parliament can do anything about it, and we are responsible to the citizens for controlling the spending of Croatian money on Croatian citizens, public money. It should also be said that the observation of concrete entrepreneurs is again. Here, counterpart Kovacevic said it, that those who complain about the public procurement process or sue, are quietly suggested to them, do not file charges. The biggest entrepreneur is state and state-owned enterprises. That way you'll cut yourself a branch in some future business. Such an approach is definitely not suitable for the competition and legitimate business. Finally, it is necessary to give a real recognition to the State Commission regarding the report itself, while objecting that indeed the Report must come together with the State Budget Implementation Report and the audit report for that year. The Assembly can then carry out its constitutional tasks in the control of the procedures or spending of public money and control of the administration. And another important piece of information. The procedure before the State Commission was cca. Six billion kunas saddened. If the correct information is that only 1/5 of the lawsuits were dropped and 4/5 of the lawsuits were passed, in other words, it means that nearly 5 billion kunas were taken in public procurement in an illegal manner. In addition to such assessments, it should undoubtedly be established that the provision of Article 13 and Article 12 of the amendment and addition of the Public Procurement Act has prompted all those who do not have a good intention of spending public money to comply with those provisions. This means, in other words, that the Croatian Parliament has the opportunity to request that the provisions of Articles 12 and 13, be analysed and that the Government therefore proposes new measures in order to be able to control money rather than abuse the provisions of Articles 12 and 13. Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. As for the report itself, it should also be mentioned that 64 or 65% is cca. requests or complaints for use, non-compliance or the principle or the basic element of the lowest price in public procurement. In other words, rationality in the use of state money in this data was indeed questionable. All this suggests that it is very good to see that the report is stimulating, but it practically has no value whatsoever. Nevertheless, the SDP club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83643	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83644	Your Honor, Mr. President! It's an incorrect assumption that over five billion kunas have been unlawfully spent. It's just not true. But it's something else. That at the time of your government, I was asked to answer the question of how the international tender for the purchase of fire trucks was annulled 603 million, the offer of Croatian firms was rejected and the job was given to an foreign company past the invitation to tender at the closed session of the then government. Well, then we must make sure that this report speaks absolutely of the progress of public procurement and competitions in the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83645	HNS representative club, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83646	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is a very important body that should introduce a little more order in this very important segment of the work of the State Administration, but of course it is only one of the bodies that influences this process. Therefore, it cannot be expected to solve all the issues and all the problems that exist in that segment. We have warned earlier that this Commission has had difficulties with teaming since its establishment and this is seen from this Report. This report is for 2005. It is a pity that this report has not been discussed in the Croatian Parliament before. It was sent to the Croatian Parliament quite late, even though it was only 15 December and 14 November 2006. But already and then, it can be seen that in 2005, only 15 employees of this Commission were employed in 2005. Therefore, such an important body as this Commission should have been very spotlessly teamed up with regard to a space which the Commission did not have for a time and with regard to the number of employees. What's this promenade behind me? Therefore, the Commission did not regularly spend the funds provided for in the budget for its work. Then the rebalances of all these years, for the last few years I have been monitoring the work of this Commission, would be to reduce the estimated budget costs for the Commission's work, and then it would not be spent either. This Commission is an important body that we can afford to do so, and it is therefore no wonder that neither the European Commission nor the World Bank are objecting to the lack of teamwork of this Commission, although there is no need to spend money on something, then this is the Commission. I am pleased, of course, that we have finally been given the opportunity to complete and team the work of this Commission through the CARDS programme, but we really shouldn't have waited for the CARDS program. This Commission is so important that at the same time that we were established there, we should make sure that it gets the right conditions for work and, of course, with regard to the number of employees envisaged, that the Commission is teamed up. The objections raised by the European Commission and the World Bank for procurement procedures in the Republic of Croatia as a major source of corruption or possible corruption in the country are not only relevant to these Commissions. They also concern the Public Procurement Office, as the Government's body, which has also not had adequate working conditions in all these years, so that these two bodies, one as the Government's body, the Public Procurement Office and the other, as a state commission in fact for the past 3.4 years since they were established, have not had the right opportunity to act. And that's something that's absolutely not commendable and that we can't be proud of as a state. This commission also speaks of what are the general difficulties in public procurement. Well, of course, it also speaks of how the most drastic form of illegality is in public procurement procedures when public procurement is not published. This does not go into the work of this Commission at all. Because this Commission only acts on official duty. Therefore, he cannot interfere in such matters. We know that there are in Croatia and that the Commission warns public procurements that have been deliberately broken down below 200,000 kunas in order to then be able to carry out more appropriate public procurement procedures which are open, recorded crime but, of course, this report does not write it, but the Commission is giving a general review of the situation in the public procurement process warning of this possibility. Or that practice. It's a job to deal with some other bodies, state audits, the Ministry of the Interior and so on. It is said here that the Law on Public Procurement, which was adopted on 1 October 2005, enabled direct settlement without public calls, is published, and that means possible and possible appeal or reaction of those who are unhappy with the final decision. This decision, which was made by amending the Act on 1 October 2005, is a harmful decision, and the decision first time should be amended because if someone is not able to plan the purchases in the segment for which he is responsible, then it does not need to be made possible by direct negotiation, and publication of final results only. He needs to be punished, not let him do it. Otherwise, as far as the work of this Commission is concerned, there is no comment on who is responsible for the annulment of these public procurements. When some public procurement is cancelled, it means that some public work that was planned has not been done. All that, if there were no other illegality in it, violations of regulations or possible corruption would already be problematic behaviour. If one of the purchases planned has failed to achieve its goal, some of the jobs planned in some segments will not be possible and someone should be responsible for it because it is not well enough and early enough to plan or set up a public tender. Not to say that someone should be held accountable when public procurement procedures establish evidence of illegality and cancelled public procurement often refer to purely open-minded conduct. There's not a word about it here in either one of them. It is neither the commission's task, but it would be good to have with such reports some information about what ultimately, except for court proceedings before the Administrative Court, was in these institutions in which public procurement was annulled. Did a minister, a head of state institution, answer? I'm just going to list here the most recent examples of public procurement cancellations. So City of Koprivnica, public procurement of 45 million kuna, Croatia insurance 12 million kuna, City of Zagreb 39 million kuna, Clinical Hospital Osijek 49 million kuna, University of Split 12 million kuna, City of Zagreb 19 million kuna and so on. Did anyone in these institutions in the town of Koprivnica, Croatia's insurance, in the City of Zagreb, at the University of Split bear responsibility for that? And even when there was no violation of the law, especially an accidental violation of the law. And when nothing points to possible corruption, those people who have carried out such public procurement are responsible for the fact that these public procurements have not been made. And here, of course, there's no point in this report. Here, except for these general markings, it's about the Public Procurement Act. Public procurement law, which is a key law. Which has been over all these 15 years or 10 years since there has never been a complete sublegal regulation provided for by that law. The earlier Public Procurement Act we had predicted a catalogue of public procurement. A Bible of public procurement that speaks of how certain public procurement is to be carried out. At least that's what the previous law said, this country didn't get a catalogue of public procurement. The Commission's report says that under the current current current public procurement law, there are the same problems and that sublaws have not been passed. If there are no sublaws, then neither public procurement can be implemented as provided. Therefore, empty spaces remain, and then, of course, it is possible to interpret in various ways how public procurement is carried out. Infringement of regulations, suitability or intentional corrupt actions of those who conduct public procurement on either side. It also says that municipal projects of great importance have been implemented illegally. After such a report by this Commission, something should certainly be done and, of course, you should see what is the responsibility of those who have made such public procurements even possible in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, it is not crucial that the European Commission and the World Bank warn us about this but that it is crucial that taxpayers' money, the money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in this way we spend it properly, in the wrong way. And that is what it is, which should be our primary interest, not just to bring our regulations in line with European Union legislation or to act on the complaints of the European Commission or the World Bank. I will give two examples that have made it possible or an example of how it is handled easily in public procurement. One example is the contracting of work for the construction of the Vučevica knot in 2004-2005, which was conducted by a public, direct contract without a public tender of total value somewhere around 70 million kuna. In response to the parliamentary question, the Government of the Republic of Croatia writes that the Vučevica node will get its full meaning when access roads are made towards Split, according to Solin, towards Kaštel. And this public, this competition, that is, the job is contracted by direct contract because of urgency. So all this talk about is that there was absolutely no need for any direct negotiation of any urgency there was but business with a single company with a Zagreb viaductor amounting to 70 million kuna by direct contract. A display of the number of traffic on that node Vučevica Autocesti Split – Sibenik shows that it is the knot with the smallest traffic on the entire Zagreb – Split highway. There are almost twice as many exits and car entrys on average on that knot per day than on the first next node on the Zagreb – Split highway, which is the Perusic node, i.e. Vrpolje knot. Therefore, there was no reason to conclude this business by means of a direct contract. There was no rush. Because the access roads to the south, towards the Kaštels and towards Solin, have not yet begun to build today. And the second example I want, of course, is the direct responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If this is how the Government of the Republic of Croatia behaves, what can we expect from some other institutions that are less exposed to the public and a little less logically, things should be taken care of because it is not their exclusive responsibility for public procurement procedures. And the second case I'm going to mention here is the case of getting a truck at the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia when, after a public, public tender and a selected offer that is more expensive for 2m euros than the first one, and that the public has never received an answer as to why it was done. If this is the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, what can we expect from other entities that are not directly responsible for the conduct of public procurement procedures in general speaking. So these are the questions I'm asking here on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Representatives Club. This report is a useful report. It points to the difficulties that exist in public procurement, and it shows that these difficulties are not minor. But because it points to these difficulties along with the legal constraints that the commission has in its work, the HNS's Club of Representatives will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83647	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83648	Thank you very much. Here's a series of questions I can answer one thing. A colleague, Radoš, says, quotes: "This commission has a problem with human teaming and should have intervened urgently.". This government intervened in July 2005 because the commission was placed under inappropriately small conditions and could not team up, had no physical space to work. The government just intervened, gave a new space, the number of employees doubled from 15 to 26, or 27. And that's why the Commission could solve 93 whole and somewhat of all complaints. So she's teamed up and she's doing well on that data.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83649	And another correction, the respected representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83650	A respected colleague, Rados, said that the trucks for the Ministry of Defense were not obtained under the law. That's not true. Trucks for the Ministry of Defence were obtained under the law and were given an explanation from the ministry, and the president of the Republic was also shown to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83651	Thank you. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83652	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, President of the State Commission. According to the Croatian Party's position, public procurement rights should be based on the principle of transparency, openness and accessibility. In accordance with these principles, protection of public interest would be ensured by the effective use of taxpayers' funds, and free competition would be ensured on the one hand. Is our law on public procurement, does our law on public procurement meet these fundamental principles? It's not satisfying, and it's also visible from the State Commission report. And that is why it is necessary to pass the new Public Procurement Act, and what I say is the report and indicates. The report shows that two of the largest entities in the country, which are ordering purchases, are the state and the City of Zagreb in many public procurement procedures, are being treated in machehish according to the means of taxpayers, and "hametics" are spending these funds without adequate sanctions. What special attention should be paid to this report? First of all, why a little complaint? First, the complaint is too little in public procurement procedures and because nothing happens to the answers after the State Competition Commission finds that there has been a breach of the legality of public procurement. A good example for this case is the restoration of Hotel Dalmatia in Makarska, the companies Hotels Makarska d.d. The public competition has been annulled by the state commission. They acted as if nothing had happened, yet they realized everything. There's no way of knowing if there's even been a misapplication. Thus, in this case, we see how solutions to sanctions that are essentially not available in the Public Procurement Act allow for such a situation. So the Commission acts legally, annuls the solution, they do not adhere to the solutions they work on the old ones. Also, why a little complaint? We saw for ourselves that in 2005, there were 9,000 586 public procurement procedures, with only 746 complaints or 7.78% compared to the total number. So because of the fact that everyone who participates in public procurement says simply listen, if you complain, you can count on never getting a job on any public procurement from us ever again. It is also a problem to say on behalf of the Croatian Party club that there are no appropriate sanctions in cases where the State Commission finds that there has been an ecultane violation of the procurement procedure. The public procurement process itself is also a long-term process to be pointed out, as the President of the Commission said. Namely, the duration of the procurement procedure from the time of selection of the offer is 110 days. And now you take the users of the budget, so those who don't start the procurement process, given the kind of law we have in the first six months of the current year won't be able to implement the project at all, given that we know the situation in the budget. The funds are provided in one year, they can only be realised in that year. Therefore, that fact also speaks of the long-term procedure and that the procedure as such since there is no possibility of sanctioning is at the same time a source of corruption. So, since we do not have a law that will also satisfy the fundamental principles on which public procurement should be rested, which is the principle of transparency, the principle of openness and the principle of accessibility, there are automatically doubts, and what is already visible from the Report, that this is one of the forms if we do not have such a law, from forms of corruption and various other machinations. What else is there to say about this report? That the state needs to be made manifest, organised differently in large public procurements, and this way that someone does so on behalf of the state, so that the whole process would be reduced far away. On the other hand, it is likely that in such and similar situations, if the purchase is large, up to one 20% to 30% of the funds could be saved when it is fragmented, when each body or state administration or companies owned by the State goes independently in the public procurement process. Also, the following problems are visible from the report. The biggest problem is that there is no proper and legal solution, and that is the problem of illegal depreciation of public procurement. In fact, the case where public procurement is worth a lot but in order to avoid the public procurement process itself, the value is tiny and then goes to those variants of a variety of direct contracts and thus there is double damage, there is no control over these funds being spent. Other participants are excluded from the procurement process, and it is certain that a far greater amount of money is being spent on these purchases or goods or services, already depends on what it is, than should be spent. Furthermore, the big problem with public procurement in Croatia is also the so-called They relate to the exclusion from the application of the Public Procurement Act. In particular, this applies in cases where such procurement is declared secret. And there's that old problem about keeping secrets, so we're putting a variety of situations that shouldn't and shouldn't be classified like that, we're putting them in a level of secrecy. It's like getting clothes for members of the Ministry of the Interior, which we had or for members of the Armed Forces or other things. Although it is publicly known that these data are being exchanged at European Union and NATO level. Therefore, in all such and similar situations, there is no room for such procurement to be classified as a secret procurement because it is classified data. And that way, it also violates the public procurement process itself. And there is no possibility that the State Commission can react in such or similar situations. It's also a particular problem in all of this that's so-called. these direct contracts. This is, for example, visible in this part of the Report when it refers to the City of Zagreb area, where, in a certain way, even though there has been a change of law, the law is being avoided in a certain way and a bad picture is being created. And basically behind all that is corruption. Thus, the report as such is good because it provides answers to many questions if they are carefully read. And what's most important? The most important thing is that as a result of the adoption of this Report in the Croatian Parliament, we need to task the Croatian Government to come up with a new Public Procurement Act, to allow public procurement to become truly transparent, open and accessible and to make all these illegalities, all these frauds that are present, and the particular problem is what the President of the State Commission himself said, this is the problem so-called. Anex contracts. That's one of the... examples of how and how public procurement is avoided by law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, this is appropriate, or not appropriate, but present in the area of construction, construction of buildings. Let's say these were the famous cases and the buildings for Croatian defenders were built in such a way that anex was followed by a new annex, so for example, the case of a building in Spain, where the initial price was about 10 to 12 million kuna according to the first competition, the various annexes increased to that much. That's it. And so that's the part where the state really needs to react and predict rigorous sanctions that no annexes of the contract can play out the question of procurement. And there's also one thing that's interesting is that we do it here, to avoid the provisions of the Public Procurement Act when we adopt or ratify various international contracts, or we ourselves see that in such situations we say that the application of our law for this public procurement is excluded. And this is that variant, like, we get funding from the European Union and it predetermines how and in what way, who will come to these funds, and it is shown to Croatia as part of how it has received it either from pre-accession funds or otherwise. But it's exactly where the goods can be bought, in which way and how. The problem is also linked to the various cartels from abroad, the floor, one way or another through these international contracts, taking over the market in Croatia, where domestic suppliers are thus pushing out domestic companies. This is particularly relevant to you in the area of health care, the procurement of medicines and everything else, that these external powerful cartels are destroying Croatian companies in order to rule this part. Therefore, the report is good, but it requires us or the Government to finally have a public procurement based on the principle of transparency, openness and accessibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83653	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83654	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed representative of the State Commission, the esteemed gentlemen of the House of Representatives! However, the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure is in some way true that in Croatia almost no one is able to say how many jobs are divided according to the prescribed procedure, or how many businesses in Croatia are divided past the prescribed procedure. But one thing's for sure. It's billions of kunas that end up past the competition. In this report we see that 245 institutions have been reported several times. So what now? Nothing. The city of Zagreb is the first place in the application that came through the cancellation of the competition. Someone's talking about the psychological war against Mr. Bandic, but I'm interested in something else. In 2005, it satisfied the tender or conditions of the prescribed, 9 thousand 586 competitions. Those who did not, and their competition was cancelled, lost time, lost money, and taxpayers lost content for a while. But now what are the sanctions? I claim how to whom. Nothing will happen to Zagreb. In centres where HDZ is in power, nothing will happen to you, and in Istria, the media, the state's attorney's office will skin you, and in some ways, that double criterion will be somewhat offensive. There, what does not collapse elsewhere, there is, for example, the construction of a parking lot without permission in Fažana, a criminal application against the chief of the small coastal town, while in some other areas, as Mr. Radoš mentioned earlier, such an investment would be toasted. There you won't be able to get to the state agricultural land that will challenge the state's attorney's office, and elsewhere normally, by the state, this same land will be sold to those who are willing to conduct some agricultural activity. I would like to say that if Croatia is a legal state, if we are all equal in this country, that all should be subject to the same procedures and the same under quotes, laws. For the Zagrebites, and for the Zagorcs, and the Primors, and the Posavcs, and the Međimurci, and the Dalmatians, and the Slavons, and the Licans, and also for the Istrians. About 7% of the competitions are seen, slowed down in the appeal procedure, i.e. through these objections. Dispute procedures, i.e. to obtain an answer, shall take a rule of 120 to 180 days. Of course, it makes building dynamics much more difficult. What should also be prescribed by law, what should be installed somewhere, what should finally be apostrophe, that if someone deliberately obstructs the baseless complaints the start of a construction to sanction it, that someone materially responds because of delays, loss of deadlines, penals, etc. the damage it inflicts on an honest investor, and all with the aim of simply keeping some of the order doing so, are subject to these objections. Dispute, but if your claim for disputation is denied, then take on yourself the conjecture, and not that by logic to anyone anything, individuals are literally knowingly harming any local community, any state-owned company, state, etc. I'll also say it openly, there was a lot of talk about it when the handball law was in place, and Croatia needed this handball law, not to bypass the procedure, but to cut deadlines. What was I supposed to do? Not to skip certain phases as the proposal tried to make, or bids, but to cut deadlines in half, all with a view to obtaining at least two or three months, and to respond immediately to permit applications and these complaints that could come to the start of construction. I would also like this world championship to be held in Croatia, but whether it will come to this will only be seen. Today it is certainly more questionable than six or seven months ago, but it would be just as good to be told whether these halls will be built by 15.1.2009, and in as much as possible for the reason that no financial structure has been created for all. Poreč can finance it is not controversial, but it will be interesting to follow Zagreb, Osijek etc. But if the Government gives something to these cities, that's why I'm talking about it, a certain financial aid or something like that. Then it should be given to all those cities where this championship is held. But let's let it go now. In 2005, 801 complaints were received for public tenders. 359 contests were cancelled in 2005. In 2005, 111 objections were rejected due to procedural shortcomings. So if we keep in mind that in 24 times, a contest whose value exceeds 50 million kunas was challenged, in 72 cases competitions whose value is more than 10 million kunas were disputed, then it can be said or that cca 6 billion kunas has been challenged, namely 5 billion 857 million kunas. It's de facto every fourth or fifth kuna that revolves through public competitions. Annual competitions in Croatia are awarded at least 30 billion kunas of various jobs, various procurements by the state, by parastates I do not know the institutions, local self-government and all the way there to HT, HEP, Ina, etc. clearly not counting the purchase of oil, gas and so on. This material states that through public procurement, business concessions worth 26 billion 85 million 502 thousands of 247 kuna are made. However, if they add up to two hundred thousand kunas to 20 thousand kunas, which goes without a competition, it is certainly the word that these state institutions, through such a public form, give jobs from at least 30 to 35 billion kuna. Now, as many as they are, let's say, and that's interesting, the citizens refrain from objecting, even when they know they're right because of the fear that they wouldn't be bypassed when they're assigned jobs. How many citizens who are supposed to get that public offer, sometimes it's three public offers, they don't get these offers, so I can't complain. But if so, one quarter of the competitions in the Republic of Croatia are pre-defined, which will say that 6 to 7 billion kuna is pre-defined, and that means that Croatia is in serious problems. True, the great ones who became this first of all through conversion are now in one great advantage. Small ones can't compete in any way, they have a complete inherited infrastructure so small they have to be terribly resourceful to survive at all, and survival certainly costs, and yet it will be easier to pay for that survival and eliminate competition big than it can be small. Who's breaking the law? It is broken by all, from the Croatian Radio and Television, which we talked about last week to the Ministry of Interior who, regardless of their practice, will remove the womb if they make mistakes from the Ministry of the Sea and Tourism to the City of Zagreb, from the Croatian Post Office to the INA or the Croatian Elektroprivreda, from the Croatian Railways to the Croatian Highways, FINA or "Jadrolinija", the City of Pula, Poreč, the Istrian water pipeline from Buzet, from Rijeka to the Split City Administration, etc., etc. According to one, once again through public procurement, the 26 billion kunas turn around. I said I count more than 30 to 35 billion kuna, but surely if this report for 2005 in 2007 will be minimally in the game of 35 billion kuna, but if a direct violation of the job as of this year 2005 is worth 3 billion kuna, it is gentlemen 16, 17% or every sixth kuna goes past the procedures by some stalking channels, and I dare say then knowing the opportunities in Croatia that it is equal to 6 billion kuna, and that means that each fourth or fifth kuna has its godfather. Yeah, that's right, every fourth or fifth kuna has its best man. In 2005, in 9000 189 public procurements, I said the value reached that 26 billion 85 million 502 kuna for 15 billion kuna services, for the works of 4 billion and 100 million kuna, for the purchase of goods 6 billion 937 million kuna plus 20% for competitions of up to 200 thousand kuna, which will say there are 30 billion kunas in play. This must be one real subject, but it would be sad if we didn't tell you what was just going on. It would also be necessary to impose sanctions for those who are unfoundedly contesting the competition, because the loss of 120 or 180 days, and in general much more than it amounts to an unfounded dispute is a huge loss for both the local community and the state and companies alike. It's simply not a game, it can sometimes be a political setup, these objections sometimes can be revenge, small small intrigues and against it should also be fought as well as against setting up competitions. At the end of the new law, which the head of the State Commission spoke about that would allow a complaint at all stages of the competition, it is in principle an acceptable proposal, only that it would not then block any investment 100%. To remove this, one who is an evil must answer as well as one who clearly violates the public tender procedure by those public authorities. The problem, once again I will say, are both the state and the ministry and our cities and our public institutions, but far more or more public enterprises. Mr. Radosh mentioned getting some military trucks. I'm not talking about that '91 11 tank case, but if it was '91. Ready in the wake of the war, the Vukovar defenses sell tanks that are only today in 2007 ready to be done through this form of public competition? And what, another little detail, when we're talking about a specific example, is going to be with supply if I'm not wrong about those 120 and some armored ones, because it's supposed to be now that 50 or 60 of these armors are going to be bought from Austrian companies, and 50% from Finnish. That's the worst thing that could happen and it smells like a tampering in advance I'd say that contest on that key wolf full and sheep on the number. And how can this be interpreted later, in what way? All in all, it is clear that this report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure for 2005 should be welcomed, although it would be far more opportunistic to discuss the 2006 report today and although it should be recognised that it arrived as such to the President of the Parliament only on 15 December 2006, meaning at the end of last year so that even relatively fast this was included in the procedure for 2005. All that needs to be welcomed, and once again take care of what's going on between us, because I'm going to repeat every fourth, fifth kuna in this country has a godfather.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83655	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83656	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Cain said the tanks were sold in '91. years, which isn't true, so I'm correcting his guilty allegations. The tanks were sold before the 1990s, sold by the former Yugoslavia, and the obligation of an international contract was inherited in the Republic of Croatia, and the obligation of an international contract that was inherited is an obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83657	Thank you. In 10 and 40, the time for the application of the debate is 10 minutes. For the club of representatives of the HSS, the respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83658	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable President of the State Commission for Public Procurement, colleagues and colleagues. This report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure is balanced, transparent and for whoever examined it and read it leaves sufficient space to observe and consider, including those criticisms arising from this material itself, which relate to the legal but technical and organisational character. First of all, I'm referring to the working conditions in which the State Commission works. However, public procurement is obviously very interesting on the domestic scale, above all from the fact that a large part of the gross social product is clearly being spent in public procurement, but also on the outside plan if I can say so when it comes to continuing or starting public procurement negotiations, because we are currently in a position that the negotiations have not started. Of course, before two key conditions are fulfilled or fulfilled. One of these would have been said to be publically transparent, and the other would be to make or deliver a public procurement strategy that the conditions have been created because they will be financed by the European Commission and thus the conditions should be created for the negotiations on this chapter to begin. What does the fact that we are not having negotiations in this particular chapter at this point? It discusses the great interest of the European Union to resolve this chapter as soon as possible, as best as possible and with as few exceptions as possible. In the last few years, the European Union itself has conducted a very intense and broad debate on public procurement. Because, of course, every 4th, 5th kuna was about public procurement. And there was a large area of manipulation on one side, but in the last few years in the European Union, the countries of the European Union have been experiencing a new process. And this is a process that tries to protect certain chapters in public procurement through various frameworks of national legislation. I would also like one such thesis to be placed in this report because I say in the last three years almost most of the European Union countries have installed, applied or applied one of the forms that can be called protectionist approach when it comes to public procurement, and when it comes to certain public procurements held particularly important or is particularly interested in the national economy. Of course, we go back to our daily routine. On the figures and examples found in this report and which I am convinced that this report in relation to the previous year is a step forward in terms of those numbers and data, the number of complaints but what and only the report in some way admits that it is not able not only to record this but rather to be able to through existing mechanisms, the legal possibilities it has to react is the fact that still a large part of the public procurement of goods and services is carried out without the possibility of competition, without making decisions on selection and directly contracting and thus in the most dramatic way in nature violates the basis of this Act. And of course, it's not just the foundation of this law that's being broken, it's the match that's breaking. And there's a monopolization of those who, through the character of production anyway, are in the monopoly. And it's actually one segment that doesn't have enough attention. Of course, there are many such examples and, of course, through the work of this, these state commissions are impossible to locate. Because it has no information about what happened in terms of a direct contract in a way that we can, of course, always come up with and find, so that any more capable, under quotes, bidder in public tenders will tell you that the procedure in nature is quite acceptable. That it does not make market business difficult and that everything can be arranged in nature. Now that everything can be arranged is actually the main problem facing public procurement at all. The part relating to complaints that have either been rejected or adopted, that part we have recorded. For that part, we know exactly what the objects refer to, what does it apply to? Is the procedure hurt or not? But on the larger part that's still not in this part, that part is actually the pain of the whole system and actually the negatives are being pulled most from that side. I'm going to go back a little bit the way you can or bypass the principles of public procurement. Or how to talk about bypassing public procurement when it comes to specific strategic projects. Of course, it could be a question of military technology. It could be infrastructure technology. It can be a public transport, it can be almost anything society has a special interest in. And in what way and how and whether there is, in fact, a unique model in the European Union that would prevent such bypassing of public procurement is simply not happening. I think that the European Union has failed in that part, too, because I will only list some data that are very important. Which are numerically dominant and which are almost not precedentd. In Hungary, a train supplier for national railways is in Hungary, so Switzerland's Stadler won the contest. One of the largest train manufacturers in the world, Bombardier, who has a stake in the Hungarian train manufacturer, has openly told the Hungarian government that in this case they will have to fire 600 workers. In case the Swiss Stadler who won won got a job that was 27% more favourable. Of course, the Government intervened with the European Commission and made it possible to choose a more expensive but domestic producer. Point. In Italy, Zagreb's Gredelj won the train reconstruction contest on its own. Win. It was the best. But the one, but it's open to them, but it's unofficially ordered that the contest will still be cancelled if the Italian Ansaldo doesn't get into the consortium. And of course what happened happened. So this is not what we're talking about Croatia. We are talking about the Member States of the European Union. In the Polish city of Lodg, the tender was cancelled because the cheapest offer for the purchase of trams was awarded by Cro tram. It'd be our company. The re-competition was won by the domestic "Pes". It is difficult to find in France, it is difficult to find in any city, in any village, in any part of France any locomotive or wagon that has not produced one of the two domestic producers. In other words, they're gone. Of course, why am I saying this? I'm not saying this to justify the irregularities that occur in the public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to direct contracts, when it comes to so-called. a grey-protected market that clearly exists through manipulation. But well in this Report it says and writes that the part of the regulation relating to this regulation should be strengthened, under the allegations of a "protected" public procurement market, because the existing rules are not sufficient for the Commission to act because there is no authority. Furthermore, if we have resolved the issue of scarcity of space for the work of this Commission it is good, which would mean that in the next period the report will be better, better quality and more content. Of course, the very nature of the legal protection that stems from this law is actually insufficient, he's guilty, he's just finding out when someone died that he's dead. Of course, if we want to regulate the whole market, because it says when it comes to the regulation of the market and market relations, the market cannot function that there are good advances and bad advances. The market has its own rules. Because what's public procurement? If you read how it is actually chosen in public procurement, the one who gave the best price and that's clear to us what the best price is, it's the lowest price, provided there's no annex, right. And then he says, overall, the economic best price. Now, that's even a little harder for you to figure out because it's why, because it's unarranged. It's either the best price or not the best price. Of course, there is a whole series of conditions that can even be justified. So limitations and protectionist behavior can be justified. This is when it comes to the consortium of Gredela and Končar who made trains that proved good in Croatia. And there's no reason why our consortium still can't handle the world market with those who can dumped 40% cheaper. And that's why our consortium should fail? No, he doesn't need to fail. But that's an exception that needs to be legally regulated. Because we, like any national economy, must protect our branch, the branch of our economy. But protect that there is no rule in exceptions to this gray and predetermined market. So it's important here exactly what's important in the public procurement assessment and told, to know where the problem lies. The problem does not lie on those items mentioned here, accepted or rejected, does not lie in them. Because if they were lying in them, they wouldn't even be there. They've already solved theirs. Therefore, problems should be solved where they arise and when they arise. Not when the whole process is over and we just realize something's wrong. Therefore, the Commission cannot do another person's part of the job, which is actually the point. Or we will allow the Commission to be in a series of the technical series on which the competition is created and where the work comes without being the last link to which it is merely constant. The rules that are different from the county, the city, the municipalities are simply not, it's impossible to level them. But first of all, I want to say that we need to share that segment in public procurement which was in the interest of society when it comes to protectionist, protectionist procedure for domestic producers when it comes to the strategic branch of production either in the infrastructure, defence, the Ministry of Interior or public services. And let's just say, that part of the gray and unacceptable behavior that we have in both the central state and the local self-government units, which, through the lack of legal regulations, actually finds channels to avoid public competitions or how public tenders can jump in a way that they do not represent a real basis for them because they have already agreed. Therefore, support for this Report and those assessments of the situation mentioned here should be found in amendments to the law to set them exactly as fundamentals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83659	Thank you. Club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83660	Thank you, Mr. President. President-in-Office of the State Commission, colleagues and colleagues. We have a very interesting reading in front of us. Especially after page 34 of the report. Many characters appear, some of them positive, they have a positive role because their complaints, the applicants reject complaints, sometimes they are in a negative situation, but their complaints are accepted. But it really does show that our society is increasingly more and more sensitive to a very important segment because obviously that's where the big money is hiding. And it's good to say to the public that she's sensitive, that she's curious, that she's curious and that she actually wants to know what's going on. And I would certainly like these main actors, these characters that I say to appear from all levels, and what counterpart Cain was just saying no one in this story is innocent. We have government figures, ministries, large state-owned public companies, from local level, local self-government, cities, municipalities, county. And it's simply obvious that it's good to create such a feeling that we can't miss anything. What is important The State Commission is a independent budget user whose responsibility and work is regulated by law, and it corresponds directly to this Croatian Assembly which I say submits these interesting annual reports on its work. What is very important is that decisions by the State Commission are mandatory for all parties in the process. What's actually starting a little bit worse now is that we're setting up a particular body, and then we're actually realizing that there's no space, that it couldn't have hired as many people as it took for an optimal work, so it had to be done more intensively to meet the deadlines to decide. And we hope exactly that one new practice should be created and these reports are good that when we decided to have one of these, there is a State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures that then really enables optimal conditions that it can do its very important and responsible job without having just an alibi story that for certain of these objective reasons things could not have happened the way they wanted it to. What we want to praise in the HSLS Club is that the work of this state commission is public and transparent, is expressed precisely through the principle of public and transparency of the appeal procedure, the publication of the registers of State Commission complaints on the website, the establishment of the State Commission website, active participation in education processes through a number of professional seminars and participation in various consultation meetings in the institutions of the European Union and in the order of guides and other materials, and the use of the Internet and the website enables greater availability of information, as well as quality information through official publications on public tenders, is facilitated by interested in the process of obtaining decisions on participation or not participating in the competition. I say that's just right, that education, the creation of this actually one practice that will just allow you to really give this, this gray space, that space, because when we said that this is one good and interesting reading. What does that mean? If this were the one, this situation enables someone to really be a successful company, to do a good job, to really be told to be in that situation of the colonel, and someone else is really allowed to disappear from the market and simply to be told by the deceased, and that is what is very important, the orderly learn that they have to create an ambience of precisely these equal rights, not that they really exist, that is to say, in advance, games that are actually already at the end, before the beginning know the result. It's actually something that familiarizes our man's mentality with something that really bothers him the most. None of us want to participate in the handicap race, we all really advocate in our political games to be that minimum of equality and equality, and what to say about these economic operators who also have to and when they enter the game knows how to create an ambience and that it is known that whoever breaks it will be severely punished, that it never occurs to him again. That's why I'm saying what you've done, all this logistics right now that's going to make people even know how to complain, because unfortunately some times right here with us and then you have this situation that people are trying to calculate, so I'm not going to complain then I'm really going to have someone competed b) then I'm going to be able to have my client have mercy on me and give me the same conditions as he did in some fake match. What's really hard like this at first glance, this is just a finding that you can understand that the number of complaints from 2004 is somewhat smaller, so the word is, you see this trend of mild decline, but that doesn't mean that the situation between us is clear, that it's being fixed. It's simple if it's said as a fact that I say you don't need to comment too quickly and too quickly. Approximately 9.5 thousand of these public procurements were relatively small numbers of complaints, somewhere less than 8%. It also doesn't mean anything in itself, because we can just assume that there are some of the bidders who simply don't dare ask for legal protection I say exactly by fearing that one of the next competitions would not be chosen because they have this stigma that they like to complain. What it seems to us in the club is that there is a need to increase the number of rules that will regulate the work and conduct of the state commission, which we believe is insufficient, that I am starting from this assumption that nothing is actually clear and that, in fact, every phase of the procedure needs to be properly described and, more importantly, to enable control of every phase of the procedure. Then it seems to us that a lot and documentation needs to be regulated, which in our opinion should shorten the duration of the procedure itself, it lasts about half a year, even if I say add it all together, some times it can go through a whole year and actually things are standing, and it's always said that the most expensive money is the money that's trapped and that can't be put into service in good time. In view of the subsidisation, it would be good to draw conclusions after the discussion of this report has been carried out that would oblige the competent authorities to make the necessary rules within certain deadlines. We actually experience these reports as a matter of fact. In some ways, these reports need to educate us all a little and really make it possible for the practice to change afterwards. If we're really just, if you're writing an interesting reading like that, we're going to say something about them like this or what you're saying, and there's nothing to do after these perceived negativity changes, then I don't think these reports make any sense. The report itself states that the state of the public procurement process is not satisfactory, so the overall procurement process from the establishment of the expert commission to the final decision on selection and the appeal statement which we have said takes almost half a year, which we believe is indeed a long period and is completely economically unwarranted. According to the Public Procurement Act, this procedure should take a maximum of 100 days less, 71 days, and I say legal protection against... only eight days. [[You don't understand.]] The biggest remarks concerning the public procurement system, which the Commission highlighted in the report, relate to the Public Procurement Act, which is set out in the report by a series of irregularities and contradictions and blank gaps. Obviously it's a very sensitive area, that it's publicly sensitive, that it's really true, because it's the area where this anti-corruption plan really is, the programme can really be implemented most effectively. In our opinion, it is necessary to amend the Public Procurement Act towards finding the best modes to solve a large number of problems that I say occur in the public procurement system. You don't have to run from it. We have here information that in the 96th century, Sweden has changed its Public Procurement Act even eight times. That is exactly what it means as soon as the practice shows some aberrations, then it's really simple, and this Parliament can and we hope that the government will listen to these discussions and these remarks, and that we will soon have a new Public Procurement Act here to discuss. Just because I say there are these legal gaps in the law and because some of the provisions are unarranged, this possibility of malfeasance is being opened. The consequences of making a decision on selecting the most favourable bidder, as I say the existing Public Procurement Act gives the possibility that, after selecting the lowest price and other bidders who accept that price, they may participate in a given business on the basis of some additional criteria. I'm saying what we think is, it's just creating this new confusion, and that's exactly why we have this whole series of these complaints and the creations of this very atmosphere, the environment that everything in this society is quite speculative. So based here, we had just recently seen this example in so-called. The famous... A law that obviously didn't, it had to be withdrawn even though I say it should think exactly about shortening, but also respecting procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One thing is, if due to some deadlines, if the procedure is speeding up, but that doesn't mean that the procedure needs to be ignored and that exactly that feeling that nothing will be dimmed that's so popular and things will happen, it's going to be transparent, it's something that every law and then we can raise our hand for one law that some way of having a charge with us and some emotional charge just because we thank God and fortunately handball power. The main objective of the Public Procurement Act was to make effective and economic use of sub-accountable funds based on clear rules of competition, advertising, transparency and the protection of the rights of all participants in the match. The area of public procurement is highly sensitive because, with the problem of deviations between the efficiency of the protection of domestic industry, it is also related to the problem of moral gambling. An even better regulation of the area would reduce the abuse of powers and the control of the state apparatus would be carried out. Here is what my colleague Markov said earlier about how this is done in some other countries, this protectionism that apparently even these strict laws of the European Union are still present in many countries and the European Union, which just shows that the situation is not so great elsewhere. I'm saying it shouldn't be an alibi for these malversions here with us, but it certainly shows that some element of the protectionism of the domestic industry that should also be incorporated into certain legal solutions. In practice there are often abuses that prevent uninterrupted public competition from taking place, both for a party benefiting from public competition... a service or concession, as well as a permanent bidder who is interested in the successful acquisition of public competition for mutual benefit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the period of application of the existing Public Procurement Act and its amendments and additions, a number of issues have been raised. One reason is that sublegal regulations that should be further elaborated by individual institutes, clarify and facilitate their application in practice, unfortunately, have not yet been adopted. The disputed issues most often raised referred to the public tendering procedure as a basic means of obtaining and to the conclusion of the contract after the completion of the competition procedure and to the legal consequences arising from the infringement of the provisions of the law. With objections to the tendering process and self-monitoring of procurement which was quite difficult because supervision is possible only when there are clear rules, procedures, records and supervisory services. Accurate compliance with the law in public procurement, making it difficult to deviate from the procedures for the adoption of the necessary sublegislative acts, the implementation of extensive checks and the documentation of each step in the procedure significantly narrows the space for... The supply of goods and services of less than 200,000 kunas is often very non-transparent and opens up the possibility of manipulation, and therefore the regulation should be amended to regulate and more precisely define such procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is necessary and very often it is actually done consciously and it is just going on certain services and goods that are cheaper than those 200 thousand, and then I don't know a million kuna services or a job turning into some five, six smaller jobs and I'm saying that it must also be run, and things should be said to be more precisely regulated and defined. It is necessary to implement a series of measures necessary as a prevention of public procurement manipulation such as management and consistent implementation of reorganisations, distribution of competences and responsibilities and, above all, the implementation of internal control. It is important to establish internal control at all levels and in public service bodies, state administration, local self-government, but in particular to affirm and intensify the work of internal control. I can tell, now we have one example that the mayor of a big city in Croatia has a consultant exclusively for public procurement. I have to admit, though, that it's unclear to me what a man can do for a year, every day, eight hours, but that's if it's a step towards intensification and affirmation of internal control, then we'll support that, too. And I'm saying, that's exactly what you'd do in the best possible way... possible irregularities in the public procurement process and in the place where it actually takes place and in the right sense of the word, i.e. just to repeat this is interesting and good reading, but the work of the State Commission is insufficient if it is only actually the top of the icy hill, and below that there are those jobs that are not correct. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83661	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83662	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This report refers to 2005 and the report which will describe the current situation, so what is happening today will be discussed in the House in 2009 or 2010 before some new assembly and the matter becomes somewhat pointless. There's a law on public procurement, and we all know that he's a part-respecting man, a part-infringing person, and one part he's playing. Where the law breaks maybe it's not that big a problem because there's a State Control Commission, so she records those violations, and then there's some kind of appeal procedure, and it's pretty much the end of it. The bigger problem is where the law is being played, so it means a deviation from his spirit and his breakdown, and that this law-playing will never enter into the reports was this Commission and that this law-playing will actually be a deviation from fair play in that procurement process. How does all this law play out? Here we were recently witnesses, one such attempt was carried out by the government itself by proposing a special handball law that when proposed by the government was the law, and when it was withdrawn, Bandic's law acted. What was the point of this law? And it was intended to suspend some of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. So to declare one special case, and that represents that, would represent one legal deviation from the usual rules or from the law of the rules laid down. Of course, this came upon an unfavourable public echo, and the government certainly withdrew such a legal proposal because of the public good, because the mayors all say that they will succeed in building and respecting the Law on Public Procurement and Working, therefore leading the affairs transparently. We are witnessing an article on how the Public Procurement Act is not broken, but played. He also plays a lot on the example of the Ministry of the Interior by applying such a so-called so-called State Department. a secret procedure. There's a legal possibility for that. And it's good that it exists. It's supposed to exist. There should be some specific goods and services that are not public goods. There should also be when the purpose of the procurement is such that it must be a secret. But the Ministry of the Interior abuses this provision, this possibility of a secret procedure, so by direct contract, for example, it purchases cars. Okay. Cars. They say cars have to be specially equipped if they're interceptors, these, they. Well, they're not on the market in a public offering. All right, come on. Let's put cars aside. But the Ministry of Interior obtained four photo laboratories of the "Fuji" brand by means of such a direct contract and under the seal of secrecy of the process. So why are they, how are the photographic labs they need to develop photographs there, what makes it some sort of specific secret equipment? When they're standard equipment. They're used everywhere. So they got, for example, expendable material for criminal technology and the Center for Criminal Arts. And these are your reagents different, chemicals that are all sorts of. Now, that's a secret. It's the same secret, and under that secret, they're getting reagents under a direct contract. And top of it are Nicon F80 cameras. Each one costs 7 thousand kuna. They're analog, not digital. Analogs. But they only got housings, no lenses. And at the Ministry of Interior, there are no adequate lenses for those housings. And now they're standing there in the warehouse, they can't be used because without an lens they're worth nothing and they're completely useless. And they'll probably never be used. That someone's even thinking of getting analog machines is part of the encyclopedia, I guess, of the stupidity of digital technique, but what justice is, however, with new stupidity that digital photography is not evidence. It is. And everyone knows that. Also purchased are the MET 2 60 CT-4 flashes. It's usually part of the usual criminal and technical photography equipment. But they have these flashes, and it's interesting that their guarantee was dated back to 2003. Someone's old supplies, someone's warehouses are cleaned up to get something that's completely unusable and that's now standing in the M.O.P. warehouse. The reports, therefore, are too late. Parliamentary debates are not a good method of controlling what is happening in real space and in real political time. It would be good if the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security who is not in charge of the Ministry of the Interior went there to examine these cameras, to examine these flashes, and to submit a report to this Parliament without a spot in 2009 or 2010, when it will report on these cameras. To file a report so we can discuss it, who is and why did he avoid the Public Procurement Act in the MUP? Who under covertly obtained analogue cameras? Who got the flashes that set off the expiry date? Who earned it? Who did it happen to? Whose warehouse was emptied? Then that debate would already make sense. And then it would certainly be a guarantee that such things would not appear. That it won't happen. That those in charge of the purchase of goods and the purchase of state money, for taxpayers' money, will be able to access it responsibly. Not because they themselves are very responsible people. It's because they'll be afraid to control this Parliament. What we're doing right now is not control. This is a statistical finding. And receiving these statistics on the knowledge and acceptance of such reports, because what else will we do with them than accept them. Maybe it would be a solution to involve more public in that. Well, if the Committee on Internal Policy doesn't do that kind of checking, then let civil society do it. So let the outside government sector go public with the facts. So let the public warn on how to spend those taxpayers' money. Maybe you should think about changing the law. The law is said by those who have to carry out public procurement tasks rigid, strict, insatiable, often those deadlines are too long, so the problem cannot be solved if the law is respected until the end. Maybe. Maybe. He needs to be found. Maybe he needs to be flexible. But then strengthen control. So if it's going to be a little softer law, a little more elastic, then control must be tighter, stronger, more efficient and faster. And faster. And the debate Parliament would have had about that must be spotless, because discussions with two or three years of delay on a problem, they are completely pointless, they are one waste of public time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83663	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83664	A colleague, Stazic, incorrectly claimed that the government tried to play the Public Procurement Act by proposing so-called. "handball law." Namely, the government has proposed a very legal bill, the truth of SDP Mayor Milan Bandic's incentive to speed up public procurement procedures, rather than to play out the Public Procurement Act. So she's an incorrect colleague and first look at what's going on. Because if the procedure had come to the Parliament, of course it would have been such a legal law. Second thing, I agree with you that as far as the camera is concerned... that it should be examined. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But let's not stop at that. Let us also examine the carpets that were also supplied at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83665	Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83666	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Stazic claimed that the MUP...... Please stop my time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear colleague Stazic said several incorrect allegations that I will arrive at this short time. The cars of the MUP were bought so that it was played by the Public Procurement Act. That's not true. Nowhere in the world is publicized the characteristics of the interceptor's car. So the infringers on the road wouldn't recognize them. And that's why the law was bypassed, it went to a direct contract. And the prices that have been achieved are below market prices. So we should have asked the minister when he was sitting here on "The current morning," not today when he was gone. It's similar to a crime lab photo lab. Well, no country in the world is declaring its criminal methods to criminals because then of course they won't be successful. As far as the chemical is concerned, they are purchased by direct contract because they are defined by existing and inherited equipment. So the equipment dictates which chemicals you buy and not on the market you want. So there are methods to get to the truth, not to politicize with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83667	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83668	Mr. President, President of the State Commission, colleagues and colleagues. I will actually talk in this report as well as about the public procurement process itself more in principle. The public procurement control shall also be carried out by the Public Procurement Office within the Government or the Ministry of Finance, and the State Commission shall be responsible only for those public procurement control procedures for which complaints have been made. So she can't act alone and control public procurement unless there's been a complaint. But before the establishment of the State Commission for Public Procurement Control and the State Office, the special State Public Procurement Office has been continued on the procedures and irregularities in public procurement annual reports provided by the State Audit Office. And we've been doing this for over a decade, but even now every time we get an annual report from one of the most common findings of the State Audit are irregularities in public procurement procedures. It should actually be some kind of red light on the analysis of both the Government and Parliament and the existing law and the perceived disadvantages to change. This report is very well served in statistical and qualitative terms. With a review of the cases in which the Commission has conducted the procedure and the list of contracting entities which have been declared to violate the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, we are also presented with the lack of certain provisions of the Public Procurement Act which are either unspecified or frequently violated. This is very good information for us because it is rare that the state institution suggests to the legislator what to change to make a quality living in practice after. I would like to take two positions from this report, which is suggested by the State Commission. First, it warns us that in competitions, the selection criteria for the most economically favourable offer appeared in 88 cases and that it is rarely in use. That this criterion is neither legally prescribed nor implemented by those who took it into account what is prescribed by the poor legislative normability and the development of the institute in the public procurement law itself. And secondly, what we are warned of, the debt, is a long period of time for the duration of the procurement procedure in the event of a statement of appeal. So from the establishment of the expert commission for, to the finality of the decision in the appeal procedure, it can go up to 176 days. It is, for me, two quality data that should actually serve us when we analyse and possibly amend the Public Procurement Act. What, in fact, why are we, in fact, having a broad discussion about public procurement procedures? It's not just in Croatia. This is also being discussed continuously in the European Union. In the European Union itself, public procurement is particularly important because public procurement in, rather, the latest data reached more than 16% of the social gross product of the European Union or 100 in absolute amount somewhere around, over EUR 1.5 billion. The tendency for all companies in the European Union to compete for the conclusion of contracts under the same conditions would result in improvement in the quality of public services, economic growth, the creation of new jobs, and this is a significant aid in the fight against corruption. Croatia, which wishes to enter the European Union, must pay due attention to this area and fall within all the changes implemented by the European Community in public procurement procedures. The basic principles of public procurement should be transparency, openness and accessibility, thus enabling free competition and protection of public interest through rational public spending. We also see from this report, but also from the State Audit report, that is not often the case. When we talk about the objectives of public procurement then they are, they are actually the next moments. More competitiveness on the market, preventing the discrimination of bidders, transparency in the business of clients in property-legal affairs and rational spending of tax assets. Unfortunately, we do not have accurate records of the total number of public procurements and of their value. That's what this report also points to, and I think it would be good to include this data in the annual plans of the State Statistics Institute. So that the obligation of those who are investigating procurement contracts is that they must also submit documentation to the State Statistics Office in order to be an official institution where public procurement records will be kept. The problem is direct settlements that are now required to be published in the National Journal as a matter of fact, that provision has been laid down so that potential bidders or competitors can express a complaint. But it's already hard to say here, we have a little complaint because it's hard to complain if you expect another possible job with such an institution. Public procurement is often associated with the problem of corruption. Especially since we don't have such reviews of all public procurement. It is significant that our Competitiveness Council has also been declared public procurement. I will list the problems they have seen and which they offer, and which solutions they offer to improve the situation with public procurement. The first thing they say is that the existing law in the area of public procurement needs to be updated urgently. That it must be regulated, that it is necessary to establish a new regulation of public procurement procedures. They also point out that information on the regulation and application of public procurement rules needs to be strengthened. That it is necessary to establish a special judicial department for administrative matters in public procurement proceedings. Lastly, it is necessary to ensure sufficient representation of professional and impartial persons in the conduct of public procurement procedures within the bodies carrying out those procedures. So these are people who are directly engaged or are participants in public procurement procedures. And I'm sure they have the best exam and I can give the best suggestions. And we, not only Parliament but also the Government, should analyse which parts of the law should be amended or possibly come with a brand-new Public Procurement Act. Of course, as I said, this report is acceptable to me. It may be in a time-out, but there's no significant difference from the last report where we also had about 7% of complaints about, according to the recorded number of public procurements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83669	Thank you. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83670	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, we have a report from the institution that has made a major step in directing public procurement to legal frameworks. When I remember our first purchases there from the early '90s by inherited laws, then the procurement looked like you found a supplier in the phone book, you call him and tell me what you needed, he tells you what the price is, you sign it, and the job is done. At the end of the war, the Government of the Republic of Croatia passed the first law. He was called the Law on the acquisition of goods, services and labours, '97. The year has been brought. He had 40 members and it was the first framework, so even before the end of the war of legal behaviour in public procurement. Even the government then established the United Purchase Service of all ministries for the needs they share. This law is, of course, much more modern, and hopefully the new one will be even more modern. The office has done business as we see here very correctly and neatly. I would even like to commend the financial report of the office that no one has mentioned. They even point out how far they had strayed from the plan for about 300 thousand kunas because they could not hire all the employees and saved. Let's think of the HRT, which also spends people's money, which has left 120 million kuna behind, and it has no obligation or desire to explain it to us. So this is for every commendation. Of course it is commendable and public work, so all complaints are on the Internet and anyone can have insight into everything the office does, which is the basis of its existence. The number of complaints wasn't if it was big, only 7.8% of all purchases. But I guess that's also because a lot of people don't dare complain because then in the next competition, they'll be eaten by the bigger ones. Well, maybe that's not the right state of dissatisfaction in the contests. I wouldn't be talking about this office anymore because I think he's done his job properly. I'd like to talk about what's going on past the office, and there's actually the point of breaking not only washed but also moral procedures in public procurement. The first thing that happens is that a large number, a large amount of state money, is being spent past public procurement, that was mentioned. I will mention again Croatia's broadcasting, which, by the way, spends our people's money and still dares to file a lawsuit against the person who made it public because he says it's a business secret. So such an amoral form of behavior should deserve public condemnation. The second form of bypassing and public procurement and this office here are subsequent works. I don't think it's mentioned today either. What's the follow-up? Public procurement gets a construction job for x money. When it's finished, an account is put out which is by 20, 30% higher and the client pays for it because it's later work. I think that these subsequent works should be banned by law once because there are no subsequent works in construction if you've studied the project and seen what you have to do. I will present an experience from the period of reconstruction of institutions, health institutions destroyed in Serbian aggression. The first hospital we've been rebuilding has cost the 10 million marks at the time. A performer came in, one big renowned performer then, and he put out a million more marks, so 10% more for the docks. I asked him why you didn't say it in time, and I'd call a new competition for the final papers. He says that's the way it is. I've broken the custom very simply. Instead of a million marks, I gave him gold letters of thanks for donating the '96 to Croatian healthcare. 1 million marks. He passed out, survived, we gave him first aid. By the end of the war-torn war, the hospitals were no longer a single request for any further payment above the agreed amount. So it's the responsibility of the orderer and the one who pays. There is no way he can order, or pay for, additional work. And what I would like to mention, what is new in Croatia, even appeared in the period after this reporting period, is what is known in the world, the appearance of monopoly cartels. These are large companies that agree and divide the world on a global scale. I will belong to these countries, to you. They have a monopoly role and a monopoly landscape in countries. It's been going on with us for two years. Such monopolies exclude all others from the cartel, and other cartel colleagues do not compete in that area. So when you analyze the last two years of some competitions, it will be seen that only one of the big companies appears. You wonder why the other 3, 4 large companies that produce this product have not reported. Because they agreed not to answer. Because then he dictates the price as he wants. And when someone engages in such a cartel agreement as a competitor, they exclude him from making up public affairs. But it's never a public affair that produces this cartel that's a monopoly. It's the one that's from next-door monopolies. And this one never competes here, but only organizes and exposes the affair. There's plenty of examples like that with us. These cartelists have another group of experts to find reasons for cancelling the competition. Like what? When you're looking at some contest groups, the number of complaints is 100% compared to the lost in each cartel's competitions. So, on every lost contest, the cartels file a complaint. Why? Because he has a top team to find holes in the Public Procurement and Commission Act, the State Commission can't do anything but cancel the competition. An example. The big competition was canceled because the page numbering was in the bottom right corner instead of the top. The Commission is right, because by law it must indeed be in the top, but the cartel found it to knock down a couple of tens of millions of kunas worth of competition. It didn't save the state, the country would come more expensive because it would have to repeat the competitions. Another example. Instead of the number of pages through the page in the documentation, the page is through the number of pages. So it doesn't say 200 over 3, it says 3 over 200. The Commission had to take down the tender and the end-user was left without equipment. Why do I say that? Because in Europe, the fight against cartels is great. We are witnessing a terrible affair in one of the European countries where one such cartel recently paid 850m euros in fines due to similar procedures. And I'm warning you because they just put their paws down in Croatia and now it's time to organize against them. How? So let's extend our competence for public procurement from this commission that I repeat is very correct, but it can't jump into another institution called the Competition Protection Agency. The agency should get new powers, and in the new Public Procurement Act, these cartels should be involved so that the hand they provided, we amputate our paw in Croatia while it is still time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83671	Thank you. Replica, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83672	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a colleague of Hebrang's opened a very interesting topic, which is a matter of ex post work. I think that when it comes to public procurement, maybe it's an essential question when we're talking about construction. Namely, here are some fresh examples. I'll say in our county there's one firm that usually goes with a dunping price between 20% and 30% cheaper than the rest. Of course, it is a company of a war profiteer that is co-ordinating with SDP and HNS, but it may not be as interesting at the moment as it is an interesting fact that after all these works there is a price for subsequent works that exceeds the amount offered by other companies for the price of the works that have been published in the competition. Therefore, this system of ex post works is used to actually achieve a higher price than the amount offered in the competition and in a way to eliminate competition in this area and indeed is below what is happening in this area and I agree with you that a proposal should come, or we can also encourage it to ban actually the possibility of setting the price for subsequent works. That's what I think would put order into public procurement, especially in this area of construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83673	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83674	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague, Matušić, who actually hit the heart of what I was about to say. A lot more money is poured out on subsequent works in construction than on total works in construction and this is a finding that actually worries. The examples we've heard from the Dubrovnik-Neretva County are very typical, we know for them, and they've escalated to that extent that long-term work is more expensive than basic work and I think that in all such cases we should investigate. In addition to this proposal to ban recent works by law, perhaps another proposal as well, and that is that the legal and all prednuptial works must be placed on the contest as the second stage of the works, so at least in that compartment of cakes everyone participates, not just... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83675	Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83676	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, public procurement is indeed a very interesting area and it is a fertile ground for various types of illegality, conjecture, abuse, corruption and other harmful, in fact unacceptable actions and actions that are truly harmful to the functioning of every society. Of course, we can't see the details in this report because that's what the President of the State Commission said about that dark number drowning in those exceptions from the application of the Public Procurement Act that drowns in breaking those jobs at below 200 thousand kuna where the law itself is actually bypassed. But, of course, the State Commission can't even examine it, it's a matter of review, it's a matter of those who have knowledge of such things to report it to the State Attorney's office and to other competent state authorities who need to actually examine such facts. This report I think is very correct, it really gives us all the information that is relevant and relevant to us in order to be able to assess whether the State Commission has been doing well or not during the given period. I hope we will discuss the work report for 2006 this year. What is commendable is that we in general have a State Commission in this way that we have in our system. It is independent, it is independent, we founded it, so by law the Croatian Parliament and it provides a much more objective, quality way of protecting those entities that have certain objections to the public procurement process. If we look at all the data that we have here, what's first of all, it's really a small number of complaints. Out of 9 and some thousands of posts, we have 700 and some announcements of public tenders, we have 700 and some complaints about this procedure and indeed 7.8% is not some significant number. Analyze the causes of such a small number of complaints because of that dark number we can't influence? Is it fear of those who took part in the competition so they won't write complaints now because they're afraid they won't get a job in the next competition? I have to admit, I don't want to believe in those structures. We live in 2007 today, and I think that our subjects who are obliged to apply this Public Procurement Act, and these are also state-owned companies and ministries that have reached in 2007, all these years and a certain degree and level of political culture and business, so that this Law should not be an obstacle to them and that business actually takes place in a correct manner. What I think of at this point first is, say, a state-owned company called Plinacro. We are all witnessing that last year the project was completed, that large pipeline from Pula to Karlovac, and before the deadline, all the conditions of this Public Procurement Act were respected, and I believe that the whole series and most of the entities are very neatly and correctly applying this Act. What I think is also important to say about this report. The report is very fair and it states how long our entire public procurement process is on average. It lasts 110 days in front of the client, so it says here, on average, from the day of the decision to go to a public tender, the appointment of the Commission for the conduct of the public tender. The following 26 days are followed by a procedure under appeal which is being resolved by the contracting authority, and after that 40 days, this appeal procedure has been pending on average in front of our State Commission since the day of the appeal. And your assessment is correct in this report, that it's all one long term together and that, in fact, all these deadlines should be shortened, how this deadline within which the client conducts a public procurement procedure that should take place within some 70 days to be in some normal frames. But where you are, of course, self-critical in this report and this deadline that lies ahead of you, in front of this State Commission for 40 days, and it needs to be brought down into some acceptable framework. I understand that the problems in communication and correspondence, that you need a number of documents but I think you need to educate all these entities that are obliged to deliver these documents to you, to deliver really spotlessly and in time, because there are also these short deadlines that are related to the statement of objections and complaints and there is no reason to actually take 40 days. To be commendable, it seems to me that in this year 2005 there was also a stabilisation related to the material conditions of work, which is how we see from the Report we finally have a space where you can and hire new people, to reach this optimal number of 26 employees. The funding I see is not a problem because the report shows that in fact these procedures and initiated complaints, de facto, allow almost self-financing to our State Commission, because of some budget of about 5 million kuna, 2 and a half million is brought through these costs that the subjects pay. What is also to praise is from this report that you have said very, very precisely and that the law has certain weak points that should be improved. Finally, we now have a broader practice of conduct and at the end of the Administrative Court, which has established certain normative and certain ways of conduct. And what I expect in the following reports is for you to be even more concrete, not to remain on the principle of objecting that the law is full of voids, that the law in some parts is unspeakable, but to make it clear and loud that this in a particular article is not precise or that. And in the end, we, as a Parliament, can indeed react and say, we are going with an amendment to the law, or what we have heard has already been announced that, in fact, the law will pass one alignment with the legal gains of the European Union. So, I absolutely support this report and it's very acceptable. It says that the complaint doesn't have much and that dark number, it's actually in the jurisdiction of some other bodies. If we are going to enter any legislative changes, what is very important, it is important to say that this Public Procurement Act, it must not be an obstacle to efficiency, the speed of implementation of the procedure, but it should actually be a condition and should help to make the state money spent efficiently and rationally. And what's important is that it should actually be an obstacle, but in the beginning not to have any abuses, machinations, and harmful behaviors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83677	Thank you. Replica, the respected representative Kresimic Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83678	Here, let me briefly emphasise the importance of the quality and responsible work of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures, which is also pointed out by the representative Bosnjakovic. Why? It seems to me that it is not clearly highlighted the importance of this state body. The efficiency of spending a significant part of the state budget determines the efficiency of our overall economy, its competitiveness. Faster, better, cheaper means more competitive at the same time, not only in the Republic of Croatia but very recently in the single European market. It is not noted that one of the most important objectives of the Lisbon Strategy is to strengthen the integrated European market. And in this sense, all these efforts, all of these discussions that contribute to our stronger internal competitiveness, are also a contribution to building a single European market that needs to be not only more internally competitive but also more globally competitive. And in that sense, the Lisbon Strategy deserves special attention in all our public debates like this. And that is why I reiterate once again what is particularly important, the efficiency of spending on a limited state budget and is indeed one of the most important objectives of any responsible state policy. And I think what you've been doing for the last few years is a contribution to that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83679	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83680	In fact, I fully agree with my colleague, Cosic, and indeed the Public Procurement Act and the whole procurement process, it must not be difficult. It must not be an obstacle to the efficient and rational spending of that money. It must not actually be one procedure in which it is bureaucratized, but it must contribute precisely to rationality and efficiency. In this regard, we actually expect in the next reports of the State Commission and more concrete proposals regarding possible gaps in the law if there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83681	Thank you. One notice. The chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media Zeljka Antunović, a session scheduled for 14 February at 13:00, is postponed until further notice. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83682	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, President of the State Commission! So I think the debate so far has pointed to what's more important when it comes to the public procurement system. So, not only is our system not based on the principles of transparency, openness and availability as well as on the very report itself, which is explicit, both indirectly and from the speech of our colleagues, but we see that we are essentially getting a hollow as Swiss cheese. But obviously it was done on purpose so that everything that comes out of such an unorganized system was actually done on purpose, so that in certain situations it could please this or that. On the other hand, it's obvious that this report is year by year, and last year there was a similar report, it's repeated, and it's starting to look like Pope Dukljanin's Yearbook. They're just finding out the facts, without doing anything. Therefore, now we need to agree here whether we will continue to have such a system of public procurement which is not only not transparent, it is not open and accessible, but also essentially the focus of possible corruption. What to say in the case of the State Commission acting in accordance with the law, as is the case with the renovation of the hotel "Dalmatia" in Makarska, which was opened by this tender of the company Hoteli Makarska d.d. They annulled, these still worked as if nothing had happened. And why is that possible? Because we do not have the Public Procurement Act where the provision will stand, when it is annulled that this solution has the executive power and that it must automatically suspend all that has been initiated under such a single procedure as has been declared illegal. So it's already visible on this example that we actually have a state commission as a cover here that we have a state commission that's going to figure it out, which in the final part is going to say that we should do this, that we should do it, and we here are doing nothing, and the government itself is doing it to do it. The problem is further as there are, meaning many of these doubts and dilemmas, and one part comes that even in many cases there are individuals in the state commission who will also appeal to the opinion that this should be done in the given procedure, and the very variant and situation itself is visible and that many ministers call the president of the state commission himself about the various situations that are happening. Now, are we going to decide to apply final sanctions in all eclectic cases of law enforcement, or violations of the law? Are we going to decide that the participants of the public competition will file complaints in all cases where they determine that there has been a violation of the law or there will still be that variant that says listen if you complain about this contest, be sure that you will never get another job with us. That's why this situation is happening so many don't complain. And what happens next if we continue to hold on to such a sinister system? There will be those variants that big public procurement transactions will be deliberately cut into small pieces and will automatically go to direct contracts. It'll go to direct contracts. It's done on purpose, it's always all these big projects but then it's said it's because of your speed, because of your efficiency, the higher power is at stake, there will always be a lot of excuses why you should do it. Are we going to continue to allow that every state body, all the users of the state budget, are self-procuring, say, office equipment and everything else, when it can simply be done that one body for all these entities is doing public procurement where it's likely to be 30% cheaper than if all of this were to be combined. Shall we continue to allow it to be placed under cover of secrecy in public procurement and what has nothing to do with secrecy? But unfortunately we have a lot of these, we have examples at the Ministry of Defense, we have examples at the Ministry of the Interior, we have in other bodies of the state administration that have something secret, so the law allows the concept of secrecy to be placed and what has nothing to do with secrecy. Let's say the secret is, how many Croatian military tanks do they have? Is it a secret how many Croatian police officers there are? It is no secret, it must normally be shared within the European Union, within the framework of NATO alliances. You can find this information on the Internet, on the websites and on the NATO Alliance or any European commission that deals with it. But we will continue to obtain, for example, clothing and equipment for members or armed forces or members of the Ministry of the Interior by secret, or without public competition because it is a secret information. So what kind of secret information is that? It is therefore evident that there are a huge number of reasons why the conclusion of today's debate should be that the Government must urgently organise a new full Public Procurement Act, which will allow everyone to participate in public procurement, which on the one hand will protect the public interest, means the interest of taxpayers in terms of the efficient and legal spending of taxpayers' funds, and on the other hand means allowing free market competition for all and not only those who, indeed, regret the fact that in many situations already know in advance of public competition who will get it. Unfortunately, these are the culinary stories for you, so why don't you open it up here? Why don't you just say that a lot of people come down for the so-called. the annexes, contracts, in order to play the public competition system, and this also makes it impossible for the law that has to tell exactly what must be in this public competition, which all things must be contained, that all of these means things that we witness both in the City of Zagreb and in the whole of Croatia as well as in what way it is done, are mainly big stories when there are not a lot of public at the level of municipalities and cities and everything else. So let's protect taxpayers, let's set up a system that will give guarantees to both taxpayers and us that it will be a system that will be available to everyone and that we will be able to exercise our control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83683	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83684	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's counterpart Kovacevic in most things I agree with you, but there are some things that if the government came with a proposal for a new law, that means if it came with amendments to the Public Procurement Act, I don't think it's going to be covered. And that's what it's like when certain competitions overwrite the characteristics of a particular machine that a particular company can satisfy, and then others can't even answer that contest, let alone write a complaint because they can't participate in that competition at all, and there was a story like that, we remember in the newspaper with some machines called the Shimacu. Then there are cases where the State Audit every year points to problems about the purchase of medicines, which is the weight of public procurement that around 2 million and 400, is likely to be 2 billion and 400 this year, and probably this year there will be 3 billion, where some colleagues, a colleague of Hebrang, have said that drugs cannot even be obtained by public procurement but by direct contract. So no one can complain about the procedure either because it's a direct contract. And the third thing, you said well, is these annex contracts that no one will see either, because in the very process of public procurement, there is no annex contract. So I don't believe that any change that wouldn't involve controlling public procurement, means until the end, I don't believe that any amendments to the law could solve it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83685	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83686	Dear Mr. President, an esteemed colleague, that's exactly the system and the component should be public procurement answers to all the questions you've been talking about. Which I failed to say. In order for the system to be transparent, open and accessible, all situations must be simulated, which we know and are talking about here in the Croatian Parliament today and for which there is no solution to the law on purpose. Why isn't there? Because it could happen. And these annexes contracts and competitions where pre-labelled by the code name and last name of the man who's going to get by that competition. That's all he says we should do in law and provide for sanctions. It means sanctions, and in the stage of the publication of the competition, if that's what we're doing, without speaking in the stage of the execution of the competition itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83687	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83688	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Kovacevic said that probably some of those who would complain are probably afraid to complain. They have a fear of complaining because they probably wouldn't get a job maybe in the next competition. Unfortunately, that's true. Unfortunately, that is true, even this report that is before us unequivocally says here to quote: "A relatively small number of complaints made in relation to the number of posts. This points to the conclusion that the bidders often do not dare to seek legal protection by fearing that the following competitions will not choose, or that the contracting authority will set discriminatory criteria which they will not be able to meet." And so on and so forth. Unfortunately, it happens in many cases. Let's just say I'd be interested. From this report is a clear, concrete case of the City of Zagreb. The highest number of complaints and the highest number, the highest number of complaints respected. Maximum number of tenders cancelled. Even 91% of the tenders cancelled. 91%. And I'd really like to know what's going on next with those who've made the complaint, who've won the dispute. Were they then able to get more to go to a public tender? Let's just say that would be very interesting for the public and I believe in the commission itself. Perhaps in that direction you should also consider amending the Public Procurement Act. That this is exactly how to monitor what is happening in the area of public procurement. And he'd look back on one thing. It's already been said here that you might be going and targeting things. Unfortunately, in some situations, you have to go. In particular, we also talk about concert pianos. Just one brand in the world, not to advertise it now, is "Steinmei" which is really the most representative of this kind of activity and which must actually be the rights of every concert hall. In that case, of course, you can't call a public tender for a concert piano because you'll get a price of, say, 20 thousand Euros, for some cheaper brand not to mention, and the concert "Steinmei" costs, say, 140 thousand EUR. So it's not there, it can't be, it can't be. You have to go straight to the contract because you know what the best instrument is. But such cases must indeed be exceptions. Exceptional exceptions to listing exactly what such cases are in the purchase of certain equipment is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83689	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83690	Well, Mr. President, I was just speaking on behalf of the HSP Club on the case of the city of Zagreb. Namely, the City of Zagreb is one of the biggest infringers of the Public Procurement Act. But unfortunately, what's going on? It happens that those who have succeeded in the appeal procedure can no longer get any business in public competition from the City of Zagreb or the bodies or institutions or companies that are related to the City of Zagreb. Why? Because there's no law on sanctions, for example. How and in what way will such things be sanctioned if it is such a percentage of public procurement cancelled. Or not to talk about the second situation that the City of Zagreb is ahead of the fact that somewhere around 150 million was just spent this year on, or last year on a direct contract. Therefore, all such or similar cases indicate in this section that the law must be both simulated and that it must have solutions that will guarantee that there are things, in reality a system of public procurement that will be transparent, open and accessible to all, and not only to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83691	Thank you. And the third replica, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83692	Mr. President, I've been correcting the wrong allegations, not the replica. Here's a little bit. I wanted to say the system, says a colleague, saying: "The system hollows like Swiss cheese made on purpose so that it can be suitable for this or that." That's not true. Because if that were the case, then the whole of Europe would function in the same way because these are all very similar laws. But what I was going to say. When a colleague so well, it's not a replica of sorry, when a colleague knows everything so well, I wonder how many cases he's reported to the commission because they're all thieves under this system, and I honestly don't think it's going to go long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83693	I, I saw that replica...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83694	No, no, no, it's not. This is me. It's even buried down there somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83695	Let's replicate, let's get this sorted out... Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[- Yeah, yeah, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83696	I don't know if you're talking about your experience while you're in charge of the council of Sunday how this system should function? I've just said what my colleagues and many others have said here. They've been talking about a lot of cases that indicate that our very system of public procurement is hollow as Swiss cheese. Is that what we want to settle for? If you want to settle for it, I certainly won't settle for it. And we're asking that finally the state has a law just like you said, as the members of the European Union have. They do, but they have laws that are very much based on the principle of transparency, on the principle of openness and accessibility. This is the lack of our legislative regulation, and therefore we need our legislative activity in this, with the acquis of the European Union. They also have problems in the European Union regarding fraud, but far less than we have. So let's at least do what we can do, and let's not talk about how happy we are with something. And everyone knows a lot of cases of such or similar abuse. And otherwise I send everything I get to the attorney general, Mr. Bajic. Well, look how much I sent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83697	Okay. The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83698	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Commission. Of course I'll at first look back on this report that's ahead of us. I'd say this is a well-structured report. It shows, among other things, that the commission is doing its job well. He's working under the Public Procurement Act. After all, which, based on which it was built. However, we can see from that report that the data is relatively much acceptable. Nine thousand 586 competitions were announced. Of which, the State Commission received 746 complaints, and these relate to 459 different contracting entities. So these are relatively small percentages, 7.78, only 4.8% of the different orderlies. Of the 748 cases solved, 359 cases or 48.2% were adopted. These are data that are very easy to read from this report, and they certainly indicate that this is a relatively small number of complaints. But I'm very concerned about this discussion that's been going on for the second year in a row in this, this High House where we all agree there are irregularities and there's at least a hint of corruption and no one is doing anything. So we can analyze it a little bit. So you're getting it. We have a public competition, a competition by call, we all know what it is,... take part in competition publishing processes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There has been talk that and often large procurements can be split into smaller ones, 200 to 200 thousand each, and of course there is a kind of great danger that they can possibly negotiate. However, what I would say is that this public competition in these appeal proceedings is not so controversial because there are often times the purely formal errors that have been made. There's also a violation of legality, of course, but it's still smaller and occasional. When it comes to some secret procedures, I absolutely agree that there are virtually no secrets. I don't think we can talk about what we want to do in secret or hide information, and if we're talking about interceptors. Well, we all know who the interceptors are. It can be that one time. After that, there are no more secrets for interceptors. Or if we get a threat, etc., etc. I'm afraid it's not a good approach to work. However, I am more concerned about this direct negotiation that has taken up a lot of space among other things and in this report, where, among other things, it is mentioned that there is such direct bargaining in European countries, which is true. However, it is mentioned here in this report that there are certainly such examples in Croatia. So such items, objects of this kind never appear before the State Commission, because there is no legal protection in them. They shall be obtained indirectly and subsequently from the media or from the findings of the State Audit Office. There is no exact information on the number of such procedures, so it can only be guessed. Of course, we can also talk about a final consideration of such actions that are certainly not good. However, when it comes to direct bargaining, then we must be aware of the laws that have arisen and how to implement direct deals, of course a contract is concluded, is published in "The People's Journal", and now the question of who reads it, who doesn't read it, probably those who may even read it, those who would complain about direct bargaining often have a promised second job and do not complain. However, we would be interested here in the Assembly if we could in any way obtain such information as to how many of these contracts are contracted directly and what is the total amount of contracts. There has been a lot of talk here about the annexes of the contract, which often refers in the same way as the very elegant solution and the possibility of corruption so far. The original project has one range of jobs, and then either by additional works or annexes, the rest of the jobs are solved. I would refer here to another problem mentioned relatively little, and that's the problem that competitions are being announced at the end of the year and it's on the eve of Christmas. Whoever arrives alive if a serious firm is in that holiday mood, for example, in the shortest possible time, and thus usually those deadlines, prepare complete documentation. Unless it was pre-arranged, who would do such a job. It's the same when we talk about liability for the annulment of proceedings. Well, of course, responsibility can be easily determined, it's not a problem, often it's a formal nature because oftentimes the heads of smaller municipalities don't have well-teamed people, so maybe they make mistakes in announcing the competition. However, often we can say whether the audits carried out regularly every year and at the beginning of each year indicate failures. But does he have any responsibilities? We all know he doesn't. However, I would say one important thing here. I'm sure you can't even... to transfer to the Public Procurement Control Commission or the Agency which was referred to in the competition, and even if it is, let us be open to the investor or to the participants of the public competition, it is already all the responsibility of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it's the law that allows for such failures. If that's the law, I hear comments, so you'll get a chance to come back later. But the law ultimately also allows for a public tendering procedure, and a direct, direct contract. However, we all seem to agree that there are irregularities but that there is no way to come to our benches here certain amendments to the Public Procurement Act proposed by the Government would ultimately support the parliamentary majority then there would be no such remarks. Surely even the viewers who are watching us at this point are listening to it already I don't know, I say, I was also discussing it last year and I'm discussing it this year, but it's certainly not clear to them what we're talking about, always the same thing, and there's no movement. And let this Croatian Parliament indeed draw some conclusion at the end of the government to refer to a regular procedure or an emergency procedure, certainly it would be even better to amend the Public Procurement Act where any such irregularities could easily be removed in advance. Let us compare freely with EU legislation and we will easily come to a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83699	Thank you. A few replicas. First, respected representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83700	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Among other things, dear fellow Sabati spoke of direct investment and legal protection. I fully agree with you, Comrade Sabati, what you said. However, I will tell you one example that happens today in the Raša River valley, the bridge on the river Rijeka – Pula has been damaged for more than 3 months. And it was only today that the rescue of that bridge began. However, I believe that in such situations where there is no other solution that it should act spotlessly without a public tender that Croatian roads have such opportunities in such situations because it simply cannot be tolerated that a bridge on the main road of Rijeka – Pula is not in operation for 3 months. And that is why this part of direct bargaining must be so legally protected and transparent in which examples can then be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83701	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Sabbath.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83702	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, of course, I don't rule out the possibility of direct bargaining, so we all know it's often necessary, but it's easy to define what and in what way and under what conditions and under which criteria it can be treated as original bargaining. There is no doubt that such accidents fall into that category. But I repeat under such exceptions, actually exceptions often become a rule and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83703	Second replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83704	A fellow Sabati mentioned a direct settlement and I think it would be good for his remark that it would not be bad for the report, from the report to be seen in the percentages of it. That's what I'm saying for a series of misunderstandings, one of them is connected to the City of Zagreb, so we heard here today that he's one of the biggest offenders of public procurement laws, which is not true. All 0.1% of what the city contracted were direct deals, and therefore this is not the correct fact that the City of Zagreb is one of the biggest offenders. That may be why these percentages matter. The normal thing about direct bargaining today we also heard some examples such as the Vučevica knot on the Split-Zagreb highway where it was contracted directly without a direct contract work of 70 million kuna due to the speed of urgency, and that urgency will probably be 10 years from now when another infrastructure is built.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83705	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83706	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, of course, I'm aware that it would be easier for all of us to talk if we had exact indicators here, how many of these are public procurement procedures where direct contracts get jobs. The analysis would give safe and financially determined indicators. But here and in the report, I read it, and I'm going to do it one more time, to say it like this. That cases of such species never appear before the State Commission because there is no legal protection in Istria, they are obtained indirectly and subsequently from the media or the findings of the State Audit Office. I'm just saying that the state commission just doesn't have that data and it can't give us the full analysis that we're kind of looking forward to here through our debate, but there are other ways. There's a state audit, the State Audit Office, there's a Competition Agency, but I'm saying the law is crucial.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83707	Thank you. And the third replica, the esteemed representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83708	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a fellow Sabbath with you I fully agree. The State Commission for Public Procurement Control made this report quality, I believe the State Commission is also its business in public procurement control, at least on the job they got, that they did it in quality. However, the state commission is actually a shoulder to cry on, they practically can't do anything. I can't even report anyone, I can't sanction anyone, they're just acting the same as they are at the end of the year, the state review when their report comes to us, and when we discuss their report, there's not a single application, at least it's the one that's 5O thousand kunas for breaking the Public Procurement Act and they're practically on the shoulder to cry where the applicants are just so angry that they go to complain. Those who think a little more about their future work will never complain because they know that in this system in this way how it works when there are no sanctions, they will certainly never get a job from either the city or from the county or anyone else because they complained, and of course they will not get a job in another competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83709	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83710	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, when we talked about this State Commission report, I repeat once again that it was written well, but some of the findings here are very bravely stated, very bravely written. For example, this direct agreement in one part is mentioned against this most difficult form of illegality in public procurement, so if we look at page 30 where it is mentioned where there is never, in principle, legal protection in the form of an appeal procedure which... list three large groups of procedures in that case. [[You don't understand.]] So what he's trying to say is that the state commission is really very brave here, and that's good. Let's just give what it says here a little bit, and let's try to change that with the amendments to the Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83711	Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83712	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So I must say that this is one of the better reports that we received in the parliamentary debate, and in this respect it is quite certain that the whole series of data, fact and evaluations and possible proposals that are made here in this report are actually commendable and can serve well for further work and for the Croatian Parliament on the legislative plan. But there's one big flaw. We are discussing this report from the beginning of 2007 for 2005, and by law we should have a report each year for work and we should now discuss the 2006 report or prepare for such a debate for 2006 and not 2005. Secondly, what I would like to say is that, in fact, it should be remembered what meaning and function is at all if it is to interpret the Public Procurement Act in that way. Of course, we must remind, however, that this law needs to ensure the free movement of goods, labour and capital on our part of the market. That it is necessary at the same time to prevent the abuse of the monopoly position and of course for the purposes of achieving each monopoly if this is possible with the Competition Protection Agency, to ensure equal market position for entrepreneurs in certain jobs and, of course, because of these objectives that need to be achieved, this is one of the important laws which is a means of combating bribery and corruption for a simple reason, because it is necessary to ensure full public and full insight into all matters, with the possibility that this public notices or anyone in the process notices that a certain law has been violated, that it is practically possible to initiate the protection of law first before the Commission, and then later and before the administrative court. And in this context, it should be said that there are a number of things to point out other than these issues that should be discussed, which is already mentioned by the Commission itself, or the Commission itself, in its report. First, it is unacceptable for the Public Procurement Act to be played in one way or another, as among other things the breaking of transactions to be worth less than 200 thousand kunas, which is a conscious law from the contracting authorities, but is an even bigger problem when representatives of the government, together with the Croatian Parliament, create legal conditions to play the Public Procurement Act or try to create. We had a case that was tied to the halls, tied to the handball championship, the world handball championship, and we pulled him out of the procedure, and that's good. That's good. That question should be resolved, but not in the way it was offered. However, I ask the question, we will today have a debate and adoption tomorrow probably a proposal for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a trade and transport integration project, etc. In what sentence is the assumption that a public procurement law is actually being played twice. For the first time, it is said, among other things, under and, and on page 27 that the participation of state-owned enterprises would not actually be able to participate if the Bank so established, of course if they are not fully financial and legally independent and operate according to the laws. And how it will be fully legal and financially independent when they are led by a board of directors or a member of a board of directors, a supervisory pardon, as a rule, by a representative of the ministry and authorities. Therefore, there is a very clear limit. Secondly, here, among other things, it is envisaged that it can be directly negotiated for goods worth less than 80,000 euros which is several times more than those 200 thousand kunas that our Law allows them to talk about other additional restrictions, i.e. opportunities that open up the possibility of direct negotiations. Now what's the point? The point is that if we ratify this agreement, that is, if we ratify it in our legal capacity, according to our Constitution, it becomes a legal document above domestic legislation and it will apply, rather than the Public Procurement Act. Therefore, these issues simply have to be opened and must finally be resolved for one very important reason and for a formal legal procedure since it is announced that a brand new Public Procurement Act should be adopted in the first quarter of this year. And starting from this basic assumption that I wanted to say a few things about, I have to say that I want to talk, among other things, about these very issues that are open as legal voids, legal indetermination or misunderstandings that allow for different interpretations. So let's start with someone who doesn't seem the most significant at first sight, but the question is, let's say, protection of rights from the Commission, or before the court itself. In the second instance, the Commission resolves this issue, and at the same time if any of the parties are determined to conduct an administrative dispute because the administrative procedure is applied before the national authorities and before the Commission itself, the Commission is not a party to the proceedings but, on behalf of someone else, it is actually before the Administrative Court. Secondly, the Commission itself finds that, in most cases, the Administrative Court is actually making a decision that is related to the protection of legality which returns to the re-treatment of the administrative procedure, and does not measurely resolve this issue, and it is quite clear here that it is impossible that the issue of re-treatment remains here, and this can go indefinitely for a simple reason, and this is not only because the work will be done in the meantime, but it is the problem that it is the other party that has potentially suffered damage while there is no justice, it cannot go to a regular case to compensate for damages. And therefore, I support the position of my colleagues from the Commission that, in the next amendment to the Public Procurement Act, but probably also the Law governing the court's area to settle this matter first, the second one should be regulated in a way that the courts, the Administrative Court, resolves the matter in a measure and remains one specific question without any particular question whether there were disputes in this segment before the Constitutional Court concerning a constitutional suit for the protection of the Constitution of guaranteed rights relating to an equal position on the market. I think we'll probably have that question on the agenda soon, and we'll have to discuss it somehow. Of course, this requires an amendment and addition as colleagues propose to amend and supplement the existing Public Procurement Act, but in particular an additional issue is being raised in this segment which the Commission has in a fine way signalled by taking care to protect both the Government and the Parliament, which is... the exceptions to this Regulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear that this is about the rights of operators on the market and that the Government would not be able to resolve it as an implementing act of the law. We have to regulate this as exceptions by law and by law exactly when it is believed that the conditions laid down are met by law so that the rule of exception can be applied. Of course around the regulation there, there remains actually a question of the very procedure that needs to be arranged how and how to achieve this exception. Of course, here is mentioned among other things that there are frequent abuses of law... due to the lack of, among other things, reading a series of data, elements, statistics, etc. On the basis of which it could be prepared and monitored, but if it does not have state bodies then the nature of things raises the question that the procedure is being extended because, in fact, the state body to which it complains, such as our Commission, when it wants to solve it, must receive certain information, calls on the parties in the process to deliver documents and data which they must ask for how they come in order to actually satisfy the request. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, this makes it difficult for the process and we must legislate by law which minimum records must be kept, which documents must be attached in this procedure which must be relevant documents in order to actually be dealt with accordingly. It is especially a question related to the question of the so-called direct contracts and in such a situation must be clearly prescribed the possibility of a direct contract, it must not always be related to a minimum amount under which it can be agreed under the law, it may also be in specific cases when it comes to such a service which is difficult to be valued and with more aspects or more participants on the market, but what cannot be that the law does not require the public and control of such procurement and should also be notified to the Commission, as well as the possibility that, in the case of direct procurement, the possibility of an appeal procedure should be opened before the Commission itself and, of course, the protection of the rights of those others who, in that direct acquisition of the loss of a job or obtaining the inability of the opposite of the law or even more precisely because the client of the transaction is eligible for someone in that procedure, of course and then it is difficult to eliminate the question of whether it is related to the possible issue of bribes or corruption, etc. In this respect, it is most interesting that the issue of public affairs that goes through public procurement or through direct contracts will need to be tightened, depending on what their value is when it comes to the implementation of the Law on the Communist Economy in all its segments. And that is what the Commission rightly warns. This should be tightened, the more the team in this segment is also a lack of not only education but also the expertise of the staff who implement this law for a simple reason because all units of local and regional self-government are unable to provide enough quality personnel to solve this part, since the structure of the population they have in their area is a beautiful Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83713	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83714	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable President of the State Commission for Public Procurement Control, colleagues and colleagues. Public procurement procedures should ensure that the budget money for goods and services is used in a transparent manner, as well as to contribute to the reduction of our country's corruption index. It should be pointed out immediately that almost all of the authorities of the state administration or the judicial authorities, that this particular body, the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure, is therefore, in this segment, the appeal procedure, the observed complaints in such a large percentage, not only in such a large percentage, but in one of the highest percentages of the observed complaints. Thus, in 2005, it became a record for established irregularities in public procurement procedures, which, as a result, saves the very process, a high procedure of respected complaints. This amounted to 48.02% for 2005 which was still an increase compared to 2004 when we had this percentage of complaints received before this State Commission as a percentage of 47.3%. It is also necessary to immediately mention what people are drawing attention to, the people of the State Commission headed by the head of the head, that exactly a significant part of legal protection in the form of an appeal procedure does not come before this Commission at all. And so that's one dark figure that's not easy to actually see, not the spread of illegality, the irregularity of public procurement. However, public perception is very negative, and that is why we should have one standard, and that is why there has already been a speech that could predict a whole series of situations that are happening and which cannot be controlled, of course for which different reasons do not reach exactly the control of the complaint before the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The existing regulation is not good. We have recently had screening or public procurement, and the biggest warnings are precisely the biggest criticisms by the European Commission and the European Union in general are coming towards Croatia and are focusing precisely on public procurement procedures or inadequate public procurement controls. In 2005 it was noted that this law did not become more rigorous in this regard and therefore, from all the criticisms that we are currently making here and on the trail of dissatisfied citizens, to their own competitors in public procurement procedures, but was still relativised. I will mention only the provision of Article 5 which speaks precisely of those provisions, or which speaks of those situations where the provisions of the Public Procurement Act do not apply. So, this law that's been here for almost two years now, a year and a half is in effect, it's relativized, it liberalizes public procurement rather than sharpening it. Therefore, goods and services and works marked with a secret or when they require the protection of the relevant interests of the State are not obtained by public procurement. It is quite understandable when it requires the protection of the important interests of the state, but when it is marked by a secret. Almost and how each body can mark a particular procedure, not only a public procurement process, but also a secret document, then we see that there are broad possibilities that, under the veil of the secret procurement of goods or citizens, it is impossible to control and especially those competitors who would like to compete for such jobs, it is impossible to even control such purchases. Then there is a wide range of purchases from the contract in accordance with international rules, and then purchases involving the acquisition of leases, land rentals, acquisition, development and production or co-production of software materials, then arbitration and settlement services, legal services, public records services. So the question arises in the first place, why is that excluded from public procurement, and it's about large funds? Services related to employment mediation, well, that is understandable but therefore, that I am not quoting that law now, he has opened up broad opportunities when the Public Procurement Act is not applicable. I don't think that's good. Here's an example today of how cars were purchased in the MUP for 9.3 million kuna and how hard it is now to control whether it really is such a slave which, it would not have been subject to this law since such purchase was marked as a secret. Or does that require the important interests of the state? So, in any case, it's precisely because of the normative that's been set up like this but even more difficult because of the extensive interpretation of such a law. We should, perhaps, be polite to interpret this very kind of law very, very restrictively. And those inconceivable, that rubber norm, those norms that are not precise enough, which are too abstract, perhaps in a desire to cover as many situations as possible, and then, on a specific case, avoid exactly the application of specific cases, should react to the need and the amendment of the law, precisely to comply with standards in this area of the European Union. What happens more often in practice, and this is more used by a number of local self-government units, there were speeches, where certain construction lobbys, where local self-governments always appear in certain units, or jobs always get the same. The answer in controlling such purchases is that these bidders were the cheapest. And when we see little about what kind of bidders are involved, that they usually don't have that basic operation, they don't have basic machines, they're mostly used by cooperatives. They are used by cooperatives, states or units of local self-government to give them jobs and these cooperatives do not get paid and are paid and not only regularly but even in advance. And these cooperatives don't get paid, so they become social cases despite being employed. Then the state must react in various other ways and contribute to such families of such cooperatives. And then the question arises what is ultimately cheaper? Is it, that is, a unique conclusion is being imposed and one possible conclusion is that it seems to be very cheap for the country in the end to be very, very expensive? Croatia is also referred to as the Constitution of the social state. Even through this segment and in public procurement, it must be kept to account for which it is, and thus could be regulated in law. It is something that the law suffers, rather than leave to individual bodies to then put together a "tender" according to one's own intentions. It's a matter of public procurement, and it's something the law should be taxing. This bidder, how many people do they hire? How does he pay them? These are references that should be relevant for such a person to compete in the tasks given to him by the State or the unit of local self-government. Anyway, when it comes to public money. And when he's private, when he's got his own company, then let's make him the most expensive or cheapest. It doesn't matter then. So when it comes to the availability of taxpayers' money, then this moment should be almost one of the decisive ones, because eventually we'll get the highest bidder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83715	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83716	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Matesic. I was just about to tell my colleague the Law on Attorney's Office in which it stands to adopt a tariff on rewards and fees for the work of a lawyer, very precisely determines every legal shop, and unlike other activities, one who wants a lawyer based on choice precisely on trust. Therefore, in any subsequent amendments and additions, the recruitment of a lawyer should not be subject to the selection of a lawyer by virtue of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Because exactly the relationship of trust is most important, why this lawyer? And every legal store, every legal job, every expense, the cost is just as precise as the law. Let's not touch what was provided in the last system always one secure protection of citizens and it was a lawyer, alone, alone with the law and regulations against any system.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83717	... Madam representative, here's your answer. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83718	Thank you very much. But I must point out that precisely these services of arbitration and calming and public-booking services, of course, which all have their own tariff for the first time entered or for the first time were excluded from the public procurement of the 2005 amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83719	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It's Mr. Agent Ante Markov's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83720	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Club, I spoke precisely about this subject, and in this individual debate I simply want to look a little closer to certain processes or a particular topic which is within the framework of public procurement and which is not until the end or is not precisely clarified. In other words, the colleague here has now asked the question, which would be different when it comes to a private-owned company and a state-owned company when it comes to competition and responsible business of creating a new value regardless of the ownership structure. Which is why and why ownership content should be dominant to the extent that in a position where you have a company that is state-owned that the public procurement or business arrangement does not take place in accordance with business morality, ethics and the goal of contributing as much to the creation of a new value as it simply must be so publicised, so normised that it simply expresses doubts. I think we have two levels in public procurement. First, one is the level of central government and local self-government, and another is the level of public procurement of those companies that are mostly owned by a state or a unit of local self-government or fully owned. I think that the level of the central government and the level of local authorities really need and really need to strengthen the legal norms of the way in which the procurement is handled not only at the lower level of control when the process is completed, so there is a process of appeal or not, but also at the very beginning by prescribing the exact level of how this competition should look. And perhaps, and perhaps with respect to some experience in central government and centralisation of state-level procurement, at the Ministry level, at the level of one that can give efficiency as a result of that centralised. Today, it is clear and well known that the market reacts marketically. What does that mean? If you are looking for large quantities of goods on one market, if your call is made publicly to all those who are engaged and who produce the goods you want to buy, then the larger quantity absolutely implies better conditions, higher price, higher quality financing conditions. So a better game in the end. Unconnected, unrelated to who's the client. Therefore, centralisation of the public procurement system in the central state, even when it comes to local self-government because it stems from the normal need for the mayor, the mayor to acquire something cheaper. Of course, these legal assumptions exist so that it wouldn't happen. But when it comes to the central state, I think some ministries can do a lot to level the criteria. Nobody likes centralization, so I won't even mention it anymore, but mostly with such a model of supply of goods and services in which we will make a new benefit that will result. I won't even suspect that such a system of procurement is designed to be easily controlled from one place. It's just the nature of things. I don't even want to suspect that there are people in the public administration who might not be answering or liking it in some way. However, all experiences speak, and the fact is that today in the world about $3 billion is about public procurement. In America, 40% of the budget refers to public procurement. In Croatia, according to estimates if 35 billion kuna are accurate or about 19.5% of gross social product. That's a lot of money, we'll agree. It applies publicly to all levels. Therefore, if this level of central state and local self-government really were to be determined by the relevant regulations that from the very beginning would be prescribed in exactly what way it means that we go around what our colleagues and colleagues have been saying to those great monopolies who have related daughters or clusters and end up competing in one way and if 10 bidders all have the same outcome, you know. That hat is the same at the end, the name and last name is the same in all 10, and they're competing. And that's what there is. But it doesn't matter who's competing, it doesn't matter if they're connected persons, it doesn't matter if they're clustered societies, so it doesn't matter if they're ultimately public, public service, whether they're even monopolies. If they offer quality and at best prices. Therefore, if we focus in this way on the central state and local self-government, and if we so find that the new law should be complemented with the behaviour procedure and with certain unification of the procurement system, even if it is a central state, at local self-government level, I do not know how much such measures and actions can be prescribed in view of the sensitivity of local self-government in the process that can be violated by the Convention on Local Self-Government. But at the central state level, I think it is possible and that good results could be achieved when it comes to companies that are largely or largely owned by the state. Well, there I think there must be one principle of business. Namely, what does it matter who owns a company where there is a manager who is not a politician manager but who is a manager who knows and does his job, fights for business success, wants business results and in nature does not care who owns it. He's interested in the premium, he wants to know if he's made a good profit and whether the people who work in his company are satisfied. And these standards need to be regulated in other ways than the central state by the regulations resulting from the jurisdiction of this law. I think, because you see, you have an example of England. In England last year, a commission, state-owned, also received a commission of only three or two, two complaints. So the whole of Britain got two, three complaints. Why? Well, because the taxes are due if they want to, if you're complaining about it so much that it's not worth it. And now it could come to the conclusion that everything there is super-functioning and that there is no problem. Well, of course it's not like that. But there's still a tradition where there's a game that doesn't get sick from these initial diseases that we have today and that there's been tough rules in that game. And of course there's less deviation. It's probably going to be a similar situation here in 50 years, or we hope. But the fact is that problems with public procurement in these and those countries begin either after the war or during the aftermath of major disasters. And exactly New Orleans is an example after the disaster that took place with President Bush's regulation has lifted very hard principles in which the supply of goods and services is done and has made it easier for the local population to return to normal life as soon as possible. The consequences of that are exactly the worst. It failed in its primary intention to fix the standard and improve living conditions in New Orleans, and corruption prevailed, which means it was just waiting for a small door to open and come out and simply infect that space. Therefore, there is always an opportunity for such movements in these extreme and unusual events. And she needs to be shut down in some way. But on the current occasions in which Croatia is located, I think we should share the responsibility of the central state, local self-government as one part of the economy and companies dealing with the economy, whether communal or this, or that, which are owned or mostly owned by the state. And their way of handling public procurement should be separated from this second part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83721	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83722	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, my colleague Markov talked about relations, about a lot of complex relationships between state-owned companies and private companies. Most companies in our country are private, privatized, stock companies or so, so that both states and cities and municipalities are forced to want or not to cooperate with them, we have to because others are not happy, right, that's what we expect. However, here I cannot help but point out an example of such abuse that we have been working on all last summer. These are the Coning Group companies which, where we have proven that countless non-transparent contracts, forged documents, receipts of fake tenders, competitions without documentation, tender documentation, etc. But given the fact that it was concluded with the State Department whose head was the owner of these companies. It was class, it wasn't class, it wasn't for almost a year because he turned it in. So you really need to be careful. And what we expect, and that's what we all expect the State's Attorney's Office to react. For a year, it was probably enough, enough to study this material and finally get the State's Attorney's office to do the job we expect it to do and the rest will be more careful. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83723	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83724	Thank you very much. I don't know how much this was about my exposure. I was still on behalf of the HSS club very clearly saying that there is always a difference between good and correct work and under quotes of clean work that is papered clean. But we have another dilemma that you've only in principle opened, which is the relationship of private and public, or so on. a famous private-public partnership. That part of the job as far as the game is concerned, you'll probably all agree on it is not yet the precise rules. Well, when it comes to public procurement. Therefore, the public-private partnership almost has no politician, not a single mayor or mayor who will not talk with praise about a private-public partnership. But right in that segment, as a novelty that we have introduced into our legal and everyday life, there are certain dangers lurking again. And if we don't close them in time, if we don't standardize a private-public partnership in terms of behaviour, in terms of what, which it means, and finally if you want to calculate in terms of whether it's good in every variant and in every position, because the private public partnership you know has specific areas that correspond to such a form of community between private and public.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83725	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mr. Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83726	Thank you very much. Well, in principle, I agree with Mr. Markov, but in my opinion, he is dealing with another problem where this commission and this report don't mention at all, and that's good, because if this commission had the strength to share those appeals that were being discussed in political and economic, then we would actually have the right state of affairs. I assure myself from my experience that a competition that has both a head and a tail, and which can practically not be cleaner if it is wished by a powerful man he knocks it down, simply the commission says that some paper is missing and the story is repeated. It's early society cancer and it needs to be negotiated publicly and fought against. Public procurement doesn't have rules because it's the cheapest, because it's the most expensive. The economic calculations say that if we stick to the inert and accept in public procurement the most favourable offer at the lower price and the conditions that have been said, I assure you there is an annex, complementing uncomputed works, left and right. But if we have well assessed the bidder and we who determine and accept the job, the key in our hands, by a higher price, justify it well in a way that it is the most favourable offer for us because we no longer have the risk of taking and getting the finished product, then the commission must accept it. But they're not usually the cheapest price, we cancel the competition, we start from the new one. If that rule remains as such and there is no understanding of the actual situation on the ground, then we are in a sphere that is difficult to understand. I say it from my own experience, although my competitions don't fall, they don't usually fall, but all because the companies that compete are solvable, they know their jobs, they have good references and then they don't jump into each other's stomachs. Where two jumps and the stomach is the end of the story. I think that's the way to talk about it, not this little bit of dust that gets up and gets to our commission, so she cleans it up a little bit and cleans it up a little bit, so whether it's good or not, actually the real state of things stays somewhere in that other zone that we don't see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83727	Thank you. Mr. Markov's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83728	Thank you very much. My colleague Kolar, I may have gone a little far from the report on this subject, but I did not step away from the matter I was talking about, about the content of the problem that is very clear. The report is also, if read in the way I think one report should be read, it was precisely in the public procurement assessment that made it clear that it should be as a help in order for this job to be better quality, more correct and even faster, I hope. So these measures, especially in the complaint procedure that they refer to a particular world, what we were talking about, I just wanted to point out with examples that maybe we should make a split between this and that purchase. First of all, to create a custom on the market, to create a practice, to create something that cannot be abolished by precedents because precedents are always dangerous. But I also said on behalf of the HSS club, and there should be precedents when it comes to protecting the Croatian economy. Then these precedents must exist because we must protect our economy as we have said others protect their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83729	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83730	Dear Vice President, the Honorable President of the State Commission. We can observe this report on the work of the State Commission in one way or another. It would not be good to verify it by saying that it solves corruption, illegality, and misuse of public money, on the other hand, to demean it and to say that there is all honey and milk. However, here you should keep in mind the following. So this is about the report of whoever the bidders were complaining about, so this report doesn't talk about public procurement at all. The public procurement is much more complete and more relevant in the State Audit report, as the State audit when it comes to the control, i.e. in the budget audit, it then looks at all public procurement procedures, including these public procurement procedures listed here in this report. If this was the only and only irregularities observed in public procurement, we should be very pleased in the Republic of Croatia. But here we are talking about procurements where public money is protected because the state commission has said either a complaint is being rejected or a selection is being cancelled or selection and public procurement cancelled. Budgetary money is therefore protected because it has either been used in accordance with a public tender or has been awarded to the contracting authority, so the budget is told that public competition should be repeated in a way that corrects the irregularities and illegalities observed during that public competition. However, much more irregularities, illegalities occur in public procurements in a segment that are not described at all in this report. Because this report only speaks of one small, small, minimal percentage of public procurement carried out in the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, we have purchases where the purchases are not carried out, because I am now asking the question when, for example, the Government opened a tender for the purchase of mobile and fixed telephony in 2007 which the Public Procurement Act had to do. There's no such thing as a supply. There's literally no such thing as procurement. And that's... No, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The service exists, but it is not, the service is not obtained in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, and then you have the situation of those who went to public procurement, for example, fixed and mobile voice telephony, then if someone complains about you then it usually falls to you for reasons that it is not clear and unequivocally defined the subject of purchase. So you can't, for example, get fixed telephony and broadband Internet. It's almost absurd to get from one fixed and another broadband internet because it's ultimately going with the same cables. But these are situations where the State Commission is likely to cancel your purchase because of the offerer's appeal. And even completely ephemeral things have three complaints about obtaining up to 20 thousand kunas which was not supposed to be a supply at all, but the client did, and then this one complained, and the State Commission was exhausting on a story of 20 thousand kuna. We have 47 purchases between 20 and 200 thousand kunas. So also not some purchases that should have earned some serious attention. And then we have these other supplies. The only thing that I would have noticed as a lack of this report is that maybe we should have gotten the reasons why the purchases were annulled because we here are mostly talking about the founding of illegalities. Officially, this could indeed be the case, however, some irregularities have been identified here because the purchases are being annulled for purely formal reasons such as, for example, that not all members of the Committee for the supply of goods and services are present at the opening of offers, so that offers are not opened in order to arrive, so you have very extensive interpretations about what the criteria are, i.e. evidence of ability. Is the balance sheet of a society what has been handed over to the tax administration or what the administration of society has adopted? So for example, you have one absurd fact that the State Commission did not respect the registration of a company printed from the Internet by the Commercial Court and certified by a public notary and these were the reasons, for example, why the purchase was invalidated. Therefore, it was necessary to separate perhaps or should separate irregularities in the procedure and some harsher violation of the rules of the law, which is why the procurement was rejected. But this is a review so one segment of procurement that was made in 2005, it's statistically like that and it's historical. What should be read from it are lessons that should certainly be incorporated into the new Public Procurement Act because it is obvious that the existing Public Procurement Act no longer meets the requirements of living in the Republic of Croatia. For example, the Public Procurement Act does not prescribe something called joint procurement. We have the law... A prescribed joint offer, but there is no joint procurement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, that three, four, five schools, a municipal enterprise, municipalities or I don't know a few public companies agree and that they jointly obtain a similar service or goods and thus lead to very serious savings of budget money. You just don't exist in this, there isn't something called multi-annual procurement today, because today some services are very difficult to get for just one budget year, or if you get them in two or more years you'll certainly be in a position to offer you a more favourable price for it. So, it's almost imperative to get into the procedure of the new Public Procurement Act as soon as possible, which should have solved all these open issues that should have come out of these complaints that we see here, from lessons, so some legal practice of the State Commission which is faced with these complaints and what we are talking about here, therefore irregularities such as annex contracts, auxiliary contracts, non-procurement procurement, etc., etc. I would certainly advocate that the Commission does so, therefore, that all the solutions it makes regardless of what their rightful word is, whether it is accepted or refused, are made available to everyone in the Republic of Croatia, so that they are necessarily published on the State Commission website. And secondly, if it is necessary to amend the law, we amend the law, but it is extremely important that all solutions are available so that those who want to learn can learn from a solution that already exists. And secondly, I think it is extremely important that the State Commission which still has a review, perhaps the best view of the functioning of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia, make some kind of manual or stop the legal practice of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia. There is too wide a possibility within the Public Procurement Act where not because someone would want to abuse the law, but because of administrative capacity, because of the extensive interpretation of the provisions, this or that may result in an irregularity in the procedure. If we had such a legal practice, so let's see what happened in history in, unfortunately, this is only a second year of work by the State Commission, it's been a third year, but now we have 3 years of experience. If we had that somewhere publicly available, I think that the contracting authorities who wish to get them the public procurement process would certainly succeed in having a greater opportunity because they would learn then, they would take off some things and not bother themselves with a public procurement process that is in any way simple. It is a very, very complex procedure if you want to make public procurement fair. So, I call on the State Commission to make publicly available this experience and knowledge that it has and certainly to access the new Public Procurement Act urgently because the current does not fit the current life, and here is one example of your procurement of telecommunications services that we all have to do through a public tender, and apparently some do not.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83731	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is Mrs. Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague who opened an interesting question, which I support. Indeed, this issue of multi-annual procurement should be resolved in some way because we often encounter the problem when it comes to the purchase of medical consumer material, then insurance, and so where each year we call competitions, and often we have problems with it, we spend time and money, and we get things that may not satisfy us. Also this joint procurement, I would say it's a good idea, but there are common procurements with us in health care when the ministry or county is getting certain things and I think there is, in order to achieve large savings. I have to say, for telecommunications, it's never occurred to me before, and I'm sure it could be, but it would be interesting if when a colleague accuses the government of not having implemented it, did the town of Koprivnica spend it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83733	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Gristle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83734	Yes, here not only can savings be achieved in multi-year purchases, but you have one problem that is very difficult to make an annual purchase that will end on 31.12. at midnight, and the next starts in 1.1. of the new year. Because when you bring in a budget, when you bring in a procurement plan, when you make a public procurement plan, if you're lucky and no one complains, you need one longer period of time until you agree on that purchase, so something that's really a regular yearly supply such as expendable material, such as telecommunications services and everything, because otherwise you're in violation. You know, if you don't end up with one here and you don't start somewhere else, first you're already in some kind of a misdemeanor. Therefore, the issue of these multi-annual purchases should indeed be resolved first. Secondly, it should be defined how to obtain an annual purchase that corresponds to the calendar year or budget year. To allow the contracting authority the opportunity and time to do so in accordance with the law in a way that the tender procedure is in time until the beginning of the year, or by the end of the calendar year. That is a big problem, because we should essentially make a budget in 6 months to get something that should be in next year by 31.12. But I hope, therefore, that this experience will be the basis for the creation of a new Public Procurement Act that will enable such acquisitions. And these purchases mean savings for budget money. And we are telecommunications fixed and mobile and widely explained the Internet acquired through a public tender. And we've done it twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83735	Thank you. We have another replica, Mr. Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83736	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, when Mršić spoke about public procurement, he mentioned one very interesting thing, and this has just shown me personally that joint public procurement of units of local self-government and companies owned by units of local self-government has reason to conduct public procurement for common matters. So what I'm trying to say is, the example works, the software, for example. For the finance units of local self-government is different from the software for the finance of a company owned by that unit of local self-government and they are simply not compatible. Tomorrow when these things align with each other, then the compatibility of the software system is practically impossible. That's one thing. On the other hand, and in public procurement, it would save a lot of money on all of this if it were to go to joint public procurement because of the increase in the number of users.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83737	Answer, Mr. Gristle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83738	In any case, we can say that at a local level where savings for local self-government units are significant but financial ones do not make some significant amount. But imagine what would happen if joint procurement were done at the government level. If, for example, not every ministry were to call a tender for private cars, but that the government was together to call the competition if it really would, perhaps then there would be savings. I guess you would, wouldn't you? Would there be savings, for example, if public companies owned by the Republic of Croatia had made joint purchases for certain services or goods? You also have telecommunications services, on the other hand you have cars. Or not to talk about software, but software makes it even more complicated because if you want to, you'd have to de facto from year to year or every other year, call for a third year when you're running out of licenses for new competitions. These are all issues that need to be regulated by the new Public Procurement Act because life has gone on. So life jumped and the Public Procurement Act was still left. First of all, he remained at the slave level. The public procurement law does not define well enough neither the provision of services, let alone these new services, technological services, something that has arisen or is practically present. And secondly, there's something called an example and a city or... You can't get it de facto at this point because you can't clearly and unequivocally describe the subject of procurement, because the subject of such procurement doesn't exist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here, I would really like this legal practice and experience to help us create a Public Procurement Act to protect public money, which would protect both the contracting authorities and the bidders and lead to the need for citizens in an efficient time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83739	Thank you. As the last of the MPs, Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83740	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the State Commission, colleagues and colleagues! One of the few or almost only objections to this report in that statistical sense is that it is really too late in front of this House. Today, in February 2007, we are talking about the 2005 Report, and I think at least halfway through next year we should have a report for the previous year, so that we can then compare it to what the State Audit Report will say and some other reports. I said it's one of the few objections to this report because it's basically divided into two parts. One is a statistical representation of the work of the State Commission. Second, although the general public procurement issues mentioned a little timidly well cover these areas. The statistics themselves in the work of the State Commission say they had a total of 801 objects or complaints in the work. And of the 9,000 586 purchases that have been published in the Republic of Croatia 746 and 7.78%, respectively, which I don't think is a large percentage and a large number. The percentage of the figure I think is too large is the number of complaints received. Almost 50% of the complaints lodged on individual tenders were adopted and therefore almost 50% of them were 295 competitions or 82.17% cancelled as a whole, so competition and selection decisions. These are the figures they still need to worry about. But on the other hand, they also encourage it because they show that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures works well, that is, to protect budget money and to protect public interest and to prevent possible machinations and abuses that individuals or groups in the public procurement process want to carry out eventually. One quite big problem that appears in practice and here in the Report of the State Commission also states the long-term length of the appeal procedure. I'm sorry, not only the appeal process, but the entire procedure from the appointment of the procurement committee to the finality of the solution for the appeal goes on average for six months. If we know that either state or local budgets are passed at the end of the year, let's say at the end of the year in the second or third months after the purchase plans are adopted, it moves with the call for tenders. If we have 6 months until the end of the procedure and even in cases where the appeal is dismissed, so where the complaint is unfounded by the end of the financial year it is simply not able to physically, time-use the available money for purchase. And many times simply because of these formal reasons and budgetary positions remain neutral. The complaint will be rejected but the position cannot be used for purpose and in some future and new legal decisions should try to influence the reduction of the overall procedures. The second part of this report, I said maybe it's a little timid, but that's why we've been making up a lot for it here in our debates, more in a way bringing an assessment of all the problems and public procurement. What I think should be emphasized and said that the Public Procurement Act itself has absolutely achieved its goal. It is, not to be misunderstood now, of course not entirely transparent and rational use of budgets. They are likely to be the absolute and ideal process that will probably never be nor will I believe that there is a country in the world where this process is absolutely correct, but I think we will agree that the Law on public procurement and the existence of the commission have also contributed to making this process much more transparent. And that spending on public budget money is still much more rational than it was before. The law on public procurement therefore regulated the area, improved the situation so far, and nevertheless affected the reduction of irregularities. In the same evaluations that have been given to us and in the Commission's report, I think that, in the case of any future legal solutions, there should be some legal or advisory service, whether within the framework of this commission or even more to strengthen it. Because I believe that there are many and probably most well-intentioned implementrs of these decisions but who because of ignorance or because of the inability to consult somewhere and seek concrete advice or clarification for their individual questions, come into the situation that their later competitions are annulled. Also, an analysis of the procurement process by phases because we only have the Commission's conduct on the basis of the complaints made or lodged by a particular interested party in the procedure itself. If any failure occurs at the beginning, this process should be interrupted at the very beginning and thus give time to investors, these public money users should therefore be in vain, not wasting time. And most of all, there were speeches here, so I'm going to be on it in one piece, they're the supplies we don't see in this report. These are purchases, so they're done by means of a direct contract, but I think they're still a minor problem. I think the biggest problem is breaking up purchases on fewer purchases so that those investments that go beyond the 200 thousand kunas can fit into the bidding phase by invitation. So to be below two, below 200 thousand kuna, then the investor has five different types of work for which he individually conducts competitions for electrical installations, construction works, roofing works. And as a rule, it's about building one house or one facility. The same situation takes place in those competitions that belong to the category where the mass and value is between 20 and 200 thousand kunas, but they break purchases, so they go to a group of up to 20 thousand kunas where there is no need to conduct the competition at all, and in such cases there is simply no one to complain about because he was not even a participant in the procurement process. He was not a participant in the competition, and he simply did not know that such procurement was taking place many times. And to bring my report to an end, I think it's actually done correctly. I also commend all cases with detailed indicators the State Commission had during 2005. I also suggest to the State Commission that we supplement or amend the Public Procurement Act in a way that protects state money even more in quality terms, with our suggestions and suggestions to the Government as well as the Government and on the basis of what we heard today during the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83741	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83742	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague I totally agree with you. And it is true and you have well noticed that the Commission has made very shy remarks on the existing law and on the conditions in which they work. That's understandable. Normally, people are afraid of how they'll survive if they're sharper and suggest more significant changes. There's supposed to be so-called. political will and give them the green light to come before us, to actually come before the government and to come before us with a proposal to amend and supplement. And you also well noticed that they need to be given more authority so they can not be shoulder to cry but also sanction certain things and report certain things. It's not just about them. That's also the problem with the State Audit, which controls public procurement in the end. So we need to give each other more power to make order and we're all talking about standing up for corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83743	Thank you. Mr. Jelkovac's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83744	Well, me and Mr. Kapraljevic actually agree on what we said, and he also confirmed that I still disagree with the causes he cited as the reason why it was written in this way in the materials. The fact is that the Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is acting under the law and it is primarily obliged to give a report on its work and it has sent it very well and very high quality to this High House. And this comment itself, I think it's more our job than theirs. They are obliged to work in a manner and according to the laws, regulations that this House will bring. And this discussion today really shows that some things should change. And it is our joint job in this direction to supplement and bring possible, and then certainly the Commission will, accordingly, also deliver its report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83745	Thank you. Final review, Commission President Goran Matesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83746	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament from your debate I would just like to make some clarifications. Late reports by the State Commission are to be read from the personnel or other problems we had in that year. The fifth year is the year we actually went out, actually in early 2006 we moved to a new space, teamed up and equipped. So the 2006 report is quite certain that you will see in the first half of this year. And that's our intention. Now we're equipped and equipped so that we've practically had an annual report a day since recently, so we're computer-monitoring all of our items so that all of our phenomena can be spotlessly read. I would say from this debate that, that's my personal conclusion, that actually for public procurement, the social climate changes, the public climate changes, the political climate changes, the public's sensitivity changes, the public's interest changes. You won't see a paper that doesn't have a few articles on public procurement every day. And it's a good climate because public procurement is being monitored on behalf of the public. On behalf of the promoter, I am pleased with your debate, remarks, suggestions and support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83747	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And I am informing the members of the Committee on Spatial Planning, environmental protection, that the Committee session will be held at 13:30, so now at the hall "Anta Starčević" 149. I'm interrupting the session. The session continues at 3 p.m. on the agenda of the proposal for a conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit a detailed report on pollution in Sisak and on the number of ecological incidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83748	Now we're going to the vote. First, the Annual report on the work of the State Commission to control the public procurement process for 2005. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure for 2005 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 88 votes for, 12 abstentions and 2 against, the proposed report was accepted. We continue with the session - - The proposal for a conclusion that is bound by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed report on air pollution in Sisak and the number of ecological incidents from the oil refinery and the adoption of measures to prevent them – the motion for the Club of Representatives of the HSS was carried out by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. You received the report at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Proposer representative, respected representative Željko Pecek will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83750	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. These days I heard an interesting comment that we can actually classify in the zone of black humor, in the season the Siscani are ahead because they don't have to spend on buying masks, it's a comment. They've actually owned masks for a long time, and they can use them on that occasion. The problem is that they actually have to wear masks and not because of carnival days, but because of their health because they're breathing masks, not disguises. Besides masks, they actually have no other option because it is more than obvious that the problem of air pollution is left to themselves and remains to organize themselves what they do naturally. The ecological association Sisak Eco Action was established on January 25th. Their motto is that air pollution affects everything and leaves its tracks everywhere and therefore they do not want to just sit and comment on how bad it is but their intention is to actively engage in the fight against mammals. They realize that through legal and any other legal battle for healthy air in the City of Sisak and a healthy mammalic environment must be fought to change the situation. The town organisation of the Croatian Peasant Party launched an action to support people suffering from cancer by organising a petition titled "and I am a witness". By signing this petition, support is given to people with cancer and to all those exposed to harmful influences in the City of Sisak, whose emissions from industrial and other plants. The aim of the action to launch the process before the competent state authorities is to compensate for people suffering from cancer and other diseases caused by the unconscious, or the ratio of contaminants to the citizens of Sisak. The aim of the action is also to launch requirements for the Government and the Parliament to remove adverse impacts on the health and lives of people in the City of Sisak and to ensure conditions for a man's life. A large number of people have so far supported their signatures by the work of cancer - related associations and wants to testify in their favor. They are supported by one silent and completely neutral witness, and these are forests in Sisak and the surrounding area. If we look at the damage to the trees that measured in 2005, the forest institute figures are inexorable. Compared to the year before the damage of all species, it increased by 13%, and the biggest increase was measured in the highest quality range, i.e. at the oak of the watermelon. He was involved in the action after all and the City of Sisad, and unfortunately, according to our assessment, only politically and populistly. A lawsuit has been filed and 11 million kuna damage is sought. How did these 11 million kunas come to the city’s headship and whether it is just as much worth the impaired health of Sishen, of course, cannot be estimated. And it is not difficult to estimate that this trial will last for years and its possible positive outcome will not radically change anything. However, Sistens are looking for conditions for normal life today, for better today and for better tomorrow for themselves and for their children. Who cares besides them, the works of the media and today we are in the Parliament? They and we at the HSS Club are interested in what he's done so far. Do we all have to prove together that Sišteni has 50% more respiratory disease and cancer than average in Croatia, or is enough reason to take emergency measures to have 50% more air pollution than everyone else in Croatia. Can we do something right now, not wait for the restoration of the refinery capacity, or the construction of ecological filters in a few months? The word "can" should be replaced by the word "must." This is bound by the fact that during 2005, 51 times the average daily concentration of sulfur dioxide was exceeded in Sisak and 63 times the sulphur hydrogen. In 2006, these excesses are significantly higher because sulfur hydrogen exceeded 100, and it is important that the excess of sulphur dioxide should not be more than 3 times during the calendar year and hydrogen sulphur over 7 times. When we add both standard excesses and benzenes, we have to realize that Sisak is on the best track to create a new brand, a brand of dangerous and stinking city because the smell of rotten eggs that he feels for years becomes the trademark of the City of Sisak. The Sishen have no time to wait for the modernisation of the INA facility, the pollution continues to persist, the health continues to suffer. For their health, no number of inspections have been made that city. Neither did the competent Ministry of Environmental Protection, and the government is completely uninterested in the numerous demands of citizens, all requests remain deaf. Nothing will, of course, take the INA lawsuit filed by the City of Sisad because it is a political decision that can actually bear fruit only in a few years when it will be too late. The worst solution is that citizens must take matters into their own hands and possibly fight public protests in the form of, for example, their health. roadblocks. The HSS believes that it is high time to include the Croatian Parliament in solving this problem because it is finally his legal obligation. As a result, we have put in the procedure the conclusion that we ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit in detail to the Parliament, stressing the detailed report on air pollution in Sisak and on the number of ecological incidents, but also the adoption of measures to prevent them. I stress that we are interested in taking measures to prevent this from happening. When it comes to the agenda as we ask, it's hard to answer. Obviously today we can't expect the radical solutions that interest us most. Will someone possibly respond if we continue at the test cells to record excesses of permitted values? Whether contaminants will pay compensation for past overruns from which, for example, could establish a foundation for treating the sick and from which additional instruments could be purchased to control air pollution in Sisak? The right move to solve the problem could have been done yesterday. Often for complex problems, there are simple solutions. In this case it is the use of oil in a refinery with a smaller amount of sulfur, but of course with a higher price of that oil. So simple and what's important is the immediate enforceable solution, there are possibilities and mechanisms because the oil refinery is actually in the hands of the state. This would only mean making a small and such high profit for the state-owned company, and much more would mean the health of Siscan and the people living in the area. Why has this not already happened and why does no one suggest it from government and competent institutions, inspections, finally and government? Is profit more important than human health? Can we do so for at least the next few months until the installation of ecological filters? Can we reduce or possibly stop processing in days when unfavourable micro-climate conditions are even more favourable to a higher concentration of harmful substances. What would a reduced oil processing of a few hours or days mean for Ina? For Ina's neglectful, for the Siscans an immeasurable lot. However, if we really wanted to, then we should have a different view of the government on the HSS initiative than the one we received with the proposal for this conclusion. The government believes that the Parliament needs to discuss air pollution from the refinery, it will inform us of the measures it took in the period 2004 to 2007. We are actually interested in the report on what the Government did not take, and it could because it was more than obvious that the air pollution situation did not change for the better, but unfortunately it changed for the worse. Of course it can be different. The HSS Club and the Sisak citizens expect it. I'm not sure this debate will give these results in a short time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83751	Thank you. Just one correction to the incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83752	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's the deal. Well, my colleague Pecek, in this case, here's an emotional debate that I'm glad you're looking after the citizens of Sisak, but not now in the pre-election year, I'll tell you why. He says this way, I apologize to the election. The city of Sisak is acting politically and populistly, precisely at the moment in the town of Sisak. If you get involved in this debate right now, right in the election year of fellow Pecek. In my debate, I'll tell you and give it to you. We're all worried about Sisak. I have spent 53 years living in that city and believe me, I may be more concerned about you, but just the time you started the debate, not in 2003, tells me that not the town of Sisak, that you've worked hard the town of Sisak has brought out, his service I mean city administration, for environmental protection, a whole series of indicators that she's been doing to the government since 2001, or not just to the government since 1997, when the pollution in the city of Sisak, I would say she's been waving and going towards what happened today.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83753	Okay. On behalf of the promoter, same as below, the respected representative Željko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83754	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ministers, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to ask my colleagues a little quieter to hear me, I don't want to make a populist explanation of what I'm about to say, but I'd like to contribute to this debate with some indicators that lately after all these discussions that we've had the opportunity to follow up on you living in Sisak live, and we who are representatives a little less from that area, but indicators that confirm that something is happening in Sisak. That something is happening in the area, throughout Sisak-Moslavina County and indicators are indicators of the Yastrebar and Croatian Forests Institute, which has been talking about the damage of trees in the area, in the whole area, and these indicators have been monitored since the year 87. I'd like to compare here the years that I find interesting, which could be very easy to compare. This is the year 98, where it says that only 3.89% of trees have been significantly damaged in the Sisak forest management area. So one small damage then at that time and the 2005 indicators that say that this damage has increased multiplely, and especially what concerns us is the damage of our most valuable type of shell oak, which is 46.1%. That means every other tree is damaged and there's no more pulsism, there's no pre-election or election stories, there's something going on there. So, yes, but in Sisak itself, everyone, all parties performed and it's normal that at times like these, when something appears, everyone is concerned about the health of Siscani. As we foresters warned that something was happening to our studies, our monitoring, nothing happened only when we noticed that there was an increase in human cancer, then something was reacting, then trying to prevent it. I say well that's it now, but I wish we'd pointed those indicators out earlier when we knew them too. In 2004, we passed the Air Protection Act, and we must act here. I, here I remember then entering the Parliament and I was talking about it and it's good that we brought it up, that we changed that old law and that we already have here for two years, a third year in progress where we can talk about these indicators and show that there have been some changes, and that's why the club of the representatives of the HSS has asked that this problem that has been reported in the Sisak area, tomorrow it might come to someone else, that it is being debated that we get the exact indicators that we are not just giving up to the population as my colleague Ivanka said, but that we really have relevant data and that we are acting on it. I just wanted to say with this information followed by the Yastrebarsky Forest Institute that it was present. Not today, that it's been there for years and that unfortunately, it wasn't a timely response until now, but here, I say only after an indication that something is happening to the disease, to people that it's been noticed, that it's then responding. And in that part, we expect your support, too, to get one complete piece of information. I believe that the lady has a minister with precise and relevant indicators and that we are also looking for a resolution ministry to make certain decisions that will help to reduce from an economic point of view certain meanings, environmental impact and environmental pollution. And I believe that's how we're going to contribute to a better and better life. And I also know that these are not just measures in forestry, in the economic sector. They're also in the water industry and others. And a set of these measures and a taste of all events should be given one more quality solution. So here's why, on behalf of the promoter, I wanted to supplement with these indicators, and I think in the further debate, it would be good to come to a common position, not to argue politically, because it's obvious that something happened there that's not good. And that the impact on nature is great. And now you're waving that nothing happened. If we compare the Air Protection Act, if we see how many times it's been reacting negatively in nature, if we don't accept the indicators that the Forest Institute has been showing that there's something negative going on there for 10 years, then I don't know what it is. Here, so much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83755	Thank you. Minister Marina Matulović Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83756	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to explain very briefly the opinion of our government and the proposal to discuss this point. We are certainly interested in discussing it. But to limit it to the term of office of this government. Because listening to Mr. Representative who spoke and asked for answers to certain questions, I actually had the feeling that I was at the end of 2003 and that I should because I should have answered those questions then. The largest air pollution in Sisak was in '99. 2002 and 2003 This government, when it came and took responsibility for the situation in Croatia, immediately recorded the situation in Sisak, found that neither the government nor the Parliament had held a single debate before that. There was no talk at all about air pollution in Sisak even though at the time the biggest excises were happening. Therefore, we have launched as Mr. Ledinski has passed the Air Protection Act, brought 16 sublegal acts but is also Government 12. Seven. In 2004, she discussed air pollution in Sisak and brought and tasked the INA with creating a programme of measures that they needed to ensure clean production. Of course INA did her job. We weren't happy with him. We created a new team that worked on that program and that program was adopted in 2005. It is certain that this government is very interested in the citizens of Sisak having clean air and I am sure that we will do it the same way and the floor, solve it the same way as we do waste management and as we have solved and solved what has not been solved for 50 years. Therefore, there is one more thing to say here, which is that in 2004, an automatic measurement station was set up in Caprak because there is an important difference in air between the centre of Sisak and the village of Caprak which is located next to the refinery and along the ironworks. So we put it in the worst place, so in Caprak we set up that measurement station where it is automatically recorded and on the display it reads constantly what the situation is in the air. And, of course, with all of our activities that have been taken, our citizens have also been sensitized and sought what is theirs. Clean air, clean environment, and you believe we'll do everything we can to make it happen. Therefore, our government proposes that this agenda be discussed, that all air quality reports be given in the Sisak area. Especially in the area of Caprak, but we don't think it should go back to history, because if we go back to history we should go back to 1926 when the refinery was actually made and all those reconstructions that were happening in the meantime. And let's talk about the government's mandate and what this government has done since the beginning of 2004, and believe that there's a lot of what's been done, which has never been started before, let alone been done until the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83757	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83758	Your Honor, Madam Minister! I have to correct your inaccuracies about the fact that a serious problem-solving job started by this government, that it wasn't done before. It's completely incorrect, Madam Minister. That's completely incorrect. It's just the fact that things are like this. In 2000, INA was released from the price-determining dictatorship and from one bad one, no company turned into one profitable company that in the contract we made with MOLOM committed itself, committed itself to modernising capacities and one and other refineries. In 2003 not only were all projects completed, not only were additional money provided and on which money is now being paid, credit money, intercal interest. Not only were all the projects completed and you didn't do anything, but the fact that 2006 was the end of 2006... The year it was all meant to be done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, you missed Madam Minister in the term of office of this government to do what had to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83759	Thank you. Peace, please. I've seen in the Turkish Parliament there's a big bell with a hammer big and that, that president. Parliament, which was 19 years of age, has been using that bell, and that, yes, yes, that hat. Just let me, when the debate is opened, the first rapporteur of the Committee and when a debate is opened and a club is held when the debate is opened, then you as a proposer can do it again. Is the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection? The president of the Committee, the representative of the Committee? Vice President, Honorable Representative Shirac. [[Intruder: Vice President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83760	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On the 50th session of today, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a conclusion, which obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed report on air pollution in Sisak and numerous ecological incidents from the oil refinery and to adopt measures to prevent them from being delivered to the Croatian Parliament by the Croatian Peasant Party's Club by an act of 24 January 2007. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed conclusion as a parent working body. The Committee held a written opinion by the Government of the Republic of Croatia stating that the Croatian Parliament should discuss air pollution from the Sisak refinery and that the Croatian Parliament will report from the measures it took in the period 2004 to 2007. So in her term of office. In its opening statement, the president explained briefly the proposed conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party which would oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed report on air pollution in Sisak and the number of ecological incidents from the oil refinery and the adoption of measures to prevent them. The Committee discussed that without a full report and an assessment of the state of the competent authorities, it was difficult to carry out a quality debate on the issue of air pollution in Sisak. The questionable and insufficiently reasoned conclusion was given in the light of the proposal that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should prevent the poisoning of the citizens of Sisak and the surrounding areas in a way that shuts down the plants of the plant in Sisak that are the cause of this poor situation. The view is expressed that it is important to address the issue of air pollution in Sisak and the engagement of local and regional self-government units and that, in this sense, for the purposes of the debate in the Croatian Parliament on the issue, a report of the city of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County on the activities and measures taken within the framework of their jurisdiction should be requested. In the discussion, the Committee president pointed out that the issue of pollution in Sisak is a complex problem that requires a long-term different approach to this issue. It has been pointed out that the Committee should fully consider the existing problem of air pollution in Sisak by asking the competent authorities for a full assessment of the situation and reports and opening a dialogue with NGOs. In this respect, the Committee President proposed that the Committee should ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit for the purposes of the debate an indication of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship on the economic strategy and programme related to existing technologies. Their impact on the environment and the modernisation plan and the report by the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia on the inspections carried out with regard to environmental protection. The majority of the members of the Committee consider that a sufficient report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proportions they took in the period 2004-2007 and the proposal for a final vote was not accepted. Two were in, and five was against it. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions: It supports the debate in the Croatian Parliament on air pollution from the Sisak refinery. Secondly, it is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a full report to the Croatian Parliament on the measures taken during the period 2004-2007. The City of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County are in charge of discussing the need to submit a report on the activities and measures undertaken under their jurisdiction. The Committee president expressed his opinion and pointed out that he was opposed to that conclusion because the Committee did not have a measuring assessment of the situation and of the competent authorities' reports on this issue and, consequently, it is not acceptable to indicate as a parent working body only this conclusion on this extremely important issue. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83761	Oh, yeah, I thought that... I'm opening a debate. PGS, NDS, SBH, respected representative Zeljko Pavlic. Then when the debate opens and the first one talks, that's what the Rules of Procedure is like, right? That's what the Rules of Procedure is like. When the debate is opened, the proposer can always step forward 10 minutes at a time. And in the opening statement, he or she has a group of up to 30 minutes. Only after the debate can he perform again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83762	There's a little difference in the name and last name, so then... All right, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President and Minister Proposer here, allow me, on behalf of the PGS Club, the MDS, the SBH, to engage in this debate immediately so that we can give support to the promoter with our intention to discuss this issue in the Croatian Parliament. And I think it is good to have one topic from a particular region of our region specifically from Sisak-Moslavina County to be the subject of debate in the Croatian Parliament. Last week it was a debate on textiles and clothing in northwestern Croatia. Today is a topic that speaks about health and health problems, so in Sisak-Moslavina County and neighbouring counties. We are pleased, therefore, that the government has also accepted this conclusion and that we will soon have a real debate on this topic here in the Croatian Parliament. So I think it's the right place to talk about it. I think it is very important, therefore, that we talk in this House about health problems because for us, for example, in our club, we would put it first, health and health problems, both throughout Croatia and some of our regions. Because unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, we record a growing number of diseases and diseases that have died year after year. We're recording an increasing number of patients who died of cancer of certain species, so cancers, etc. So the figures tell us that last year there were the number of dead men, so there were 7 thousand 308, and there were 21% of those who died of lung and bronchial cancer, so lung cancer and parts of that respiratory system, which is again related to this problem. In women of 4000 979, the largest number of women, 24% died of breast cancer. Just today, there is also a survey in "Globus" published by the School of National Health "Andrija Stampar" hrvatska, using data specified by our health institutions, from the Croatian Institute of Public Health, Cancer Register etc. where we are told by certain counties where the highest frequency is, where the highest number of deaths is from certain diseases. And it's very interesting, therefore, as far as Sisak-Moslavina County is concerned, that 2,000 and 600 people die in that county annually, and the largest number in that county therefore dies of lung cancer and breast cancer in the first place. While 5 of these causes are in fifth place, they are chronic lower respiratory disease. So the issue of asthma and similar diseases. So we think there are certain confirmations that we can claim that because of this pollution, there are more diseases here in Sisak-Moslavina County. But I'm saying the basis of this should be one real test that would confirm it. We therefore propose to discuss this in this Croatian Assembly and because in the past month, significant environmental incidents and incidents have occurred precisely in Sisak and the surrounding area, which indicate that the situation has not changed significantly and that it should be very effective to change it. In fact, Sisak is known to be the city of the heavy industry, so that we also have ironworks, that we have refineries. Sisak is also a city burner of dangerous waste. Dangerous waste is processed in as many as 3 buildings, Sisak oil refineries, Erbos and Sisak Termoelectrica, where there is no special combustion plant, but the waste oils are mixed with fuel for power plants and burned. As a result, the gases are determined, so toxic gases that appear and register at Caprag Station. As one example here from a month ago on the night of 15.1. to 16.1. here I quote a little newspaper article: "For most residents of the Sisak village Caprag, but also many residents of the city center were sleepless. The insufferable smell behind the Sisak Refinery usually but never so intense and beside the closed windows, he crawled into the rooms and woke up from the dream of Sisena. The view of the Ministry of Environmental Protection's measurement station gave an answer. Between 3 and 6 hours, over-pollution of hydrogen sulphur was recorded with a peak of 16.1. around 5 in the morning.". And which is still very indicative, "That night, the south wind blew and the pollution drove from the measuring station towards the refinery.", so it is assumed that the pollution was actually even greater. Or as another article reads again: "At the measured station of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which is 24 hours a day controlled by the level of pollution in Caprag Sišteni on Saturday 13.1. They were able to convince themselves of the most dangerous pollution with this gas benzene. So at 10 o'clock, the level of benzene pollution, for example. It was 12.57 units of measurement, and the limit value was 5 units of measurement."so it was more than double. What's benzene? Benzene is a powerful poison that causes lung, liver, kidney, and bone marrow cancer, and can significantly increase the risk of leukemia. The action of benzene on the organism can be carcinogenic and non-cerogenous. Benzene which inhales in the body is well absorbed and distributed into lipid and well-bleeded tissues and has the ability to cross certain barriers. Non-cerogenous activity is mainly directed at the hepatopoietic system. So the most common effects are chronic exposure to aplastic anaemia, immunological disorders... and the blood coagulation process by reducing platelet counts in circulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here are the professional terms. We also have information that benzene can significantly increase the risk of leukemia. In a 20-year study, scientists at the Milan National Cancer Institute found that children living next to the source of benzene pollution along factories, roads and gas stations are at greater risk of leukemia disease. Petrinski pulmologist Dr Gordana Stjepanović points out that lung and airway diseases of asthma and chronic obstructive lung disease are becoming more common in Sisak-Moslavina County, i.e. the rapid increase in lung disease and allergy. It adds that more and more children are ill. So this is about benzene. There's also a problem with sulfur dioxide. On that same day, the amount of sulfur dioxide from that measurement unit in the range of 6 to 9 hours jumped from 6 to 38 units of measurement. And the data also tells us that sulfur dioxide, a chemical compound, is directly toxic to humans, and that animals are caused by respiratory problems. Indirectly, it also affects human health by passing to salt in the form of fine particles as a city smog. Casing on the ground as sulfur dioxide or in the form of sulphate directly affects soil acidification and vegetation. So it's harmful to vegetation and to the woods, that's what Mr. Ledinsky was talking about. So these few facts that I have now presented speak of the fact that the citizens of Sisak and the surrounding areas are in great danger because of the operation of certain industrial facilities, and it is also a coincidence or not, so at the same time since 16.1. there has been another ecological incident and thus that a large amount of waste oil and oil has been dropped from the refinery in the Kupa River and Sava. So all this tells us that this part of our country is almost every day exposed to various ecological pressures, I think it would be very important, therefore, that as soon as we create certain standards and standards that would not only normally apply to Sisak-Moslavina County, for the city of Sisak, but also for the whole of Croatia, because in other parts of Croatia, we also have such facilities that threaten or threaten the population that lives in its environment. There may just be a reminder that there is also a protocol in Croatia for critical pollution levels, but for example in Sisak, it has not been used lately, despite the fact that the measurement cells have shown a large amount of hazardous substances, the protocol has not been so engaged, it has not been used, and this protocol includes the inclusion of sirens first, inviting people not to go out, to shut down schools and kindergartens, that all windows must be closed, the fans shut down, and that the refinery is being warned of high pollution and calls immediately to remove causes or to stop working. Unfortunately, this protocol has never been activated once before, however, I said, which has led to certain environmental incidents. So I call once again on the government and the ministry to engage as soon as possible so that these problems in Sisak can be solved as soon as possible, and unfortunately what we are not satisfied with, for example. What I think primarily of the Ministry of Health has no confidence in its citizens, and here we received assurances a week ago from the Ministry of Health that the number of patients is therefore from respiratory diseases, etc. in the population of Sisak or Sisak-Moslavina County, on average, the same as in other counties, and let's say this data that is now presented by Andrija Printar Institute tells us something different. I think we need to trust our citizens more, I think they deserve it especially from citizens in Sisak and Moslavina who have been struggling with these problems for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83763	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Željko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83764	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I mean, why did I want to get back to you in the first place? We at the HSS Club are not clear how we conduct this debate. The government has agreed to discuss in the Assembly a proposal to conclude the HSS where we should discuss air pollution in Sisak, the number of ecological incidents in the oil refinery and the adoption of measures to prevent them. It's in the conclusion that the government has accepted. Here we listened to the minister who said she would speak very briefly from me of the unknown reasons why she stressed that she would speak briefly and which is why she also spoke the political, former government, the current government. No, ma'am, we're talking about the period 2005 and 2006 we don't want to talk about the 99th year when HDZ was in power, we're not interested. We are interested in the figures that 51 times in 2005 the concentration of sulfur dioxide was exceeded, but annual overruns were allowed three times, 51 times. Hydrogen sulphur 63 times, overrun allowed seven times. In 2006, sulfur hydrogen exceeded 100. But you see we would just like to talk not about yesterday who was in power and who did not, and could, we would like to hear from you, and that we expected, what it will look like tomorrow, what this government but also this Parliament will do, because according to the law and the Parliament is responsible for protecting the quality of air. But we heard how the law was passed, how they passed sublegal acts, and we didn't hear how polluter control was done, how many inspections there were, we didn't hear how many penalties there were, whether the penalties were charged and what was going on in that area. We want to discuss the future, we don't want to discuss the past, I assure you. We're interested in what we're going to do today, why we didn't do something and we were supposed to do it yesterday, and we're particularly interested in why we don't have reports except for the oral report the minister gave. I hope that's not a report of what the government has taken. So we're asking now whether we're going to discuss this conclusion again to the HSS because the government supports us opening the debate, but it doesn't give us fellow Members of Parliament material. What do we do now? Deplore the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report to the Parliament on the measures it has taken? Well, ma'am, why don't we have the materials on us if we're discussing that point? Well, that's inexplicable. It's inexplicable that we didn't get on our benches and we as a proposing, so if not before today that we got that report. We fully know that it is with you, that you have it, not only a report from your ministry's jurisdiction, but a report from the district of Sisak-Moslavina, the city of Sisak does not exist for us here in the Parliament. We're arguing in mind, we're now going to be politically arguing whether either 100 times or 103 times air pollution during the former, present or not, God forbid it will be again and during some future government. And what we are now going to draw is the conclusion proposed by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, which would be tasked by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to deliver a report to the Parliament. I suggest we actually end this. This doesn't make any sense to discuss it without the material we needed in any case provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as soon as we opened this point. Otherwise, I think we should have another discussion and that's when we get the materials that might lead to a conclusion. Here,... Of course, well, look, if we've opened the debate, then it's expected that the government will provide us with the materials it has. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why didn't you deliver it to us? It's really incomprehensible to me, and I can't figure it out. We'd also be interested if we saw the administration's obvious. This is the Ministry of Labour, Economy and Entrepreneurship, what is their strategy? What did they do? We'd also be interested in the State Inspectorate's report. Do you have such a report? If you have it, please let us have it as soon as possible. And I suggest we end this debate because we speak heard, say, say, who is politically guilty, formerly, has passed, I hope it won't be the government's fault and future. It's an HSS proposal not to blame the next government. That we all do something here together because that Air Protection Act is in Parliament's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83765	Thank you. We have a few first corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83766	Well, dear fellow Pecek said that we want to discuss the future, the measures to be taken, the measures the government has taken, the inspections that have taken, even though we have opened this debate to actually discuss it by heart. But I must say that this point is, we are discussing the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit a detailed report on air pollution in Sisak. So we have a technical conclusion on the agenda that we're just going to commit to the government to provide us with all this information and all these reports, and only after the government delivers it to us will we be able to discuss everything that you're talking about. Well, look, according to this conclusion, the government doesn't even need to submit a report. But we're arguing purely procedurally to make a commitment to the government to deliver it to us. Now we don't need to discuss here the scale of the problem or the measure of things, but how are we going to commit to the government? It's the only thing about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83767	Second correction, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83768	Oh, thank you, Mr. President. Just now, my colleague Bosnjakovic wanted it and he corrected it and my intention is the same. It's incorrect for us here to discuss the report the government filed because we didn't get it either. And neither did you. If you had filed that report, I would have accepted this debate immediately at this pace. You've come to that yourself. The item of the agenda is, the proposal for a conclusion which obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed report on air pollution in Sisak and the number of ecological incidents from the oil refinery and the adoption of measures to prevent them. For example, in my debate when it comes to it, I will discuss your conclusion, do I agree that that is how this conclusion is formulated or not? I'm taking with some parts of your conclusion, for example. I won't agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83769	And the next correction, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83770	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here are my colleagues. They're already on the trail of correction. In fact, it is incorrect that the government should have provided a report under this point. We will only eventually oblige the government to submit a report to someone at the next session. But you, as a proposing point, should have made an effort, and then you should have been working with the exact data and everything that's been done so far. And that's how you actually opened the story. And now that it's really a technical request, you're changing the story yourself and you're saying you need to break up. We agree that we need to discuss everything and that everything can be discussed but don't move the ball to the government because you're the one who suggested this item of the agenda. Therefore, you are responsible for the content that will be found in that agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83771	According to Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall lay down their views on certain events and phenomena, and in accordance with paragraph 2 of the same article, on the basis of an assessment of the situation in each area, conclusions may be taken, opinions expressed or determined by the Government, ministries and other bodies of the state administration. The proposal for a conclusion of the HSS Representatives Club aims to commit the Government to submitting a detailed report on air pollution in Sisak and the number of ecological incidents in the oil refinery and the adoption of measures to prevent them. I included this proposal for a conclusion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and included in the agenda of the sittings and spent the Parliament and made a decision and made it, to include this proposal in the agenda. And that's included. And now, after the debate has been held, the Parliament should decide whether to accept this proposal by voting or not to accept it in another form. I can't interrupt my colleague Pacek's hearing right now. Only if everyone agreed to stop this debate and give up that debate. Then we should vote again on the proposal for that conclusion. Minister, go ahead. Here, just... [[So we have a quorum.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83772	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, at first, I said I didn't file the report and we didn't do it for all these reasons we're talking about right now. The Parliament has its Rules of Procedure, we all have to act on this Rules of Procedure, and then there's no reason why we can't file a full report for you. The difference between your proposal sent to the government is that the government is limiting itself to its report for its term of office. So, from 2004 to 2007 I said what's the reason. I also said what it is, but the most important reason is what you just said. We set up the station and all these results that you were talking about could first be read during that time period, not before. So it's clear that everyone was reading it, that we're reading it, and that we're going to report to you on everything that's been done and what's going to be done to improve the life of all Sisak residents because of course it's in the first interest of the government to actually do the job and, as I said, believe me, it will. So that's all we're discussing. And when we deliver the report to you, you will discuss it, of course you have every right to discuss it and say, "Well, it's not good or anything like that." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83773	Thank you. Is it really except, except to include the proposal in the agenda I cannot substitute the Parliament's decision and order myself to, to the Government to submit a report which would be the basis for the debate. Here's your colleague, Pacek. Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83774	Thank you very much. I wouldn't want this to be a political issue. I wouldn't want it to be legal. We're here to discuss Madam Minister without a basis. We believe that you could provide the bases on which we could draw a conclusion which is in the interest of the Croatian Parliament and which is particularly in the interest of the citizens of Sisak and their county. Here, as usual, we interpret legal standards. We're outwitting which government is to blame? You will only stand for the term of office of your government. Look, we're not interested in that. Yours, our government. I've mentioned it five times. We're interested in trends. Trends are bad. We're interested in the situation today, and we're curious about what's going to change tomorrow? How we're gonna make it better. But let me express my anger to the president because some materials were obtained by the Committee, the Committee had not received them, we did not get them from the Parliament, nor did we get them from the club that proposed them. There's probably no reason for that, Madam Secretary. So it could be photocopied, multiplied, and if it got the materials the Committee could get us, too. But what's there, what's important here? It is important that we, in as short a time as possible, and as soon as possible, draw conclusions and take measures. If we accept this proposal now that we're going to wait for the government's opinion for a few months, a year, or I don't know how long because you didn't say anything when we're going to get that report? So we'd be interested in it if we couldn't get it right now and some of the others could've gotten it when we got it. Because we know you have it. You also have the city's report, the county report, the inspection report. So why didn't you give it to us here? Is it some secret or is it the intention that we've been denied for that information that's available to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83775	Three corrections, respected representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83776	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Pecek, MP Pecek cited the incorrect assumption that he provided the Parliament with information that one item on this agenda was obtained by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection and the other Assembly. It's absolutely not... Please excuse me while you were talking, I didn't disturb you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Everything the Committee has received has been given to the Croatian Parliament. It could've been... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83777	Correction, honourable representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83778	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it seems to be necessary for the public but also for the sake of Agent Pecek himself to repeat that the government couldn't provide a basis for this point the way he says it. We are indeed discussing only one technical conclusion that we will eventually commit to the government to give that basis. And it's not true that the boards got other material from the rest of us. So the board didn't get any other material. And don't relativize the thing. It's not about this right now. Are we going to discuss the essence? We will, we will discuss the essence but then when it comes to the agenda of the Rules of Procedure and according to the rules that exist in this House. Otherwise, if we don't follow the rules like you're trying to suggest, then who's going to follow them. I mean, amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83779	And the esteemed representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83780	Mr. President, actually, the same thing my colleague Matusic said, so I'm not going to repeat myself. We haven't received a report because we haven't reached the conclusion that the government needs to deliver it yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83781	It is logical that we first have to accept whether or not we accept this proposal? If the proposal for a conclusion were accepted, would it be a basis for the government to submit this report with all these measures, and now the debate should certainly be analysed in this direction to, yes or not, accept the proposal for conclusions? A SDP representative club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83782	Mr. President, my predecessor, my colleague Pavlic, came for this pay phone by wearing a newspaper. I come bearing the weekly paper. I don't remember ever in the Croatian Parliament, that in the Croatian Parliament, the debate on any wheel as a background had a newspaper, either weekly or daily. This is really top-notch cynicism. To answer as much as you try to say that it is formal procedural reasons, come to the session of the Parliament's Parliament with the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia believes that the Croatian Parliament should discuss anything. Well, that's top cynicism. The HSS colleagues proposed a single conclusion in a procedurally legal and normal manner because it is said "the government of Croatia commits itself to submitting a detailed report on air pollution" and so on "in Sisak". That conclusion is given in the procedure as it has always been done in this House. It was logical to expect that today we would discuss something here that had its basis in fact. And this country has a government, it has agencies, it has institutions, it has institutions, institutes and so on and so on. And the government is obliged to subscribe to this House all the relevant data that this Parliament is looking for that can be accepted in any way. No, not to report "Yes, you can discuss whatever you want and about this." What is it they want to say? What kind of debate would we be here, we should spend in this House. This is cynical, but this is irresponsible if you want to do both the problem and the topic that we're putting on the agenda. And it actually confirms the thesis that so many Christians in years behind us have shown countless times that it's actually about one complete irresponsibility, the carelessness of those who would have to have as their elemental commitment to one city, one region that paid a tribute to exactly political decisions if you wanted to make a history of smell in Sisko a few decades old. And that's why it's not just about the government's responsibility. And no one asks this government to defend itself if we are really interested in solving the problems that they have and far deeper than what a resolute ministry or one resolute minister can offer, even if it is the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning. Because the history of smelling mammalian and the way that smell manifests itself and where it comes from is much more than just an ecological question. It's not just an ecological question. If you want to, being in Sisak doesn't mean there's a butt in Sisak. In Sisak, it stinks because, for example, what could have been done and what had to be done in history is that the technology that has its own lifetime, which is obsolete and which no longer gives the possibility to create products that would have passed, when it comes to refinery, then I will say that 55% of cars in the Republic of Croatia cannot use gasoline produced either in the Sisak or in the river refinery, because it has no euro quality, because it does not meet the elemental standards. We don't have a product anymore. Speaking of the conclusion proposed by HSS then I must say that what may be frightening in the good faith of my colleagues in their conclusion, which concludes their conclusion, says that immediately prevents the poisoning of the citizens of Sisak and the surrounding area from closing down the plants of a factory in Sisak that are the cause of such a bad condition. Gentlemen, do you really think the citizens of Sisak only have two alternatives? Department of Oncology or Employment. Are those our alternatives? If those are alternatives, then we're on a bad track to solve this problem. '91. I think it's the Sisak refinery. The flames rose hundreds of meters into the air, people died shutting down that refinery that didn't stop for an hour, even under the most severe shelling, guarding their jobs. We lived with the refinery. There can't be an alternative to a refinery out of Sisak, we'll shut it down. That can't be an alternative. At the same age, steel was forged in Sisak, pipes from which we made weapons and weapons to defend ourselves. These days we're facing an alternative to the Employment Service or that hardware that hasn't been solved here for 17 years that we're in capitalism not being solved. We have a thermal power plant in Sisak that works as a top thermal power plant, and imagine it's working at full capacity because it's on the mule, so that things look like. What I'm saying is that the direction of the debate on mammalian problems can only, by the way, be the story of ecology. It's a question of one city being exposed to systematic dying. The only city in Croatia over 40,000 inhabitants who have experienced their demographic breakdown in the last 30 years. We're 20 percent less in Sisak than we were 30 years ago. Sisak is a city where it's '80s. There were 35,000 inhabitants and 33,000 employees in the year. Did you know that information? 35,000 residents, 33,000 employees. Now there are 12 and a half thousand people in Sisak, and we have 13,000 pensioners and about 6 and a half thousand unemployed. This agony lasted too long, it lasted too long. The smell of irresponsibility has spread too long, both by state authorities and completely incompetent, unprofessional and irresponsible local authorities that we had in the city and the county, which did not recognize the problems of the people living in the city. No one has blinked for the city or the whole region if you want to, which is close to 50 kilometers from Zagreb has a huge potential, which, the region that is collapsing. And therefore, gentlemen, we will not come up with a solution to this problem unless the government gives us information about the environment, if it doesn't give us proof that it has a regional policy, if it doesn't give us evidence that it has a vision of the development of this country, which will not develop as an octopus, that it has a great Zagreb and a head, and that the arms are failing, which will have an industrial policy, so we will say what in this industrial policy, where is the place of Sisak. Because we don't give up on being an industrial city. We want to be an industrial city, we don't mind industry, but we want the technology that's possible today at this level of technological and scientific development in the world. I'll remind you gentlemen, 30 years ago in Sisak, he became the Institute of Metalurgy, where 60 masters and a doctor of science worked. One of the most influential metallurgical institutes in Europe. The great human potential, the scientific, professional in that city, was. Last week, I'm watching the City Council or the Headship makes a decision and he's thinking about how, what he's gonna do with the books from the Institute, no one's gonna do with them. No one will. The city of Sisak deserves it because it was a subject if you want it 50, 60 years ago it was a political project, it was a political project then. And now unfortunately with its own strength, it cannot change its economic structure with its own capabilities. At this point, there is not a single city in Croatia that has still remained deeply buried in socialism. It is about state-owned enterprises, it is about not developing parallelly other forms of other production, other forms of employment, training people for one different production, for new types of services, etc. etc. And that's why, Madam Minister, I suggest that you tell your colleagues in the government that you can't solve the problem, you can't solve it, because the first thing they would have sent to you to answer our questions would have to really explain, explain why the refinery was not modernized when the preconditions were made. All prerequisites. The refinery was to be completed, completed in 2006, at the end or beginning of 2007. Where is the reason for this delay? It's not true that the partner "Mol" stopped modernization. That's not true. The money was secured, the projects existed, it could have been solved long ago. We're looking at last week's signed agreement on, finally an isomerizing contract to this facility. It started at the 11th month, the 10th, when, work on the Klaus facility. What were you waiting for? What were you waiting for? Now that the pressure has been created and the citizens and we take off their hats more self-organized, now suddenly it shows that something is possible to move in that direction. I suggest, Mr. President, in accordance with what counterpart Pecek here has said for a moment to stop this debate, to stop it, and to accept its conclusion, to accept the conclusion that we open this debate the moment we have the actual basis on which we will discuss it. Neither are anyone's impressions, nor are those of us living in Sisak enough to talk about it seriously, nor are they newspaper inscriptions, and even less should be the basis of anyone's motivation to sew up a political point and show a bountiful concern for the citizens of Sisak. We who live there, whose wife, children, relatives there, we don't need and don't want that kind of concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83783	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83784	Thank you, Mr. President. An incorrect colleague said again on the trail of what counterpart Pecek was saying, that the government should have provided the basis and that the ministry should have and it is incorrect that cynicism from the government was the conclusion he proposed. Look at the fellow conclusion proposed for this item on the agenda. We will only eventually commit to the government, so this is the proposal for a conclusion to oblige the government to submit a report. The other thing is, it's not good for you to abuse this pay phone to deal with your opponents politically at local level and such a bile is really not necessary here. And third thing, the government hasn't started since yesterday with measures related to the refinery but has been doing it systematically since she arrived, since she took over her mandate and it will be the subject of a report that we will have ahead of us I hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83785	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83786	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, a fellow representative cited at least one ten incorrect allegations, and I will correct only one. It reads this: The Government is obliged to submit a report to the Parliament on this item of the agenda. Well, sir, that's not true, the HSS Club did not address the Government but rather the President of the Croatian Parliament to put this item on the agenda so that we can discuss whether or not we ask the Government. So the point of this debate is that. But you're spreading this debate to politics. You want to deal with the current government and with your opponents there in Sisak, leave it for the moment when the government is fine on the basis of a proposal made by the Committee on Space Planning prepares a real report that will allow us to talk about and what the city has taken and what has taken over the county, the Government, and of course we will include those contaminants who, because they are in the first place if we bypass them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83787	And respected representative Ivanka Roksandić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83788	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Vidovic, respecting your emotions that I also carry unlike many of my colleagues sitting here, according to the town where I was born, I must say you are not fair when you say the city dies because of incompetent authority. It's your personal account at the moment with the city government at the time. Let me remind you of all of us, you were the mayor of Sisak for a short time, from June 2005 to 12 months 2005, so I'm asking you who's a fellow representative, who's the former mayor by respecting the period in which you were, which I expected to say, in the city of Sisak, when in 2005, in 2006, the same rise in air pollution. And I wear emotions like you do. And you know why... That's what you said, don't be surprised. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Unfortunately, Sisak is the result of a socialist development of the economy, for 50 years, and I wouldn't speak like that in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83789	Okay. HNS representative club, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83790	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I am not here to deal with the 99th government or the 2003 Government, nor with this Government, but I am really asking you to try to help the citizens of Sisak as quickly and as effectively as possible, but also many other cities that are in a similar situation. We've been playing the deaf phone for an hour and a half, and Sisak's citizens aren't up to games, it's not a joke, the situation is extremely alarming, and I agree with those who said that what we're doing is top-notch cynicism. It's the ultimate cynicism. My colleagues and colleagues, we were given the government's opinion today on our benches, on February 13th, and we got the conclusions of our board of directors, date today on February 14th. Government opinion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia believes that the Croatian Parliament should discuss air pollution from the Sisak refinery and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will now follow, report on the measures it took in the period 2004-2007 will today and stand, for its representatives who will be present with regard to the opinions presented, you and you. So today was promised, today it was promised that we would get a report on the measures taken over the past four years. That's what the government thought yesterday. Then today we get the conclusions of our committee. Let's get this straight. First conclusion. The debate is supported in the Croatian Parliament on air pollution from the Sisak refinery. 16 MPs didn't ask for that at all. At least not just that, it's an accent on something else entirely. To file a detailed report on air pollution. There's no mention of such a report here. Neither under the conclusion of the 1st Committee nor under the conclusion of the 2nd. The Committee, neither under the third, is referred to in the second conclusion in the Report of Measures. But environmental parameters are not mentioned anywhere. That's how it works here. And finally the third conclusion that the Committee proposes that the city of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County be tasked with, for the purposes of future discussions, delivering reports, etc. Can we, like the Croatian Parliament or our Committee, be in charge of the town of Sisak, local self-government and regional self-government? We can ask them, we can ask. And now what does that sentence end with? And measures within their jurisdiction that they have taken. What are the measures in the jurisdiction of the city and the county towards the INA, according to the INA? Can they shut down the INA engines? Can they and should they do a recovery program for the INA? Can they change the technology process and improve it? Do they need to recapitalize the INA and centralize the facilities in Sisak? Or possibly what I can, criminal charges against contaminants. Is that a solution? The only solution is for colleagues and colleagues to get gas masks for all their citizens. That's all I can do. And nothing else. Now that we can only discuss the future debate today, then the HNS club begs you Ministers, that at least here, a dozen of our proposals are included in the future report, that we are not again looking for a third and a fourth and a fifth report, that we are always incomplete, that we are always playing the deaf phone. In fact, maybe we should explain to ourselves and to the citizens first. Measurement of emissions at the source of pollution, so at the top of a chimney whose task is it? States. It's measured. The state is in charge, the state pays, the state organizes. ... Not automatically. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It hasn't been automatically for 15 years. That's just recent. Therefore, we ask that we know whose jurisdiction it is. Second. Not bad when the polluter's 30 kilometers from that village. But when it is in the middle of a settlement or near a settlement, then it is clear that the village and the county still determine a number of measurement points and through the Institute of Public Health follow, measures continuously and who are being reported? Which one are they reporting? The Ministry. The ministry has that information again. So it all concentrates in one place and normally we ask the Ministry for all that information, because they really have everything. Sisak isn't the only case. Excess the concentration of certain harmful substances. Here, in my county, the Primorje-Gorski County, the third category of air quality we have in one part of Rijeka and one part of Kostrena. It's not an accident. It's clear again near the INA drive. That's why we're asking you to answer the following questions in the report we're about to get. To show the areas where air categorization in Sisak and its surroundings is the first, second, third category. It would be good for this House to get that for many other cities where the situation is bad, related to pollution. It would even be clearly convenient if it were on the web and that it would be permanently monitored for the whole country. But this time we agree, let's just do one rehearsal with Sisko. Then, to indicate which contaminants they are. Is it just an INA or is it some other contaminants? Because if it's someone else, we're just hitting on the INA and then we haven't solved the whole problem. Third. What are the technological processes that are obsolete and that are to blame for what is happening? What are the deadlines for allowing contaminants to return the concentration of harmful substances below the allowed limit? What polluters have been around for years, and why? Why are the inspectors looking through their fingers? Have the rehabilitation programs been built? And finally, how many times has the ministry been, I don't ask you to do this, Madam Minister, but there are competent people for that area, how many times have they sat down with the mayor, with the mayor, with the heads of these plants and agreed on measures, on how to implement these measures? Was there one meeting, two, four? Are such meetings regularly held with the mayors, or not? Because I feel like there's really no coordination. That there is no coordination between the state level, regional level, local level and that the clear lack of coordination is well blamed for what we have today in Sisak but also in many other places. So here, we would like that when the debate finally starts, that it is essentially comprehensive and that the problems of the citizens of Sisak are resolved very quickly and effectively after it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83791	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83792	Mr. President! Representative Doric cited several wrong allegations and I will try to correct it only in one where he stated that the Croatian Parliament and the Committee on Spatial Planning have no right to ask the units of local self-government and county to submit a report on the state of the environment. Here, I direct him, refer him to the provisions of Articles 26, 33 and 43 and 44. The Air Protection Act will see that the units are absolutely mandatory and what they are obliged to do. It's not just about their responsibility, it's about the question and responsibility of the polluter and what they're doing to protect the citizens, and of course we have the right, I guess, to get a report about it if we're interested. And we should be interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83793	HDZ representative club respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83794	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am grateful to my colleague Doric for calming this debate and directed exactly what the Croatian Peasant Party Club was looking for. Discussing the conclusion, the proposal concludes that an air pollution debate is being held in Sisak and that is why I am very grateful as a Sistian. I may speak as emotionally as my colleague Vidovic, but it really hurts me that Sisak is also marked in my colleague Vidovic's words and in the mass of other media with a big black spot on the map of Croatia. Sisak isn't. Sisak has his problems, the socialist so-called problems. industry, big economy. By the time Sisak was nineties, he had very happy people who didn't think, unfortunately, whether they were breathing fresh air or not? Because 12 thousand of them worked in the ones mentioned here today, the Irons. Over 3,000 in the Refinery. In the Refinery that works, imagine from 1927 until 1986 something was invested in it and restored. Nothing since 1986, believe me, has been invested in what would have led to this if the air in the city of Sisak had been much cleaner today and at this time. So you see how old it is. How many years it's been since nothing's been invested. The refinery that Sisko brought a lot of good but also a lot of evil. The thermal power plants located near the refinery and imagine Herbos, a chemical pesticide industry located in the center of the town of Sisak. So much for this conclusion today and so much for this town. And we, as the Club, have considered this proposal, and we agree that this debate should be conducted. A thorough and prepared debate. Not based on this conclusion, because we will not fully agree with this conclusion by our colleagues from the HSS. I'll tell you why. By raising awareness today, we have all agreed with citizens that the priority in preserving health is to preserve the environment in which we live, which has led to everyone today carefully from children who go to school to pensioners looking at the measuring station and saying, "We breathed bad quality air." We don't even have to look in Sisak sometimes. We can feel it. Today's the so-called day. The smell of rotten eggs is often mentioned. Because if he were somewhere since 2000, I'd say he'd grow up, get more intense. We heard today that the worst air categories in Caprak's village are. A settlement that has a thermal power plant, a refinery, a hardware store. The settlement, a residential settlement with three large schools which was built unfortunately I have to say today, unfortunately in a socialist way at the factory door right now, people have to live. I guess we'd be wasting as little time on the trip as possible. I don't know why. I've never thought about it, and that's what I've been doing. However, the third category is right in Caprag. In the middle of town for good luck. I want to say why I'm saying Sisak isn't such a black stain on a map or on a map, let's call it an ecological map, not that kind of category. In Sisak, however, we ask that the air be evened both in Caprag and Sisak, and that it be the first category, which means at this point that the concentration of both sulfur and sulfur dioxide and those so-called. The floating particles and benzene will be first category. So all those pollutants that affect the quality of air in Sisak. We have already said, and there is a colleague, Doric, who has seen well. The refinery is not the only air pollutant in Sisak. There's a thermal power plant. Unfortunately, however, the latest measurements that showed that out of 17 times the amount of pollution allowed in the air was only 6 times the refinery worked on the ointment or on the semi-fat. He says to his colleague Vidovic: "It can't be different." He can go on gas and on the mule when they combine eventually his work. So we all got involved in all our thoughts towards the refinery, and I believe from there, that conclusion of the HSS Representatives Club to seek the responsibility of the refinery. I will remind myself that many of the measures since 2000, so somewhere since 1999, when this increase is and when it is being followed and followed, and when it is said, I would have reached such a limit that it must be taken seriously, but in March 2000, INA developed a recovery programme to reduce air pollution by sulfur. The headship is, so the local community has accepted it, but I have to tell you something a little in two years has improved, and then nothing. Back to the way it was. In 2002 and 2003, therefore, there is a significant increase in the central annual sulphur concentration. What can be prescribed just using, today someone mentioned oil with higher sulphur content, and on the other hand, the start of fuel production with lower sulphur content. What the regulations require. What's going on now and why? Indeed, the patience of the citizens is at an end. We welcome every initiative of the Citizens' Association that had its own protest this Saturday. But we certainly don't welcome politicizing and manipulating it. Why? Why and for what? Because in 2004, it is already obvious that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the local community has taken all significant steps towards the INA oil refinery to implement and measure therefore recovery measures for the pollution programme. That the refinery is starting to modernize. These refinery negotiations have been going on for you since 2000. We really read articles in Sisak. I've got one here, and I'm not gonna turn him around like my colleagues on camera. I'll turn something else and say why we don't agree with everything, the whole conclusion of the HSS Club. So we read our speech in 2000 and 2001, and I won't mention the former leaders. We're investing in modernising INA 180 million, 200 million. Those were numbers in three years. We were in Sisak hoping, here it begins, begins, begins. You know when it started? In 2004, when the inspection banned the use of oil with more than 1% sulphur, we are grateful to the ministry and the inspection service because something has improved. Then, when the ministry ordered that an emergency operational plan be drawn up for the modernisation of INA in 2004. INA began to calculate there too, probably because of saving, would not, but still the ministry returned their modernization programme to dorad and in 2005 they happily accepted the modernisation of the INA to make this famous, I will say the famous Klaus facility that all battle is about, and that is to reduce all emissions and missions in the air, it really started with the construction of 2006 somewhere in the summer of 2006. On September 1st, it intensified and the construction began. And I can tell you now, because I'm coming from Sisak these papers are currently ongoing, intensified. We are happy in Sisak if it will be this year by the 8th month, until August as planned, the operational building of the minister at least so we are told, completed. It will solve not all the problems of the refinery and the city of Sisak but one big problem and this is exactly this sulphur-water pollution, so this famous smell of rotten eggs from which he rightly said I don't know any of my predecessors that the eyes of these days were inferno and that people were closing windows. So you really need to conduct a discussion about it. You don't need to politicize, you need to protect the citizens of Sisak. But colleagues from the HSS and despite what the picture of the health of the Sisak citizens says, I must tell you, it was made in 2004 at the County's proposal together in cooperation with the National Health School "Andrija Stampar". She's the one who's based on this data that we're working on. I sincerely hope that the current county headship, I am also a councilman in the County Assembly, each time I ask when will be the final study that will say and worry about the health of Sisak citizens, which the city of Sisak signed in cooperation with the county in late 2004 in cooperation with the county to co-finance. She's not finished yet, until today. We have a promise from the County Chiefship that it will be over by the end of June. Where we will see these new indicators that we have the right to suspect will be even more devastating than those since 2004. It's just at this point our speculation. We don't have the right data for now. I hope we do. Indeed, taking care of the citizens of Sisak, expressing concern for their health, which is at the very beginning not only of the air but also of the water. I think colleague Vidovic mentioned water, I don't remember, and pollution of the Cup, but someone did, someone mentioned it. We cannot agree with your proposal as to why and how to solve the problem of pollution. Because we cannot, and I will now quote, support the conclusion that we are looking for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to include more actively the realization of this conclusion immediately prevents the poisoning of the citizens of Sisak and the surrounding areas in a way that shuts down the plants of the factories in Sisak which are the cause of such a bad situation. I don't think we have the right to ask for it, to close jobs in a city where every new job and even this in trade chains in the last year two 600, 700 new jobs means a huge loss. And imagine if we sum up all of these so-called. polluters about 200, 2,000 sorry jobs. I think it would be too much for the citizens of Sisak, that only then would Sisak be a real black stain, a real black stain on the map not ecological, but a Croatian map. I don't think a city that's been compromised by both war and social threats should experience the closure of the only sources of its income. I don't mean the city here. I mean the citizens of Sisak. I don't think the citizens of Sisak agree with this. That's why I keep this flyer out of politics. So I'm going to read what the Eco Association is looking for, a ban on processing high-sumptuous oil in INA facilities, strict combustion control, transparent data on the type of oil, and the amount of burning waste in mammalian burners. Nothing else. It's a flyer that the citizens signed on Saturday. That's what we're looking for. We are looking for and will support what the Government has proposed in a way that the Club of Representatives will support the decision that this topic is discussed in the Assembly, because it will certainly contribute to this debate, will be meaningful not only for the Siscens but also for the others, that it will certainly contribute to the consciousness of all, that it will activate measures to prevent air pollution in the city of Sisak and its surroundings and oblige the Government to present a report on what it has done to protect the air in the city of Sisak, according to which I think, according to the citizens of the city of Sisak, but in the period for which it is responsible, so in the period from 2004 to this day of 2007. By not being able to accept your conclusion to close down a small number of existing jobs in the city of Sisak anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83795	Dear colleagues, in accordance with Rule 207(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the time has expired for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We're moving on to correcting incorrect allegations. My colleague Ljubica Lalić, first in line. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83796	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting the quote of a colleague who said that Sicen was a victim of socialist industrialization, so then she listed it as saying that 120 thousand Sishkens were but well, it doesn't matter. My colleagues, they are not citizens of the victims of socialist industrialization, but they are a victim, and they are the victims of those who have stopped investing in modernising technology and have become the source of Sishken's well-being their poisoners. And that's why we went with the proposal of this conclusion that the government intervened and forced it to invest in technology so that those poisoners would stop being poisoners. And what you've read and said you don't support it, that's the final measure. If the government can't force the prevention of poisoning. And if he can't protect and make technology such that he doesn't poison the citizens of Sisak then in the end, let's close those... Then we close those poisoners because we choose between poisoning and employment. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I am, and we are very busy, but let's make sure the citizens of the city of Sisak have a healthy atmosphere and healthy air.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83797	Don't blame me for a little arbitration. Neither is your colleague right, nor are you. What HSS Representatives Club proposed as a closure by the Government of individual plants, it is not a proposal for a conclusion, it is an explanation of the conclusion and it has nothing to do with...... Please, now I'm talking. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, this conclusion cannot, in this respect, be particularly discussed as a conclusion. There's a reason to argue. And whether or not it's going to be a measure, that's another thing, and that's why I think just because passions quiet down would explain this thing so that we can discuss it more easily.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83798	Well, that's why I said it wasn't true, so that's not the conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83799	It's not a conclusion. It's an explanation. A colleague Vidovic has a correction to an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83800	I would correct the quote of my colleague, Roksandic, who probably didn't mean it, but she said that Siscani were people happy citizens until the 1990s, so as if all the evil had started in the '90s and in socialism they were happy. That's not true, my colleague. You probably didn't mean to say it like that, but that's how a colleague listed it. The Sisans were unhappy until the '90s and were happy after the '90s. The second false quote is an incorrect allegation and a persistently repeated lie. They messed with 200, 300 million. Nothing happened. The project was finished by colleagues, a project that had to be implemented, a contest to be opened, it was all over.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83801	Thank you, dear colleague Lonchar, for your comment. My colleague's got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here are my colleagues, Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83802	I think he's a colleague of Vidovic, I don't think, but I know he hurt his Rules of Procedure. I didn't say that to my colleague Vidovic at all...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83803	What article? If you already know, what article?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83804	209. I know that. My colleague never said what I said. ... I didn't say. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's you Cain, you're here now. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83805	We're moving on with the corrections of incorrect... Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have not yet turned the assembly into a Greek agora so that by shouting the debate, we ask you nicely if it is possible that you do not get used to the bench and that you allow colleagues in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to exercise their right, or obligation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleague, Pacek, is entitled to a correction of an incorrect quote. Here's your colleague, Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83806	Thank you very much. If Sisak was a town of happy people or was, then I'm not happy we're talking politically here anyway. A colleague of Roksandić heard what was right for her and she read what was right for her. It is true that it says in an explanation that we are thinking about the possible closure of some drives, but it does not say so in the conclusion. But I was talking about it, and I said it would be good to close the plants for a few hours when micro-climate conditions don't particularly match if factories work and especially air pollution happens. I believe that all Sisans would accept it, to be happier, colleagues, and you here along with us at the HSS Club, to temporarily close when there's an extraordinary pollution in a matter of hours. This would not do anything for processors particularly harmful, but surely useful for citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83807	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, dear colleague Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83808	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. If this is true as the MPs put it, this is indeed a disaster and should be solidarity with the people of Sisak, but with all those who are in a similar position as the citizens of Sisak. One word should be solidarity with all those who do harm. One word should finally install this detachment system, and if that doesn't help, then the whole system needs to be replaced by something else and that obligation on itself, and I want to say that there is a word of 800 people, Ina needs to be taken over. At that moment, the Ina stock won't be possible for that 10-share package of 35 or 40-thousands, it'll be or 50 tomorrow, it'll be 20, but it'll just be something to do. On the other hand, however, Mr. Vidovic noticed, and given the fact that he knows these opportunities, that 800 people work there, that the refinery must not leave Sisak if I paraphrasise him well. As Mr. Vidovic showed today this globe here, I also ripped some pages out of that same newspaper, meaning diseases killed by Croats, and then said among other things, only to find it: "The Sisak-Moslavina County 183,531 people die annually, two thousand and 600 people. In the right place is lung cancer, breast cancer, then ischaemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, complications and undefined descriptions of heart disease, chronic lower respiratory disease, etc. To turn the page, each other died annually is about 50 grand, they have a heart diagnosis, each fourth, i.e. 12 thousand 287 cancer people, annually, suffers from cancer by about 19 thousand people and there was an interesting subtitle, now they can't find it, that the cancer is the most affected by the Karlovcans and Siscans, from the heart of Zagreb and Bjelovarci, and from the stroke of the Međimurci while the healthiest live the Dalmatians and Istria. It's where it looks the most. And now, yes, later on, I may be more touched by that article, but before that, when I mentioned this refinery, I would just like to read a piece of the press release that Ina made yesterday, which can be read today in "The Vesnik" and some other newspapers. So Zagreb, yesterday, Ina signed a contract Friday with the US company... on the construction of a basic project of a facility for the isomerisation of one of the four capital facilities as part of a project to modernise the Sisak refinery, they reported on Tuesday, so yesterday from Ina. This facility will allow for an increase in the octanic number of light fractions of gasoline, thereby improving the quality of gasoline that comes into the market. The deadline for making the basic project is 22 weeks. After that, the following documentation for the opening of an international tender for the construction of a facility is drawn up. The signing of the contract preceded the adoption of the Environmental Impact Study of the facility. This American company is one of the world's leading companies in the field of bass engineering and licensing in the petrochemical industry, whose technological solutions are used in 132 refineries around the world, of which 47 in Europe. The signing of the contract or signing of the contract is a continuation of the successful, long-term cooperation between the INA and the US company, following a defunct facility of a Klaus and a hydrodesulforisation plant of gasoline. It is the third capital facility in the context of a project to modernise the refinery in Sisak. The upcoming modernisation of the coke plant will surround the first phase of the modernisation of the Sisak refinery that should be completed by 2009. This is what this means, and people should simply believe in the word that hundreds of millions of euros or dollars will certainly be invested in these plants and that this will indeed be the case. I would dare say, even on the trail of a fellow MP, that this isn't just an environmental debate. This is also, in some ways, a debate on the industrialisation of Croatia or the re industrialisation of this country. I was really impressed by an emotional debate just a little while ago by Mr. Representatives who come from Sisak, because really a man should be solidarity with a city that has 50th, I don't know 60 thousand inhabitants and at this point there are no I don't know, 12 and a half thousand employees and even 13 thousand pensioners, which is almost unimaginable to me from another part of the Republic of Croatia. When I talk about this industrialization, among other things, I would just like to note that at the end of last year, Croatian imports reached 21 and a half billion dollars. Exports of only $10.3 billion and we have to sort of break the illusion that we can only live on tourism and agriculture. And so perhaps the best example is Istria, which has twice as much export as the Primorje-Gorski County, which has 100,000 inhabitants more than Istria and where in total, the total industry is represented with 33% and second place is trade 29, tourism is only 10%, although the total is 40% of Croatian tourism. And 700% of Croatian tourism profits are made in the Istrian County. Seven times more than all the other tourism combined. Industry has considerable advantages. There's bigger pay. It's a safe year's work. Better union protection. If representative capital enters the industry, it is permanent. They're not usually... jobs, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also like to mention that higher than those who may be following this debate, that Istria today with 205,000 inhabitants, follows outside this assembly, has 90,000 employees. There is a relationship of one pensioner employed 1:2, in Croatia 1:1.39. We have more jobs than the '90s. We have less unemployment than the '90s. Four times more exports than the '90s. For years, but we've also fought for every job all these years. Why would I bring that up? I mention, among other things, one investment... where, after investors invested 50m euros, certain dispute actions were launched. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem is when everyone knows what's going on and when everybody's quiet. When councilmen go to Germany, they talk about a great investment, journalists go with them clearly. They're writing praises about all this, and then at some point in the election year, there's a campaign going on. Clearly you can't pull parallels between that... from one side of Sisak because... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It hasn't even started working at all and Sisak is there, a facility in which de facto hasn't been invested in the last 30 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what am I saying? We will really find ourselves quickly in a situation that we will start to think or industrialize this country or we will simply no longer be able to move on, because it is not a normal situation to double the imports but to export, that we are there in the '90s. The years had 2 million employees. Today we have a million 500 thousand insurance companies. If you reject 200 thousand of us who are on the state salary, clearly that the doctor is a de facto manufacturing position as well as a teacher, etc., it turns out that the ratio of one worker is one point not 3.9 as far as these pensioners are concerned but 1.5 of those who receive certain incomes from one worker. Such a situation will indeed not be able to meet the expectations of Croatian citizens indefinitely, and on this issue we will have to reach a consensus as further. Otherwise, it's really interesting that today's text in "Globus" and this subtitle, the cancer is the most affected by the Karlovcians and Siščeni, from the heart of Zagreb and Bjelovarci, from the stroke of the Međimurci, while the healthiest live the Dalmatians, Istria. And that's not what I'm saying because I think we live better than we do elsewhere. There's more work to be done than maybe elsewhere. But that's what I'm saying if someone listens to that debate to stop us from planting that most people in Istria are dying of cancer. That's why I'm saying it. But now I'm just going to quote this part of "... that inhaling polluted air has led to the rate of disease Sišten from cancer to 100,000 residents of 152 or 152 persons, while the average for Croatia is 121 persons. According to the Cancer Register in 2004 alone, the number of newly ill cancered men in Sisak-Moslavina County was among the highest in Croatia. He carried 527.6 to 100,000 inhabitants."," said Mr. Martinac. And now I don't count everything else. The situation must be alarming. We got this message from the INA that it's going to go into strong, big investments that are estimated to be tens, maybe hundreds of millions of dollars, and it really needs to be done as soon as possible to save jobs, but clearly what's equally important, if not the more important health of people who live on it, near these big systems. God forbid you think what would happen if these great systems under the patronage of state de facto authorities were not in Sisak. Only then would the number of employees be not 12500 but perhaps half less. If there are some 2,000 people working here today in Željezara, and the question of what will happen to this iron because this agony can no longer be tolerated. I just want to believe that if the workers go out to the streets again, the bridges won't be sent to the police as they were a few years ago. All in all we are absolutely for this debate, we are to open one controversy around all polluters in the Republic of Croatia but also to talk about the country's re industrialisation because in 1990 we had 2 million employees. Today, only a million and 500 thousand employees. I suppose the only counties of Istria and the City of Zagreb today have more jobs than they had in 1990. However, in order to run Croatia, it is too little.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83809	Thank you, dear fellow Cain. On behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Ledinsky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83810	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few words on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club who was the legislator of the debate on this conclusion. First of all, I would like to conclude that we are satisfied with the fact that all clubs have largely supported the proposal for a conclusion that we will soon receive a detailed comprehensive report in this form or perhaps some similar form, and I do not think there have been any objections other than some of the proposals in the explanation, so I believe that we have all realized that the problems in Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County itself are not negligible and that it is necessary to discuss it here on, in Parliament as the highest body to be responsible for implementing the Law on Air Protection. That something was happening in Sisak was visible in recent years by various indicators. Here I was able to get indicators from the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine from today, from which it is possible to see that there are measurements carried out following the Air Protection Act that we brought in three years ago and that there are certain air pollution and that certain categories were other, any third category dependent on the pollutant. So for example, it's said that the pollution of hydrogen sulphide at Sisak Station is 1 in the third category while it's, say, in Box 2. It's the same county. As long as it's on, to others, the ammonia is second category. On benzene next to Sisak 1 was measured at the same station also 3rd category. This certainly shows that the measurements are certainly accurate and that we can say that there has been some pollution. We also have data and environmental protection agencies that ordered the same follow-up from the same follow-up artist that further elaborates these indicators. So that I don't go into all these details and read them here, they're visible and clearly saying that there's been pollution. And what does the third category say? That means the air is too polluted. That the limit values of air quality are exceeded. The second category says the air is moderately polluted, the average values are exceeded and no air quality limit values are exceeded. So it's clear that there are certain contaminants that are measured there, and the truth is that we didn't have any prior indicators because we didn't even have such air protection laws, so we couldn't even have exact indicators. And what I was saying at the introduction was that we, as foresters say, were providing data that was visible on our scales. Followed on a network of 4x4 kilometers. Which I can tell you is that certain pollution has occurred. And as my colleague Ivanka said, people wanted to close the windows when it was such a contaminant. Unfortunately, plants can't close windows, they live in the environment they are. And for us, surely, it must be the goal of all together to reduce pollution so that it does not come to them. And the indicators that are interesting, I'd like to do it again. So in 1998, those contaminants weren't that big. Everything, significantly damaged meant grade 3 and 4 was all below 4%. Today it is 5 times more on average on all plant species, and what concerns me especially is that our most valuable oak tree oak tree is every other tree damaged. So grade three and level four damage. This is certainly one worrying data and it is also evident that the economic effect achieved, which celebrates the Sisak forest from the production of Susac, is significant, which means that it is reducing the economic effect, reduces the value that could be realised that it is not. I'm not saying it's just pollution from Sisko's area. It's on the outside. But it concerns that indicator. Also, if we were to look at the average, they would say, OK, on average it's somewhere on Croatia's level because the Gorski kotar is far more damaged precisely because of air currents from Western Europe. But since there is no current here, it means that we ourselves have enjoyed increased air pollution. And in that part of us, I say it must worry and it is simply necessary to take all the measures that are necessary. We told the Air Protection Act who has to implement these measures? So he makes it very clear what measures are in the area of local self-government units. They're not negligible, either. That's what they were talking about. The floor, measures to be taken by local self-government means city and county. From developing a program to protect and improve air quality. Quality reports. Creating a quality measurement programme at a local level to monitor air quality. The establishment of a sustaining, existing local network, drawing up a plan of pollution reduction measures. If the air is moderately polluted and you could say this middle measure is present in almost all elements. Development and implementation of financial programmes, implementation of measures to protect people in the event of a critical level of air pollution. It is also measures that must be implemented by the RES, that is to say the state. And so are the state-owned entities. Therefore, in this part of the debate, we are all responsible and control above all and the Parliament as well as everyone else, we are all responsible for repairing this situation. And that's why no one should be here to politicize or indicate that before, after, later, the knowledge is now present. I'm glad that people in Sisak organized themselves, that they founded associations, because they waited too long for us politicians to do it. And that's why, in future time, we have to get as soon as possible, as high-quality report on the constituency benches as possible, because here I believe we're going to get a term that won't be like this in the afternoon, but that all the media will follow us, and that it won't be whether it's in the election year or not, because by the suggestion of the conclusion here, it turns out that we're not going to get it until next year. It would be good if we could get it as soon as possible and then we could answer all the questions about why it came about and suggest quality measures. I would suggest as a forester one measure that can be applied in thermal power plants where it doesn't have to be just a source of lukewarm we said and the gas can and can be biomass, is with certain changes. Thus, if it were used in that area, it would certainly change one part of the mule or something and reduce pollution to environmental emissions. And in that way, they would certainly get better indicators and better quality life in the next time. Here, you could talk about all these indicators yet, but I've been trying to say in this part some of the indicators that are supported by the analyses that have been made so far. And I would like to invite everyone to support their fellow MPs on this proposal's conclusion and soon get a report that will be measured with expert indicators. And let me remind you that the club, the Committee on Space Planning two, three sessions ago, suggested that this same conclusion be reached by the Resorship Ministry first on its benches, and in the meantime, here at the Parliament's sitting alone here. The HSS Club will, of course, support the proposal for this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83811	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. He's gone. He's losing his word. Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83812	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister. Of course, I will strongly support but I would say so all the conclusions and conclusions proposed by the HSS Representatives' Club to commit to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed report on air pollution in Sisak and the number of ecological incidents from the Refinery of Oil and to take measures to prevent the same as these three conclusions proposed by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. However, I personally believe that there should be a number of other issues that are important to consider or support facts, data and documents in the report to be submitted by the Government and, of course, in reports that should be sent directly to the Assembly by the cities of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County. I will try to stay away from discussing the metrics as most colleagues have done so far. But I'll just remind you of the importance of pointing out what I want in particular to suggest that the degree of pollution, at least according to what we've received from the media is written, voiced, picturesque and attitudes of our citizens in Sisak, so that it endangers people's health and that it endangers the actual quality of life in the city of Sisak. If so, and we must believe that, then it is right to expect that it be obtained among other things, in accordance with Article 32. The air protection law which has been ordered, special measures to protect human health and how they are implemented from the city of Sisak regarding this situation where we are currently in relation to contaminants that contribute to this damage. And I think we should get those measures. I would like to remind the team more that, in accordance with these measures, the same plan should be adopted by the city to reduce air pollution and, in that part, in accordance with Article 43(4), again. The Contaminant Act is obliged to implement the financing of measures to reduce the emissions of pollutants in the air as set out in the plan for measures. It is therefore not enough to read that the INA is signing a contract, but rather whether we have come up with a plan of recovery that tries to protect people's health, whether we have come up with an impact reduction plan and whether the funds are provided for the implementation of the plan by the pollutants. Of course it does mean that I'm actually asking for an extension of the report, now whether it will be part of the government's report of the Republic of Croatia or the special booth of the ministry I don't know about the inspection report. In fact, I'd just like to correct one point of view in the report of our Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, which he asks the State Inspectorate to do. In this law, this inspection is not carried out by the State Inspectorate, but it is an inspection within the resolution ministry, and in this respect I am glad that the minister is here, that she can hear this, that we actually get a report on the supervision of law enforcement. In addition, not only the supervision of law enforcement but also of the supervision that the government was to adopt a plan on special air quality protection, then which was to be adopted by the county, etc. and see if it is implemented, if certain measures are prescribed, etc. More like a very, very difficult and critical situation. In this respect, I think we should get an additional report, as should be given specific reports from the city of Sisak and the county on the implementation of this plan that establishes or tries to normalise the situation in order to actually get air quality that will not endanger human and animal health, i.e. the ecological biological system in that area. The third thing I'd like to say here is that no matter how sad I am that an event like this happened, there was a joyous hope in me, this is no longer a taboo topic, it's an important thing. The important thing is that these issues are being discussed by the Parliament. The important thing is that we are finally starting to raise as a political entity, an ecological consciousness at the quality of life in our country. This is very important, and as much as this sometimes seems to be a burden on industrial operators in the economic system related to technology monitoring and environmental protection, we contribute to the quality of life, if we succeed in linking this environmental protection to both modern technology on the one hand and on the other hand, we create a compatible industry that can then be included in the international community and international division of work, or quite precisely and the European Union. You know, without this segment of respect for technology, our industry has nothing to look for on the European Union market. Neither from the perspective of the manufacturer nor from the aspect of the one that will offer goods in such production, because these goods simply will not satisfy the quality. You need to satisfy that question. I have to say that one more thing made me very happy about this case, no matter how sad and tragic it is, and there would be other cases in us in Croatia if we had a better look at and look at some of our municipalities and cities, that is, individual areas where there are smaller or larger polluters depending on what number and population structure we are dealing with, which is that citizens' self-initiative, not just associations, not just political parties, has started to appear, but citizens themselves who have felt the problem that arises and fractures over the quality of their children's health and themselves, etc. And in this segment, it is quite clear that we too support and personally support any debate that will allow in a certain way public control of the state's conduct in law enforcement through associations, through citizens, etc. But it is not a quality in this regard, the quality of this case in that part that this public incentive has actually encouraged additional state bodies at the level of the central government, the ministry, and at the level of the regional organisation of the Ministry of Exposition in the county and in the city to take additional measures because it is seen here that not only measurements have already been made but these measurements can potentially affect people and the environment's negative health. So a lot is done in the business, it is now important to ensure that one of the strongest, not one but certainly the strongest economic operator in Croatia today, actually brings the executive power into a position not only to pay for sanctioning harmful consequences but to even more to ensure the means to implement the disaster management plan until it provides that technology that will actually disable such parts that lead to air pollution, and especially such a type to endanger human and animal health in that area. So let me get this straight. I believe that these conclusions should be further extended with additional reports which, under the law, are authorised to obtain and control either by inspection or by law enforcement, and that in this segment we actually qualify for a report from the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to get as important as possible and as many facts and arguments as possible to enable us to take certain measures in this segment. Of course, if certain situations do not occur by then, some of the positions of the promoters of the HSS Club or specifically related to possible measures taken from violations being fined and to the question that, possibly, if it is so dangerous for the protection of the health of people in certain plants and segments to be temporarily, and especially in the peak load of air pollution, they are actually prohibited from doing this pollution, that smog would be less and would not be so negatively affected if the need for individual drives, if necessary then and therefore, would be completely extinguished. Because here it is not a matter of permanent shut-down or industrial potential but in fact here it is a matter of priority for the protection of human and animal health on the one hand and on the other hand for the search for natural and even, if necessary, for state intervention through some specific means of credit to the same manufacturer to get quality resources to move faster into technology that will provide such production that will no longer pollute air and ensure quality jobs, quality production and all that is important. That is why I support all these conclusions that have been proposed, and I think that they should be further qualified to strengthen and support them, and in particular I say I support what the citizens of the city of Sisak have started to protect what is most valuable to us all, and that is the health of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83813	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poirot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83814	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with what you said when you said whether there is a programme for the rehabilitation of Ina's facilities and the resolution of the harmful consequences. Whether funds were planned for this recovery, but I certainly believe that you were also thinking about the reconstruction of the Ine Refinery not only in Sisak but also in Rijeka and about the deadlines and reconstructions that would ultimately result in an increase in environmental protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83815	Replica response, respected representative and vice president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83816	Of course, when it comes to technical and technological restructuring of Ina's production capacities, then I thought of all of it, both in Rijeka and Sisak, but also in connection with the exploitation of gas and oil at our oil and gas sites, you know. But here specifically when it comes to this issue does not refer to this recovery programme, it is a rehabilitation programme that must be implemented by a state-owned company that is privatised. Here it is thought of a recovery program which is authorized to bring a unit of local self-government without will and without the influence of the pollutants, so specifically Ine, if that is the case. The unit of local self-government, if human health is at risk, will also have an obligation to apply specific measures to protect human health and how they are implemented under Article 32 of the law and also has the right to adopt, in accordance with Article 43, specific measures to reduce air pollution, and the money for the implementation of that plan must be paid by pollutants. This is a situation where the unit of local self-government is actually given a legal remedy by the state to protect the direct interests and needs of its people on the ground on which they are located, i.e. its citizens in the achievement and protection of one of the key values and needs, and in such a situation, is a measure which is also given as a means to the local self-government unit if the manufacturer or the polluter does not implement the resolution in accordance with technical technological conditions, and in order to comply with the standards and criteria laid down in this law and the implementation of the acts adopted under this law, including the pollution reduction plan. Here, thank you, beautiful fellow on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83817	Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83818	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here, just a few more words. My colleague Arlovic helped me with his debate, so I'm going to stop somewhere where you said he might be happy under quotes, don't get me wrong again, an event that prompted public opinion and all of us to start thinking publicly as citizens of the city about what's going on. And I'll go back to that word, I'm sorry my colleague Vidovic's gone, I don't always fight with him, just sometimes, which I don't have to tell him, I didn't think that the citizens of Sisak lived happily ever after until '90. And that they don't live now. The citizens of Sisak are far happier than the '90s. And you know what was going on? They were happy to work and no one thought about the future of their children and future generations at that time, not thinking about how much it takes to invest in this particular INA to achieve quality and improve technology, what fellow Poirot has now said, how much has been invested in the oil industry in development at all, in the technological development of the plant? I live in the city and you know how much? 500 metres of air distance from Herbos, another large polluter, but who just one such pressure managed to make Sisak citizens, managed to build, has a burner, is not only more pesticide production but the imagined burner as a pesticide burner, but they burn the drugs and everything that is needed. However, they managed to lift their burner to that level to also measure the quality of air emissions and such filters that they are no longer an indirect danger to the citizens of Sisak. However, there are two large refinery pollutants left that are now so much of a thermal power plant. I support the opening of the debate, the more the consciousness and the public of the people has already matured so much that we have really started to worry about our health but also the environment but I am sorry, I must now say, what perhaps the good intentions of a colleague from HSS to Sisak have turned into a political bickering. It's a media shootout. One good intention of the eco-social association that I supported, which in my opinion is the only right path and the only ones that can tell the public and citizens as an NGO of citizens about what is happening and they are the voice of the citizens and the voice of the people, has become the headline in the newspaper "HDZ boycotted the Sisak citizens' meeting for a healthy life". Why the HDZ when HDZ was not invited at all as a political party. But imagine. At the meeting, we stood as a member of the SDP, Mrs Petir as a member of the HSS, I stood as a member of the HDZ and a parliamentary representative. I haven't seen a fellow Vidic, it doesn't matter whether he was or not. He will support this action and he has already supported it. And they all noticed in that article. Tonight's paper. Everything but me. I was there as Ivanka Roksandić, a citizen of the town of Sisak. Imagine, no one saw a member and a member of the HDZ in me. So I told my colleagues, let's not, let's not politicize when it comes to air protection in Sisak. That's exactly why I'm asking. And I welcome the opening of the debate but with prepared materials, with arguments from 2004 to 2007 what happened? What has the city’s headship done? What did all of us do, what did all of us politicians do? Good Mrs. Petir in "The Voice of the Council" the latest issue says, as a member of the regional organisation of the HSS of central Croatia, is particularly critical with the right to politicians and scientists. I agree. But she has to be critical of herself. According to him as deputy mayor who owes the citizens Sisak a picture of Sisak's health status for two years from which we will see and see and have certain parameters. Let us not have a double standard when we speak as politicians and when we speak to citizens. I'm sorry, that's exactly why I'm getting better about this Sisko situation and not being politicized. I welcome this debate and I think the government must report what this government has done. And then we'll see what happens or doesn't happen. We don't have to go back in time. Let's look to the future. We who are in Sisak see that something is done. And we look forward to what's to be done. I sincerely hope I'm not a prophet. But I sincerely hope that what we're promised and that's that Klaus facility, that it'll be over by the month of August. It will be good if this debate shows that we need to take some more steps towards the refinery. But I'm going back to what I said, and I've been distracted by the reasoning not to conclude, so take a phonogram, and I've been distracted by the reasoning of the conclusion that when you read it, and that's what the citizens of Sisak read, because the media has also reported that they're looking for the closure of the refinery. Let's not close the refinery. I agree with my colleague Arlovic. Let's take some measures, current measures, and therefore there are current measures that can be implemented, but let's not close down jobs in Sisak. I'll close my argument. I support this debate. I want the Christians to finally breathe deeply with their lungs especially our children in the future and please don't even discuss this conclusion or turn the future debate into a political debate. This isn't a matter of politics, this isn't an election year issue. This is a matter of life in the city.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83819	Thank you. We've got one, we've got a correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83820	My colleague, Roksandić, for the second time, I am correcting that we are not proposing the closure of the refinery. I said that we might be thinking that the refinery would stop working for a few hours because of the micro-climate conditions, and you heard me once before. That's what I told you once. I'm also correcting your claim that the deputy mayor didn't send the report. Here's the minister so she can confirm that the County and City report came to the Ministry, but we didn't get it here. We didn't get it here, I hope we get it, so we'll be able to discuss it. Don't talk, don't say that something didn't go away that went away so that those reports were certainly gone at the right time and place. But we didn't get them here at least today.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83821	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And what did the citizens of Sisak do to God to punish them so cruelly? First, they have a mayor who was not elected in the elections but who was forced to buy councilmen and to whom the prime minister yells like a coward. Now they're being poisoned. And today they got a slap from the government. What's the proposer looking for? The Proposer humbly, in secret, quietly, strongly suggests the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is bound to submit a detailed report on air pollution in Sisak and the number of ecological incidents in the oil refinery and the adoption of measures to prevent them. So don't ask for the government's responsibility. Don't even ask for the Minister's responsibility. It's not INA's responsibility. Don't ask to close the refinery. He's asking the government to file a report. So why the government? Why does the promoter ask the government to do this? So who else would ask God's people than the government? Who can access the data if not the government? Who can ask and pay for the measurements? Government. Who can hire experts? Well, someone else but the government. Who has the authority to propose and implement measures? Then again, the government. So it's perfectly logical that this is what the motionary asks the government to do. And what does the government say? The government said in its opinion on the proposal that it believes the Croatian Parliament should discuss air pollution from the Sisak refinery. The government therefore says: "So argue. If you don't have anything else to do and you discuss pollution in Sisak. What do we care? The government is not perfectly concerned anyway." This can't be an environmental debate today. This can't be a health debate. This can't be a debate on industrialization or unemployment in Sisak or refinery in Sisak. Not about the mammal's ironworks. He can't because there's no basis for that debate. The only basis we have is the applicant's explanation. The explanation of the applicants, which says the measures that Sisak-Moslavina County specifically paid for and which were carried out in 2005 and 2006 found 51 times in 2005 to exceed the average daily value of sulphur dioxide and sulphur pipeline 63 times. While these overruns for 2006 are significantly higher, the sulphur pipeline exceeded the round number 100. That's the data we have. These are the basis for the debate. In any case, insufficient. We have a second basis, and today we heard it from a respected minister who lapidally said, "And it was worse in Sisak, so what? It was in 2003, in 2004 it was worse." So people dear if it was worse, and even now if it's bad, then we won't close our eyes over it and say, "Ha, it was. I hope it gets better. Or it will be worse, very important." So this can only be a debate about the government. Her relationship to the 40,000 citizens of this country who may be, perhaps, exposed to pollution. That could be poisoning. Who might get sick because of that. Which of these diseases, and they are not harmless, may die before they die if there is no pollution. And what is the government's relationship? It's contained or summed up in this one sentence and argue. If you'd like to discuss it. He's incredibly insolent. He's cruelly insensitive, he's incomprehensiblely cynical. It's this government's ID. I thought this debate would be brief. That it would be short and serve on pride both to the government and to the Parliament. That the government will say, "Thank you, Proposer, for your warning." We accept this conclusion. We care about Sisko. We care about his people. We care about their health. We'll order the measurements. We'll pay for them. We'll figure out how much pollution there is. We're going to look for the cause of this pollution and we're going to propose measures, but we're not going to let this thing go on like this. It's not gonna happen. It's hard to be a Christian today. It's hard to know that your own government has abandoned you. It's hard to listen to the government's reasoning. I suggest that this argument be multiplied by the Government, I suggest you send it to the Proposer and send it to every Sishkenin, every one of them to his home address, to see Sishkeni. Because this debate is not conducted in a direct transmission, to see Sishken take care of them, to see. Look, you took Zagreb 800 million kuna. Separate the half and help Sisko, the Zagrebers will be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83823	Thank you. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Marco Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83824	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable representative listed at least one ten incorrect allegations, and let me only correct one, and he is not only incorrect but he is also false. It is about selecting the mayor of Sisak, who is legally elected in a legal, legal way, and not the way he stated, by buying a councilman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83825	It's not the mayor's debate, it's the pollution in Sisak, so I would warn everyone who participates in the debate or the replicas to mostly stick to the topic. Because if you don't stick to the subject there are here, the rules of procedure say when, what happens when someone doesn't stick to the subject. And I wouldn't want to use those business provisions. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić also has a correction to the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83826	Well, I have to say, after the usual speech, I've already cited my colleague Stazic to your theatre speech, so I have to make it right, I'm not going to mention the mayor because we said, even though my colleague made a mistake. However, I will state several other incorrect allegations. An incorrect quote cannot be that it will not be and that we do not discuss pollution. There will be discussions when the government submits we ask that the government submit a debate on air pollution in Sisak. We will accept the conclusion that the debate is being held. Let's discuss the conclusion, secondly, it's incorrect that the money has not returned to Sisak. It is just 850 million kunas that are less won by Zagreb that are returned to Sisak, Termoeletran, INA, JANAF, as well as Željezar. These are all companies which, apart from Željezara, I apologize, are registered in Zagreb. And according to this very new law that this government has passed, some of the funds has just returned to the citizens of Sisak, which makes me happy. Because that part of the funds will probably be invested in this problem as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83827	And well, it wasn't the government who passed the law, it was the proposal, and we brought it here in the assembly. Thank you. Third is Mr. Representative Ivo Loncar, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83828	So here's my old friend Nasha, in his theatre demagogue speech, he said, and I quote, "What has Sisak deserved to be systematically poisoned today.", finished quote and adds: "This is the government's relationship to 40,000 citizens."I guess he meant Sisak. That's completely incorrect. Well, I'd remind him of the next one. It seems to me that Sisak existed since '45. '90s. when the Croatian Democratic Party of Democratic Change ruled. Sisak also seemed to have existed between 2000 and 2003. So I'm asking you and myself if there were any problems you're talking about back then, Comrade Nasho. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83829	It's, like, it's, it's not a story, it's more like a replica than a correction to an incorrect quote. But I would remind you, Mr. Loncar, that our colleague's name is not Nenad Stazic, but Nenad Stazic, and that it would be correct for us to refer to each other or name each other as we were named when they signed him up, and not to be friends here now. I don't think that's right. ... Oh, in what context. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So let's not do that. Let's just stay here and discuss how to discuss it. But here, well, I won't argue. But here's Mr. Nenad Stazic, who picked up a plate for the breach of his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83830	I thank you for your protection, Mr. Vice President. It was meant to be the meaning of my intervention to protect the integrity of this House from those who unfortunately cannot keep it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83831	Thank you very much. By lifting a plate, the Rules of Procedure are automatically tied to mentioning an article of the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have a breach of your rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83832	Mr. Vice President, I'll tell my dear colleague, may I begin that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83833	No, no, it's who it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83834	Article 209, Article 209, because it interpreted it wrongly. So my dear colleague, and I will leave this friend for the future some time, even though this beautiful word in Croatian is not forbidden, nor is it even forbidden in our rules of procedure. And our Rules of Procedure is kind of a small constitution for us MPs. So I had no intention of insulting anyone, and at least my old friend Nash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83835	It's not Article 209 when an agent is asked to...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83836	And he's got seven indents.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83837	No, there's no 7 indents, there's no correct reference to that number. And I don't think it's right. I really wanted to avoid this kind of throwout and I didn't have to repeat neither dear nor fellow Nasho, again Nasha, his name is not Nasha but Nenad and I think that's the way it should be. I beg all, without distinction which foreigners belong to us to speak at least correctly to the representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I'm really asking you not to jump out of that good custom that we've had so far. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83838	... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83839	Thank you very much. If you knew that to hurt you, you'd talk a little differently. But the path to what is bad is cross-eyed by good intentions and statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83840	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83841	Thank you. It's Mrs....
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83842	Shame on you. I don't give you my word, shame on you. Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83843	If it were possible for me to pretend that we didn't listen to this and your objections, but here we all are, I'm sorry that this is how it happens here in the assembly room. This is inappropriate for representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking you to refrain from it, so maybe a lot of us won't be here for a long time together, a couple of months, to support it at one level that's civilized and I'm asking you to, here's our representative, Mrs. MP, my colleague, she's pissed off, it can qualify and create riots in the assembly, but the mess is caused by something, etc. I think so, and I really ask you to refrain from this sort of thing if we can at all. It is Mrs. Mirjana Brnadić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83844	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here I would be involved in a debate on this topic that is really interesting for everyone, and as a health worker I will say what is known to everyone, that air protection against pollution is the basis of human health protection and the state is obliged to take all available measures to protect air from excessive pollution. Air pollution in the part of Sisak, or more specifically in the village of Caprag, is not since last year, nor since 2004, but goes back at least 20 years. And I have to say that in Sisak I was the only time away in 1984 and that I remained very uncomfortable with the unpleasant smell of air and couldn't wait to get out of that city. We all know that business facilities that can pollute air by their production process are obliged to take all necessary measures to reduce harmful emissions to legal concentrations. The Sisak oil refinery was built long ago in 1926, in 1927 on outdated technology and was systematically not invested in modernization, which of course resulted in air pollution above the permitted values and could undoubtedly endanger the health and quality of life in Sisak. I agree it's a good thing this isn't a taboo topic. Let us remember the Glinica factory in Obrovec which the profession knew was the wrong investment, but no one dared to say publicly and which fortunately is quickly closed, and the consequences of the recovery unfortunately are borne today by us who live in Croatia. And get back on the subject. For me, the fundamental question is who failed to take the necessary actions in the refinery of oil in Sisak in the past. In response to this question, I keep this conclusion of the HSS club late and political. Why? Because in the story of concern for the well-being of citizens, we need to move from word to action. In 2002-2003 air pollution in Caprag was higher than in 2006 and 2007, so the HSS, which was then in the government, did not open the debate in the Parliament and asked the Government to participate actively in implementing plant recovery measures, thus achieving air protection from pollution and the citizens of Sisak would not protest and be welcomed in 2004 when the first automatic measurement station was set up at which citizens could see the level of pollution at any time. Also, at a time when we are fighting for each job, I hold a very irresponsible explanation of HSS, and we cannot know what they meant under their own claim, but we must read what they have explicitly written, and in their explanation, not in the display, but in an explanation that naturally complements the ZUP's disposition, it says that we are looking for, quote: "We are looking for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to engage more actively in the realization of this conclusion immediately prevents the poisoning of the citizens of Sisak and the surrounding areas in a way to shut down the plants in Sisak which are the cause of such a bad situation." If the drives were shut down, of course, the employees would be out of work and out of existence. I respect the concerns and indignation of the people of Caprag, not to be politicised but to help and to see what this government has done in its mandate and what results it will bring, and I support the opinion of the Government and the conclusions of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83845	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Kolar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83846	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with an associate, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a few suggestions, maybe, because in front of the HSS club, proposals for conclusions have been made, but since I come from one area where intensive production and the environment are not to call it polluted, but in the environment there is intense production, in any case attack on nature, on people, on the environment, the state of things is quite understandable. So that such things would not be the occurrence of silent events in this country, that measures are not taken, I assure you that neither the arrangements systems are crucial but are crucial people, executives and those who realize that nature is borrowed, that it is now our existence, that we must preserve and give generations behind us for pleasure and management. All those who understood this did not mind either the socialist system, nor the capitalist system, would not mind or change their systems because they were implementing measures and implementing measures that must be implemented to protect people, the environment, the health of people and that there is no such degradation. So today when we're discussing ourselves, we have to ask everyone together, who missed the time in which this situation is. It is logical, from our point of view, that it is the majority owner who imposes a pace, which discusses how to manage resources, the environment and, most importantly, the health of people. It's been missed a lot, they haven't taken measures, the owner has exploited the mineral wealth, he's exploited people as economic factors, he hasn't paid attention to himself, we've got incidents now, we've got agents whatever we want to say, and it's production that disrupts people's health. Obviously, at this time, consciousness and citizens weren't at the level they were supposed to be at. Only when the public is sensitized and the administration has started and all those who have to worry about it have to react in one way. Of course it's too late because time is over. But in any case, we need to draw attention to that our regulations, our legal acts, if you want the rules of the little guy hitting on the head, the big one past all these legal acts neatly into big buildings, they're taking advantage of all of us together, and what's supposed to happen isn't happening. It takes huge, huge resources to protect the environment. Sometimes it is questionable and economical usability of a particular object. But it's no longer a question now whether or not it should be, but rather an imperative obligation. So don't let this be an attack on the government. This is actually a requirement for the government to force, and it is already said, the local community is trying to do its part, trying to force pollutants to behave with dignity, that it does everything that needs to be done, and that the right that a citizen has to do on a healthy air, to a healthy environment, because as long as you have an aggression on the environment, which these data are accurate, and I can say at this time that I am a participant with four mandates where I am a participant in monitoring the environment, on the central... Molve, where it means from the Medical Institute of all those, the Faculty of Forests, the Faculty of Agronomics, where the science of Croatia is included with consulting, external companies, where not only is the situation monitored on that ground, but parallel data is compared with the field where absolutely such pollution does not exist and no incident or incident can be made in this regard. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact tells us when environmental protection is at one appropriate level, that we barely differ in one part, when air pollution increases. In some segments, it's questionable alive. This is all the other way around the border. And if that kind of data exists, if we can get that information from this government and if someone forced all these entities from the thermal power plant, the INA, the hardware to do it, then believe me, we've done a lot. But if we didn't, I suggest we set up a monitoring that would be and the local community cost because it cost us one study somewhere about 70 grand that we had to finance it and pay it, so we could even get parallel data. Because it's easy to measure the data and say the border measures are like this, and the cross-border ones are like that. Sometimes border measures don't mean anything to you, they devastate the environment, they endanger people's health because we're not all the same and we don't subject to all the parameters equally. While cross-border, if they're an exact precipice that they actually don't end up with us, they end up on some other ground, and it all falls into the water together. So this is really one good intention, and that's what I'm experiencing. And I'm one of the participants I'm involved with all the time. And believe me, I've had a hard time with water pollution being said to be bigger at the source than when the water from the technology process gets into that same receptive. And while it's explained to me that it's similar to a gemist, then I just realized that actually wine can be extremely good but when it's diluted with water that it's more piety than gemist. But nothing happened in that wine. You just have to drink a lot more to have the wine that you got. However, we have never dealt with it, and we will never rest. So science has to convince us if the source is zero and one adds that it's no longer zero but one. And since it's diluted with a large amount, nothing's happening to us. But we don't go from category to category to jump to meet some regulations, and yet our regulation says that water flow has to be other categories, it's not drinking water and nothing's happening in the environment. It's an illusion. That and this and all the data that the government is likely to substrate. It's got to be well-founded and there's got to be a possibility of a comparative. Comparations similar to such systems somewhere with a territory where such pollution doesn't happen, and then we can say, this pollution is harmful to this, to this population, this for animals, for plants, for the environment. I believe that I do not know if there is a state of the environment, whether it is followed, I am talking about the soil that is the indicator of all pollution and which consciously or unconsciously but constantly absorbs all changes and changes. We're contaminants. I have to tell you, after ten years, we've only discovered it on the ground. We couldn't even go to vegetation because it was being renewed, and we weren't even on human beings because they were resilient. However, the soil showed us all those contaminants that have been lying down for ten years. If Sisak, if MoIve, if ten other such destinations had zero before he started such an exploitation, we would be happy people. Then we'd just know what the environment really is. And these are the measures we get now, and I'm afraid we accept them as necessary, but they're dangerous, they're here, we hear people's health is disrupted, and that's when the bell rings at the alarm, but really at the alarm. And it's only for the government to implement legal acts, help the local community to force all those contaminants, contaminants, whatever they're called, those who exploit certain resources, to come down to a minimum as soon as possible or to be gone. And that there is no question of money, because believe me neither the INAs, nor any good entrepreneur, are not questionable assets because sooner or after the funds have to be given, but the question is whether they can produce and be participants in production at all. And I believe that the INA that has the resources, which with a huge gain, could have been a little before now, but if it makes the sea reach the level that world standards and our standards that I have to say even in some stricter criteria than they are worldly. Because the world is a little bit more liberal, they'd rather me and the pollution... It's because we're not the same as them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, so let's make this a real boost. But as much data as possible, the monitoring should be possible to combine with one of similar or such destinations, so that we know what zero is, which is really a state now, because the real state is now telling us about the moment that the conjecture is polluted and then we could just have the right debate open. And I believe that the government also stands at the point of view that the measures that will be taken will also be rigorous, swift, and will benefit all of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83847	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Marko Shirac's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83848	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Our colleagues from the Croatian Peasant Club have proposed to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion that would oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed report on air pollution in Sisak and numerous ecological incidents from the oil refinery and on the adoption of measures to prevent them. I must point out that, looking at this conclusion in principle, I had no objection to discussing this conclusion in this Croatian Assembly. To assess whether it is necessary to ask the Government for a report like this and in my assessment it should be another report that would give a picture of the state of environmental protection in the City of Sisak and its surroundings. But what bothered me in this proposal? From which I concluded that this should not be a debate on such an important subject as environmental protection in the City of Sisak where I truly feel for these citizens, our citizens living there in one, one environment that is such. And we all know why she's like that. We know that Sisak was an industrial centre in the former state where there were large factories, ironworks, refineries, power plants, "Radonja" and I don't know, "Cafileria" and ask God what wasn't in Sisak whether it was all antiquated, old industry, which, where environmental protection is not only the air of air gentlemen of the air but all the ecological parameters were minimal. That's not what you cared about at all. As a matter of fact, it will take Saul, or the winds will blow, and it will carry the winds somewhere else. And the citizens will get rid of it, they won't react to it. That this city was on the front line for five years, that it was destroyed, and that these people made an extraordinary effort to keep this industry alive at all. And now, in the light of this conclusion that we should actually discuss today, there are a number of parameters about the excess of air quality in Sisak that are not supported by any relevant facts. It is well known that in the town of Sisak it is 20 years ago that two classical air quality stations have been established. That one is located in the city center and in the residential industrial zone, and that in 2004, our Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning built a measuring station, automatic and measuring station. If the measurements in Sisak were to be carried out through the Institute of Public Health and the Institute of Medical Research which, here I could now specify all the parameters measured on one and the other at the other station. That this measurement system is now linked to this refinery, the Sisak refinery. That it is possible for the citizens of Sisak to know at any moment on one monitor what is the state of air quality in Sisak, and here I have heard from my colleagues today that a sound device that signals has been installed. So for this reason, I would not be able to accept this conclusion by calling for other opinions without proper documentation. In particular, I think that our colleagues, in the light of the conclusions, are stating that they are asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia to engage more actively in the realization of this proposed conclusion. It immediately prevents the poisoning of Sisak and the surrounding citizens in a way that closes a suitable factory in Sisak, which is the cause of such a bad condition. Well, um, um. Only one who really knows nothing about this issue in Sisak does not know that since 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a programme of measures and two programmes. One short-term, one long-term. One of the short-terms that already delivers results. I don't think in the debate on this conclusion there's any need to detail now what the government has brought, but the long-term security program is to restructure the current Sysca refinery or build, build a new one. Certainly, Mr. President, here is the debate, and it has shown that such serious topics are important for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia and especially citizens in Sisak are trying to politicise. I advocate as our Committee, the Committee has come to the conclusion that we accept the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will come up with a report describing the situation in the city of Sisak as regards the quality of air, but not only with regard to air quality but also with other environmental protection parameters and in which it will also give an overview of the measures and activities it has undertaken that this problem in Sisak in a short period of time, and it is not necessary to encourage the restructuring of the mammal industry in some months or two days. That this is a process that will certainly last two or three years and maybe four years for which there are as many programs as I know how to make for some objects. In particular, in this refinery, one of his colleagues read from the pay phone today that contracts were concluded and that they were on their way to realisation. Therefore, Mr. Vice-President, I support it in the Croatian Parliament after obtaining a report from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to open a serious debate without politicising and that we either criticise the Government if we are not satisfied with this or to accept what it is that it proposes a solution to the situation in Sisak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83849	We have one replica, Mr. Krono Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83850	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I just wanted to replicate a little bit about the short-term problem resolution in Sisak. It's like we forgot all along that the former government sold MOL the right to decide and that the government simply agreed with MOL and couldn't do anything about it. And that generous little money we actually lost the right to decide. I think Sisko's problem might have been solved faster if it hadn't been for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83851	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83852	I thank my fellow representative Markovanovic for drawing attention. It's just one of the problems, but as far as I'm aware this government has successfully solved this problem with MOL and there's no more difficulty in making a new refinery in Sisak, to restructure all these plants that are today problematic and to solve the issue and quality of air to one level that will be bearable for our citizens to have a healthy environment and to be able to live politely in their city and work at work and earn money.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83853	Thank you. It is Mrs. Ljubica Brdarić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83854	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. I went out with my party colleagues, but then I came back, although I was as revolutionized as they are, to discuss the health of more species. Apart from the physical and mental as there are various kinds of chemical toxins there are mental, and I ask you to, to protect us here in the assembly against those others and to prevent a bad and unhealthy atmosphere in the assembly. You are currently responsible for this. The problem of Sisak citizens and the poison they are poisoning cannot be resolved quickly, we are aware of it, but if there is a will we can solve very quickly and easily, and not allow the revolving MPs to leave the assembly. Now let's get back to the point we've been discussing all afternoon. And get back to some things we can all agree on. And one of them is certain that a healthy man has a thousand wishes and only one is sick. That the basis for putting this point on the agenda is the fact that the health of the citizens of Sisak and the surrounding area is compromised and we can agree on that. That there's something to be done and it's not controversial. So why can't we talk constructively about it, and then why do we claim that some are politicizing when they ask for this problem to be talked about, and some are genuinely concerned about the citizens of Sisak. Those who do not live in Sisak can talk about this problem as a political problem. For them, that may be a political issue. For the citizens of Sisak, that's a question of life. Their fundamental human rights, the right to a healthy environment, to health have been compromised. And they were put in a position to put them ahead of the choice whether health or misery, death by cancer or poverty. I don't want it to be like that. I am among those who think that the problem needs to be solved by modernising, meaningful economic policy, by acting in accordance with all environmental laws. Because it looks like we'd just have to learn what the old Indian chief knew a long time ago. The earth does not belong to man, the man belongs to the earth. And he doesn't own it, but he does for a while, and he's obliged to leave it to his descendants in a better condition. And our constitution says, our laws and we ourselves claim that man is fundamental to us. Is that the man who can't live on his work, his salary and who can't open the windows of his apartment or house and breathe normally? I don't think so. If we are truly concerned about those people we talk about, then let's talk seriously. Then I find it inappropriate to offer an opinion from the Government that looks at wonders and generosity that the Croatian Parliament should discuss air pollution from the Refinery Sisak, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will report on the measures it has taken since 2004 and 2007. And I can't help but remember that some colleagues are discussing this afternoon, formal matters, whether this is just a debate on whether to accept the conclusion of the HSP club, HSS, pardon or not as a technical problem. I think it's about the scale problem, the humanity, the compassion, the understanding and the responsibility of whoever owns it. And besides who is obliged to take care of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all aspects of life. If the Government were to meet in Sisak, not in Mark’s square, we might already have a full report in front of us today and a proposal for possible solutions. Since that's not how we and the citizens of Sisak and the surrounding area are going to have to wait for that report, I hope for all of us not long. And it would be good to use this problem of Sisko and the environment as a cause for basic analysis, because I believe that places where life is not healthy have more and that people with similar problems have far more than in this case Sisak and refineries. The citizens I believe are already tired of talking about what the former coalition government did, so she before her, and what she did or didn't do. It's been three years, and it's been declassified to talk about exes. Because this present one could soon become an ex. I hope that we will welcome a government that will do what citizens expect it to do, solve problems, and not an excuse for what it has not done itself to seek continuously in those who have passed. Gentlemen, those who have passed pass precisely because the citizens are not satisfied for this reason or for that reason. I wouldn't be saddened if this government became former, for a number of reasons, but I think it is due now as long as it is in office to take care of all its citizens, as well as the citizens of Sisak and the surrounding areas and take concrete measures now and here and not in the future. This is a government that requires life to begin with, which awaits a good will in promises, a faith in promises. I may have some understanding and time to wait, but the citizens of Sisak don't have that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83855	Thank you very much. Mrs. Representative, you warned me here at the beginning of your speech that I was responsible for the conduct of the order or for maintaining order in the assembly. You said that well because I am the chairman, according to article 213 of the session, the chairman provides. I was trying to secure that order, but there was an outcry between the two MPs without asking for a word. So the lady representative with the low tone "be ashamed" until after six or seven times he was such that there was a big noise here. I couldn't get a word of it, and I understood the reaction of the representative lady, because otherwise she deserved a warning by her behaviour, and she deserved a warning on the basis of point 6 that by her conduct she was deviating from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly because she was too much of a fuss in the assembly. I've gone over it as many times as I've ever been when I should've assigned a note. In addition to that noise being unbearable here, the representative lady slammed the door of the assembly so that the door was well shaken, we heard all of it. I have twice pointed out to Loncar's representative for inappropriate address to his colleague, Nenad Stazic, and I don't know what you expected me to do further. So let him who runs the session and leads and is responsible for the conduct of the session and do not need to remind me that I am responsible for the conduct of the session, for it is written in the Rules of Procedure. Here, Mrs Ivanka Roksandić came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83856	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. An esteemed colleague said if the government were to meet in Sisak then something would be resolved. On October 26th, the government met in Sisak and made some decisions, and regarding Ina, they were in the press, and there was no waiting for this report and this incentive for everyone, but on July 15th, so before 2006. The government asked Ina to develop a programme for modernising the refinery within four months of the date of entry into force of the decision and to approach the abolition of the marketing of liquid oil fuels that do not meet the prescribed standard and that same year, the minister and everyone in Sisak held a meeting in November. That's when something started. But, however, I'm not saying that in Sisak the condition is good. It's not and we need to open a debate. There's a debate to be opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83857	Thank you. Let's move on. Before I give my word to the minister, I would still ask that five minutes on behalf of the club be addressed by Mr. Representative Tonci Tadic and then you ministers and the promoter if he wishes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83858	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen. This topic is about all of us, about the health of our fellow citizens and about one fundamental dilemma, whether the Parliament can tolerate someone's assembling profits at the expense of our fellow citizens' health. If we are responsible representatives, then we will commit ourselves to this subject in a responsible way, instead of insults and names, underestimations and so forth. I've been trying to get my colleagues in the club all the discussions of a guy like this to avoid and to focus on this subject with arguments, so I'm going to do it now. So I believe that even the government may have planned something about Sisak, but the fact is that the key shift occurred on the day that the Sisak City Headship took part in the HSP as a coalition party, decided to confiscate Ina for what was going on in Sisak. In fact, it was the beginning of the whole story and eventually caused a whole series of political moves and citizens of Sisak and NGOs, and eventually it encouraged colleagues from the HSS to ask for these conclusions, which are in themselves understandable. What's wrong with someone asking the government to file a report on the state of the air in Sisak? I mean, it's our constitutional provision that we have to respect to protect the health of our fellow citizens and to protect the environment and colleagues from the HSS have literally understood and asked the government to report on it. The government, however, is responding in a way that I must admit confused me, the government says let the Parliament discuss it. What am I going to discuss if I don't have detailed information with the government's views and the data? You'll excuse me if the reverse situation is that HDZ is in opposition and the SDP team is in power, I'm sure the present minister and the rest of the HDZ team would be running around the government all day. Now, of course, that's not how it's done. Now you tolerate it like that, so listen, you argue, and we'll see. The situation is not to be underestimated. So in early January, in Sisak, an amazing high level of sulfur dioxide was measured, which was three and a half times the permitted level of gasoline was more than two and a half times that allowed. The problems are clear. The problem is that Russian oil is refined and that's not unknown. The problem is that "Mol" is co-owner of Ina and dictates supply. The problem is that Yukos is the majority owner of Molla and as a Russian firm dictates that Russian oil is purchased and refined. But now we come up with a key question, what is it that the government is as co-owner, as a representative of Croatia, as co-owner of Ina, has done to force the Ina administration to modernise the refinery in time? More specifically, what did she do from 2003 to today? So this was known to happen, could be assumed, the moment Inna was privatized. Unfortunately, modernization is delayed and our main observation is in fact how it was possible to delay all three or four years of modernization that it will not actually be completed until 2009 or in full 2011, when we will be able to talk about cleaner air in Sisak. So don't let anyone tell me that Ina doesn't have any money for this. You will forgive these refineries in a way that is designed to refine Arab oil or Croatian oil that is not filled with sulfur and benzene and, of course, not adapted to this. But in the meantime, the price of barrels has increased and oil derivatives have increased further. And in this INA difference, he makes a lot of money because he refines about a third or a quarter of his domestic oil for which he pays absolutely nothing, because he has it from his own wells. So, there's room for modernisation. It's just a matter of weightiness, it's a matter of inertness, it's a matter of INA's irresponsibility that doesn't work. And that's what Sishkens warn about, and that's where they have our full support. And the government will also have support if it acts responsibly and presses the INA to do what is expected of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83859	Minister Marina Matulović Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83860	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know. I mean, I think we're really in a weird way here listening and talking. In more debates, it turns out that nothing has been done before than the citizens of Sisak set out in protest meetings. Of course the citizens of Sisak have the right to go to protest gatherings. But did you hear nicely that in 15.7.2004, the government first met on the basis of the ministry's report met with a complete problem. She assigned INA to build a program, INA made a program, we fixed it three times, brought the program, gave consent to both, started the works. Thus, it could not be done to thank God or to receive a building permit or to begin with the work of the day of the protest. I ask you nicely, we fully understand people in Sisak and we want them to be better, to have cleaner air. But I'm saying we did everything we could. That they no longer use sulphur above 1%. So, and this data, Mr. Tadic, that you said, is not accurate. And we have exactly how many overruns and where? What location? So you know everything. And just one more thing to say. The government isn't heartless, because it's simply impossible to say. For all that the government has done around Sisak without talking about everything else about environmental protection and waste management and the like. And without any pressure, she began to solve the problem on her own. Of course, with all the participants and the city and the county, if necessary, and with them. So, we'll get on with the job. As for the report, we are obliged to give it to the Government anyway, because the Government, because the law in Article 19 clearly states that if the limits are exceeded, the Ministry must give the Government a report and propose measures. Therefore, whether you hire us or not, we are obliged to discuss it and to discuss it. That's what we do. We did this in 2004, because it happened in 2002 and 2003, informed the government, the government discussed it in 15.7.2004 and brought it all in. You'll get details of what was done at the time. They also appeared again and beyond the allowed limit, we made a report, the report will go to the government, and it will come to the Parliament. But I just can't accept that we're insolent and that nobody's doing anything and that they're talking to us like that and saying that the government said that you can discuss it. That's not true. The government said the Parliament needs to discuss it, and it can't. The government knows Croatian. So there's a big difference between can and should. Therefore, we have made clear and loud what we want to do and for what we want to inform you all together. Therefore, you will receive a detailed report, of course if you vote this, that proposal which the Committee both made and finally our Government, is its opinion on it. And I'm sure this government will continue with all its environmental affairs because don't forget and remember what happened in 1.1.2004. I don't want to talk about it all the time. But when we're called this way, it's necessary to say it this way, because 30 or 50 years no one has done anything. Now that it's done, of course, that it's about talking and attacking the government because it hasn't done it anymore. We've done as much as we can. If we could have done more, we'd have done more. But the citizens of Sisak certainly believe that the situation will be better because we told them that in Sisak, we told them that when we visited the refinery and believe that it will be. And We have not let them down, and we will not let them down.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83861	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83862	Dear lady! I found the information in the press. And the problem with you is that you didn't give that information. Namely, the government has said that the Parliament is discussing but the Parliament is a note of bene... without your report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the only data I have is what I found in the press. Therefore, deny me and file a report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83863	On behalf of the promoter of these conclusions, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83864	Thank you very much. So I'm going to start with what the minister just said and call on article 19. It is true, Minister, that you will submit a report to the government because that is what the Air Protection Act obliges you to do. Article 19 states that the Ministry is obliged to inform the Government of areas where the level of pollution is higher than the tolerance value, the results of measurement in these areas and measures and deadlines for achieving a level of pollution than the tolerance values. I repeat, these measures and deadlines to achieve a level of pollution less than tolerance values. Report for 2004 you said you did. Based on him, there was law and some activity. You have a report for 2005. You have for 2006 and we here in the Parliament, and the public has no deadlines and measures, deadlines and measures when we will achieve a level of pollution less than tolerance values. See, that's exactly what we're asking of you. We at the HSS Club were convinced that already today we will succeed through this debate in the Assembly, incentivize to improve the quality of air in Sisak for a simple reason because things must start from a dead end. Today's government statement we're interpreting that she's been deaf rather than involved in solving the problem. Even more so, we are called to politicise the issue simply because we believe that the citizens of Sisak do not have to be citizens of the second or even third order. Do we understand the alarm system here? Do we want to act now and now, as citizens expect from us? Obviously not, because the government doesn't want to give us reports that it owns. It does not deny our allegations of overdosage of daily values for sulphur hydrogen, sulphur dioxide and benzene. Excessive values in 2005 for sulphur dioxide 17 times more than allowed. And the sulfurconductor about 10 times the allowed value. So when are we gonna get the measurements and deadlines to change that? The figures from 2006 tell us that the situation has changed since 2005. But the situation has changed to worse. Not for the better than it's changed to worse. We don't want to read about it in the papers, we don't want to look at pictures. Let's look at the chart on the state of the forest in Sisak and the surrounding area and about the state of the trees. You can see exactly what the health of the trees is like. I am absolutely certain that the state of health of people is not different. Let's read tomorrow in the press what we did in the Parliament, what the government did, what the Ministry did. We'll reopen the debate in Parliament. After a few hours, a debate was held on this subject. It's unusual, very unusual, perhaps for the first time in the Parliament. We discussed it without the bases we didn't get and we had to get them. We discussed it without a report and it is undeniable that these reports exist and that the government has them. Which is why we didn't get them and when we get them and if we get them, we don't know. And that's why we're just at HSS dissatisfied. But we still thank everyone for the debate. The fact that the HSS raised this issue does not mean that we are dealing with politics without concern for the environment and human health. Today we all missed our chance together. We hope that the attached conclusion will be accepted and that at the next session we will get a detailed report on air pollution in Sisak and numerous environmental incidents but hopefully we will talk about some other places in Croatia where the situation is very similar to this situation in Sisak, but today it is not a topic. Finally, of course, we want measures to be taken to prevent further incidents and to act on improving the quality of air in Sisak and to change the negative impact on human and tree health in the finality. We made a concrete contribution today. We have suggested reducing oil participation with a large amount of sulfur in the processing. I hear from the minister that she tells me it's already done but I certainly know that it can be done and further to reduce that sulphur involvement even more. Well, you see, that's exactly what we'd like. To make an additional effort to make INA less profit but to make the citizens of Sisak more healthy. That was our concrete proposal. We didn't get any evidence. We hope to get him as soon as possible. We hope for the first session when we discuss this conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83865	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83866	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the representatives of counterpart Pecek persistently state in his presentations the incorrect allegations. I'll just have one correction. The government has disobeyed the request of the Croatian Peasant Party or the Club of Representatives to submit a report. Well, gentlemen, you didn't ask the government. You are asking from the Croatian Parliament and today we were actually supposed to have this debate for 20 minutes only on your proposal for a conclusion. And you imposed this debate when we do not have a report available, a measuring report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which in its opinion replied that it was ready to deliver the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83867	Thank you. Thank you. It was useful to hear it all. If I can spot from this place not only to ask the government for a report on what she's done but at least 10 years ago what's happened? To make a comparative analysis. ... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And then to see what someone did, how much did he do, and what should he do? It's like this for two years and that's the way it is. So you need to talk about it. Thank you. Finalising debate on this agenda item
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83868	Secondly, the proposal for a conclusion that is bound by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed report on air pollution in Sisak and the number of ecological incidents from the Refinery of Oil and the adoption of measures to prevent them. The proposed conclusion is the Club of Representatives of the HSS. And instead of the conclusion of the 3rd parent board, it is proposed that instead of saying "indemnity" the word "need", it is proposed, which refers to proposing that the town of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County deliver a report on the business activities and measures under its jurisdiction, because it cannot be that, the parliament can not assign the town of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County, it can propose. I am voting that conclusion of the parent committee with this amendment. We can vote. The result? 75 for, 8 abstentions, 2 against. The only change is that it is not in charge of the parliament's conclusion that the city of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County is in debt but that it is proposed, because the parliament cannot lend either the city or the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83869	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I'm asking for clarification. We're not clear now what we voted for about Sisko and air pollution. Is the conclusion of the HSS accepted because we voted only on the committee's proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83870	We voted on the conclusion of the Committee's proposal. It's a proposal from the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83871	And you didn't put the HSS's conclusion to the vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83872	Well, there isn't, when the board's conclusion is that it's been reformed and there's no other initiative or suggestion anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83873	Interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83874	That's a vote. What you're looking for is basically the same thing. What you were looking for is what the board reformed and that conclusion of the board on it was also voted only instead of the word "necessary" – "proposed".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83875	By the way, those reports have long been in the ministry, so we've unnecessarily brought...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83876	Now if they are, they are. Okay. Then they'll come to us sooner.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83877	and we move on to: - Final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project "Integration of Trade and Transport". It's an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 626. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. ... agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have accepted the application of the emergency, you have received the proposal in boxes in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure. United first and second reading. The debate was held by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the report at the session. And the Finance Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary for the Sea at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83878	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project of integration of trade and transport provides for the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to guarantee, as a guarantee, the timely and accurate payment of all loans, for which the borrower in this case is obliged to pay the Board's port administration in accordance with the loan agreement. The aim of the project is to improve the capacity, efficiency and quality of the services of the southern edge of corridor 5C to meet the needs of the intended transport with a specific focus on the port of Ploče as well as aspects of co-ordination of all participants in the corridor. The port of Ploče as a port of national importance and along the port of Rijeka, our most important freight port provides assumptions for its further development through this project. For an example, which will show the justification of this project, I would single out the fact that in January of this year, 400 thousand tonnes of cargo were overloaded in the port of Ploče, so when compared to the year 1998, we can conclude that more burdens were overloaded in the last month than in the whole of 1998. This therefore indicates in a certain way the eligibility of entry and financing of this project. Otherwise, the ports are a driver of development in the Republic of Croatia, so a special review should certainly be given to the port of Ploče, which is not only a driver of development in the part of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. It is of particular interest certainly for the development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia, and it is also very important to have a transport route and a driver for the development of the economy throughout the region. I would therefore clearly say of crucial importance for the transport system of the Republic of Croatia to invest in a project of integration of trade and transport in the port of Ploče with which we can clearly further develop the entire transport and economic system in the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, the project of integration of trade and transport of the port of Ploče involves three segments. The first segment is the development of the Ploče port infrastructure, which provides for the construction of a decommissioned cargo terminal, the construction of a container or multi-purpose terminal, the construction of a road rail energy infrastructure in the area of the port and the construction of entrance ports. The second segment is also the integration of trade and transport, which means the development and improvement of the modern port electronic communications system, which will facilitate the information flow in corridor 5C by defining the integration of documents based on international standards. And third, the third segment of the project is the implementation of a project that involves staff training... project project management, procurement and financial management and support for procurement and translation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wanted to say that this project I would say within a record period agreed with the World Bank because the negotiations with the World Bank in the realisation of the project of integration of trade and transport started in half, i.e. at the end of 2005, and that, over a year, we were practically provided with all the conditions that both the guarantee and the loan contract could be signed. The development of the Ploče port infrastructure, as I said, consists of 3 segments, in a container terminal that involves building a coastal area of 280 metres and which will allow the coast to accept 40,000 containers and on the face of the coast will be a depth of 13 and a half meters, which means that it will be able to receive almost modern ships that bring containers to the Republic of Croatia. The value of the terminal, i.e. the container or multi-purpose terminal, is about 24m euros. And I want to say that the start of work on that terminal will begin this year in July, so in July of the month, because at this moment the evolution of offers and the determination of the most suitable performer is due to the fact that a building permit has been issued. So I think the real thing is quite realistic and justifiable start-up time on that terminal in the 7th month of this year. The project also provides for the construction of a decommissioned cargo terminal to be built by the non-Eastern port on the right side of the Vlaška channel and which is planned to allow about 5 million tonnes per year to be overloaded before its realization. If so, that's the project's realisation plan. I just said he's alone, that in January, 400 thousand tons have already been overloaded. Therefore, this year, if this intensity continues, we can reach the number planned, so the amount of cargo planned in the final phase of 2010 at the port of Ploče. Which means practically that, that the traffic in the port of Ploče is already almost justified today by the investment we planned and planned in 2010. In the second phase, the first phase planned 4 million tons. And in phase two, 5 million tonnes and the value of work on the terminal for burden growth is 45m euros. As far as I'm concerned... infrastructure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It involves building assistance for infrastructure facilities such as road construction and reconstruction, the rail track of energy and the port entrance complex. Otherwise, the entire project, which weighs 91m euros financially, involves funding from these sources. Thus, with the credit of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Budget of the Republic of Croatia. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will finance a project with 11.2m euros, which will also, i.e. a guarantee agreement for the loan, also be very soon here in the Parliament for confirmation and would therefore be financing only one component of the decommissioned burden terminal. While this World Bank loan means 58.8m euros. The share of the Croatian side, therefore direct funding from the state budget is 25% of the total project, which means around 21m euros, which will directly finance certain infrastructure operations at the port itself. Otherwise, when it comes to the World Bank's loan, then it should be said that the deadline is 15 years with a start of 5 years, so it will be paid in 10 years with an interest of 2.7%, which means the euro is fish plus 0.52% of the bank's margin. With the signing of the guarantee agreement, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted two obligations clearly other than the guarantee that the loan would be from the port administration as a credit user properly serviced, an amendment to the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports which was due to enter into force by 23 January this year. At the end of the year, at the end of 2006, in the Parliament, we accepted the amendment of the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports, which practically enabled not only the port of Ploče as a future concessionaire and the current concessionaire of the port of Ploče, but also all concessionaries in the Croatian ports to have heavy stop equipment and port cranes owned, i.e. By amending the law, we have established that port cranes and stop equipment are not an integral part of the maritime goods, which means that where and where easier, it will make it easier for concessionaires to invest in the purchase of these, and the gears and to make it easier for them to provide financially favourable, financial means for the purchase of front-end equipment. Another obligation accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the guarantee contract is that within a reasonable period we will reduce the state stake in the port of Ploče as a concessionary and as a priority concessionary in the face of Ploče. Therefore, given the nature of the process of confirming international contracts and formally expressing its willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract, as well as the fact that changes and additions to the text of the international contract are generally not possible at this stage of the procedure, it is proposed that this draft law be discussed and adopted by means of an urgent procedure, uniting first and second readings. There's so much for this, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83879	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative and Vice-President of the House, Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83880	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We of the SDP Representatives Club will not be able to support the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development because such practices and such contracts have not yet been available. There have been such contracts, and in this respect we have in principle no objection to the fact that in such transactions the state is sometimes a guarantee of a safe payment, i.e. the return of credit to whoever credits us in a specific case to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. But the question is actually being asked, and then why won't we support it? We think first of all that this is about a few important principle issues that need to be discussed before the establishment and as the content of the contract, the position of the Parliament is taken. Namely respected colleagues and colleagues, this loan agreement, on a guarantee, is not only a guarantee contract, it is at the same time a contract that prescribes both the co-financing obligation and, at the same time, in the legal theory, it is called a preparative legal act, which takes over one obligation that is questionable whether we can and whether the Parliament and the citizens of this country will accept it in the way it is planned here. Third, this guarantee contract, and in particular the loan contract which is part of the guarantee contract signed again between Luke Ploca and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is not fully in line with the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, and now something very interesting is happening. For the first time, we have a situation that we have already agreed on part of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia with a guarantee contract, i.e. a loan contract that we have not yet ratified, let alone come into force with respect to the Law of the Sea, and at the same time we announce that we will adopt a brand new law on public procurement because, among other things, this law, that is, we provide for some new amounts and different approaches to direct procurement than the Public Procurement Act. Well, let's get it straight. This 58.8m-euro fund, which will be provided by the Bank for the Reconstruction and Development of the euro in the form of loans, will certainly not be sufficient and will also need to be provided additionally with 11.2m euros to be provided by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, all of which are not enough but still need to be co-financed with 21m euros. First of all, it's interesting why we didn't at least show how much he's in kuna, let's respect his money, let's do 21 million euros, and we here accept the future redistribution of the state budget. This is the first thing that we have a serious objection to. The second thing we have a very serious objection is a question that concerns that this State guarantee contract appears not as a guarantee but in Article 2 it is said as a primary debtor and not only as a guarantee. Therefore, here Luke Ploche is not treated as a debtor, but the Port Authority is all one thing. Let me simplify and specify the precise port administration, it is not a debtor but a debtor of the Republic, practically the primary debtor of the Republic of Croatia, then the Republic of Croatia is under this contract and a Sufinancier and at the same time a guarantee of debts. But if, in any way, the International Bank estimates that the debtor will not be able to meet the obligation, it will meet the obligation and establish a commitment to the primary debtor, it is the Republic of Croatia. Now we come to what's very interesting. In that paragraph, point 2 is said in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 or 203a. The following: Jamaica will take the necessary measures to reduce state ownership in Luce Ploče to no more than 20% in accordance with existing laws and provisions in agreement with the bank. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask a public question on behalf of our club. Will we privatise Luka Ploče in agreement with the World Bank or in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia of this Parliament and, of course, the Privatisation Fund. Are we going to put ourselves in a position to connect the southern, South-Eastern part of Europe and the Adriatic Sea with the Baltic Sea, that the state does not have a control package or even more precisely, even if we do not transfer this control package to the "Sun-Hvar" unit of local and regional self-government. Namely, colleagues, this isn't a guarantee contract. This is much greater said would be the devil that stems from it for the interests of the Republic of Croatia than we do at first sight, and in this situation, this guarantee agreement establishes a framework for future privatisation of Luke Ploče. This is unacceptable to us in the club, and I also think that it hurt even national pride when we have brought ourselves into a situation that the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development will determine in fact the frameworks and scopes and achievements of our privatisation of Luke Ploče, and here we would like to remind that the World Bank consists of 12 countries: Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Georgia, Israel, Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, the Netherlands, Romania and Ukraine. Dear colleagues and colleagues, among other things, there are countries that have a direct interest in Luke Ploca and its privatisation, and it cannot be such a guarantee contract. It also covers the achievement of that contract on these ways of forming the port administration and the board of directors, etc. and not only that, but the impact of governance around the governance structure, and especially around the so-called so-called ". crisis management. Fourthly, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is not only that... but it is said among other things, if the lender is not enough, the money of the lender will not be enough to settle the overestimated expenditure needed to carry out the project, all will be provided by the guarantee, and at the same time the guarantee will give up ownership because it will have to be sold. And what is the instrument of insurance then that guarantee? That he'd actually get his money back if he didn't get it from others. You know if it's even from the lobby, it's too much. Let us not forget we are the Croatian Parliament, leave the party's division to the left, right, center by side, express and articulate different interests, but we still owe globally to protect the national and state interests of our people and our country, regardless of which option we belonged. Here I am not sure that we will ensure this, I think that we have all accepted the guarantee agreement of such an obligation that dictates to us such a space of privatisation that will open up a space for the entry of large-scale capital to the harm of our nation and our country, especially to the harm of achieving that objective of business and transport integration of our economy and the free movement of labour and capital goods from which we need and not others will benefit because they will go through our ports and our space. Of course, it is more and more clear why we have changed the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, where we have actually drawn the port upgrade from the fact that it is no longer a maritime good. It's actually about cranes, cranes and other cargo manipulation equipment. In practice, we open that what the biggest income will bring in ports can be privatized and will not be in it, therefore, must be less than 20% of state property. Do not forget that in this respect, the World Bank treats this not only as direct property but often as indirect property belonging to local self-government units, if accidentally assigned to them. But it's a matter of interpretation now because it's explicitly not assigned, proven, indicated, if it were. Fifth. You see, colleagues, among other things, the guarantee agreement lists several things but states that the component of the guarantee contract is one, attachment two and so on. And now it's very interesting in Appendix two. The national competition referred to in point (a) and that, among other things, is that, in the case of a national competition, it says, contracts awarded on the basis of domestic competitions referred to in the following additional provisions referred to in points (i) to (iii) to (iii). And now this is very interesting. What's that point? This point applies to the area and iv, among other things. purchase guarantees and direct arrangements. The purchase shall, of course, take place from that, goods and equipment whose price has been estimated less than the equivalent of 80,000 euros per contract may be obtained under contracts awarded on the basis of purchase procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Guidelines. In the guidelines, this is an exception which is not on the way to being accompanied by this contract as guidelines. And the question is why? Because a few of the obligations in this contract and the supplements come from those guidelines that we don't know about in detail. And then C. says direct bargaining. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Please, it will not apply and apply the Public Procurement Act, but will be a procurement plan that will be approved by the bank and not by our law. Of course, when it comes to 80 thousand euros times 7.4 let me round up, then it's a lot more than 200 thousand kunas that we so far have as an opportunity to go into a direct excuse relative to the value of the job. Of course, I must in particular stress that there are also specific methods of procurement prescribed by this contract such as the qualifications of consultants, the selection of fixed budgets, the selection of the lowest price, individual consultants, the selection of one source, the choice based on the quality of it.’ And now that it's very interesting in the procurement plan, the contracts that are subject to the bank's previous review will be listed. It's not our State Commission, let's say, about protecting, about implementing the Public Procurement Act. When you take everything together it's so much that's been passed on, so it's not just a financial commitment, but we've transferred a part of the management power to the bank, part of the control power to the bank, and in the end we've opened up the possibility of our constitution,... Our constitution on the market is equal to all the subjects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] E, and especially when it is added three times III, the participation of state-owned enterprises in which it says so, I will quote, because I have to, it is very serious: "The state-owned enterprises that are located and are operating in the area of guarantee, therefore, all companies located in Croatia, will be eligible for participation in the competition only if they can establish and the bank is convinced that they are legally and financially independent, that they are operating under the laws of commercial societies and are not dependent agencies, governments and guarantees." Please, dear colleagues, what does that mean in a situation where the majority enterprise, whom it represents as a representative of the congregation? So the State Agency or the Privatisation Fund, and in this respect it is not and cannot be legally independent because it is obliged to submit a report primarily if it is enterprises of particular interest, and they are all who have more than 50% and that I am not talking about which overweight property here. It's the same when it comes to the board of directors. Therefore, he is not legally independent. This is how we gave the bank an opportunity to make sure or not to convince from case to case how and when they will leave our company that they can compete in these matters at all. And it's a very, very big deal, because it's not just a job in the port administration and the port, but it's also a PC corridor that includes both road and rail infrastructure and, of course, an electrical infrastructure that needs to be provided not only for the port but also for the PC corridor and its connection with Central and Northern Europe to Baltic. For all these reasons, we of the SDP would be most pleased to postpone the adoption of this contract, of this law, and to actually review some of these provisions because it is well said in this emergency procedure as a rule that cannot be changed. But I don't think that under the Constitution we should, as a rule, accept any agreement that is at the expense of our nation, which is at the expense of our future, and for this reason we propose to postpone the vote on this law, the treaty, and to actually make either a formal conclusion or a suggestion, regardless of the Parliament's leadership of the Parliament, the government and the negotiators, that with those who signed the loan agreement and the World Bank together with them, once more review the obligation outside of the guarantee obligations in this guarantee contract and that they change them afterwards and come back to the Parliament for ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83881	Thank you very much. There are no reports, so the secretary of state will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83882	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I think we should look back at several allegations made by the honourable representative, Mr. Arlovic, in his speech. In fact, I really thought at first that the lapus was Mr. Arlovic when you mentioned persistently instead of the port administration of Ploče, the port of Ploče. Because there are three things to light. The port of Ploče as a geographical concept, as a traffic route which implies the territory of the port of Ploče in the Neretva Delta, at the mouth of Neretva. The port administration should be appointed as a public institution owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is fully managed by the port infra and still the substructure at the port of Ploče. Therefore, the port administration is on behalf of the Republic of Croatia an institution which fully manages the maritime goods, coasts, terminals, infrastructure and sub-rustur in the port of Ploče. There's no talk of any privatisation of terminals, coasts, areas at the port of Ploche. This is about the company on the port of Ploče, d.d. which is currently 60% in majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia, 40% is in mixed ownership of mostly small shareholders. So employees of the port of Ploče who are only one of the largest, but only one of the concessionaries who received concessions from the state that they place in the port of Ploče as a geographical concept is represented by the port administration of Ploče. Therefore, this Guarantee Treaty and the Loan Treaty are absolutely not touched, no, it does not question ownership of maritime goods, coastal property, terminal property. Position of the entire maritime goods in the port of Ploče as a geographical concept managed by the state through the competent port administration of Ploče. We, as the Ministry, have already held a series of meetings with the port of Ploče. We've held a series of meetings with the employee union at the port of Ploche. And supported their desire to become the majority owners of the Ploče port, a commercial company, so Ploče port companies, in the privatisation process of the Ploče port in accordance with the positive Croatian regulations. Therefore, the dilemma should be rejected at all, doubting that this Loan Treaty and even more with the Guarantee Treaty that we are confirming here in the law is at stake, the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia over the port of Ploče. I think it's very important to say so that we reject that suspicion. And we have, therefore, been the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a long time in the process of full privatisation of the port of Ploče. In fact, we've been in negotiations with the bank, too, and we've been told long ago that for the purpose of one, and I repeat from the biggest concessionaires, so Ploče's port is to privatise the company in accordance with the needs to make it easier for this company that is a concessionist today, but which is tomorrow if it can't do a quality burden-over service at the port of Ploče to lose that concession. Therefore, it was our goal to allow the port of Ploče through the privatisation of the port of Ploče, a commercial company that is a concessionary of the purchase of bulk equipment at the port of Ploče and that we do not need to finance this by additional borrowing from the State budget to purchase all the stop equipment at the port of Ploče. And that's our goal. This is our plan to privatise this company regardless of the World Bank's position whether or not it is necessary to privatise the port of Ploče. I think I was here to make it clear that there was no talk of any intruding into the integrity of the port of Plocha from anyone. It is entirely under the management of a public institution owned by the Republic of Croatia today and so it will be. Clearly, while such a law is, while at all, the port system in the Republic of Croatia is in a way that manages the state through the competent port administration or agency or institution owned by the Republic of Croatia. The second thing I should also tell you is that we, in the light of this Act, delivered and presented thirty-three contracts signed by the Republic of Croatia with the World Bank. I am also the chairman of the port, President of the Management Board of the Port Authority of Ploče, but I am also the President of the Management Board of the port administration of Rijeka. Project G River... which was signed by the former Government in 2003 and which passed the ratification or confirmation in this House in the same way regulates the process of supplying services at the port of Rijeka, as prescribed by this agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the World Bank on the procurement of all services at the port of Ploče. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this contract does not depart from the 33 contracts we have signed so far with the World Bank when it comes to the construction of infrastructure facilities in the Republic of Croatia, and I repeat almost identical with the project of the G River... which was created in 2003 when the government, then the government signed with the World Bank an identical contract that regulated the issue of supply of services at the port of Rijeka. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we talk about the port of Ploče, since I am aware that I am President of the Governing Council and I am very much aware of the position and procurement of the services and works at the port of Ploče so far, then I would like to say that until now, I have said that the works on the construction of a multi-purpose terminal will begin on 1 July by Croatian companies. The first business on the behaviour and acquisition of stone at the bulky cargo terminal is also carried out by two Croatian companies and one of them is mostly owned by the Republic of Croatia. Not to name them. So the first concrete construction work in the port of Ploče, which stems from this Treaty, from this loan, is done together by two Croatian companies, and one of them is owned by the majority of the Republic of Croatia. A complete project documentation based on this project is also carried out by Croatian companies. And when we talk about the port of Ploche, I'm sorry I didn't say that in my introduction, then I should say the next thing. In order to facilitate the implementation of the project of integration of trade and transport in the port of Ploče, it will start with these days with the construction of the access road from the future highway of Dupolje or Split port of Ploče until entering the port of Ploče. And this project, which, whose works are about to begin and in which the construction project and access road will allow the overrun of the port itself and thus significantly reduce the costs of building the port of Ploče and which the project is 747 million kuna, is fully implemented by the Croatian consortium. So far, works that are directly or indirectly related to this project, which are derived from or derived from the project in part and for the documentation of the Croatian company or part of the implementation, are also carried out by Croatian companies. So I want to say here in the end, in the end these words, and I haven't missed this part of it and that part about amending the law. Namely, it was not an amendment to the law we had in December, resulting from the obligation that this contract was accepted but was primarily made from our own thinking that there was no development of the port system to the port of Croatia while the port superstructure was already doing maritime good, and we made it a complete port substructure to separate it from the maritime goods in order to be able to acquire real property and it is easier for concessionaries who were able to enter the ports to find quality financial resources. That was the fundamental reason. Whether or not this project came to the Parliament, whether or not the port of Ploče went to the construction of this project, the law should have been welcomed because it allows the development of both the ports of Split and the ports of Zadar and the ports of Sibenik and all the sea ports in the Republic of Croatia, and the ports of Rijeka, therefore all smaller ports. Because, not to mention shipyards, not to mention the port of nautical tourism, because they allow concessionaries to come out more easily with financial means to secure the port's counterstructure. So it has absolutely nothing to do with the obligation for the Republic of Croatia to change the law just because of this project. In fact, he only made it possible for Lucy Ploče, a commercial society to invest more quality and simplerly in the purchase of equipment on terminals that would be built by the state and that would always be owned by the Croatian state through the competent port administration, so without any fear of any privatisation or any other strange solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83883	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, a colleague of Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83884	Mr. Vice President, this is a very serious issue regarding correcting an incorrect quote. I am sorry that my colleague, the State Secretary, has deviated from the principle of defending, as a representative, the draft law or the text of a law which he has delivered in the parliamentary procedure. By implying to me that I am talking about the port administration, you are not even aware that you have issued the task given to you by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to defend this text. I quote, the guarantee will take the necessary measures to reduce state ownership in the port of Ploče to no more than 20% in accordance with existing laws and in agreement, etc. with the bank." Hey, buddy, I wasn't talking to you. I was quoting what you delivered to us. And it's not about the port administration. It's about the port of Ploche. Point (b) the guarantee will provide financial guarantees through appropriate budgetary allocations during the implementation of the project to improve railway infrastructure at the port of Ploče, not in the port administration. Subpoint here, no later than 23 January 2007, will be submitted to the Croatian Assembly of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Good and Sea Ports of 25 September 2003, we adopted it at 12 months, this contract was signed on 20.11.2006. Sir, I'm known as a man of tolerance, but I've never served falsely and knowingly told false information. I also suggest that you do not do this, especially as a promoter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have no constitutional right to do so, and at least you have the right to mislead this Croatian Parliament and us MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83885	Thank you very much. Here, for this debate, it would take another debate at least, which is what is the position, who is what is the jurisdiction of the port administration, what is company companies, etc. It was a controversy if I could do it from this place and in the press about where a commentator in "Free Dalmatia" presented that thesis so after 10 days or 15 days he apologized to the public and said that he would say the same treatment of port administration and a company that could be such or such a concession or not get a concession. So here's what we heard. This is a debate. They were useful, remarks too. I think we need to reconsider, or see if it's all that way. We're not in a hurry anywhere, we're not going to do anything in my opinion that wouldn't have been correct or that would have stepped down in the records that weren't already in Rijeka or anywhere else. Therefore, I would now conclude the debate. And the vote on that will be later. And it concludes tonight's debate with tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. we will begin with the proposal for a plan for harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia point 5. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-14-0.u83886	Let's move on. Final proposal of the Law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a trade and transport integration project. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 77 votes for, 16 abstentions and 9 against, the proposed conclusion was reached. Comrade Pacek, here you go. We are continuing the session with discussion on - Proposal for a plan for harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2007 - Appendix A to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession of the European Union - 2007 The material was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration and Justice, local and regional (regional) self-government, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Foreign Minister and European Integration Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
