ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92142	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The maritime code adopted at the end of 2004 for the first time was presented in one place by a full and systematic Maritime Legislative Chamber, which regulates all major public-law property and legal relations related to the sea, navigation activities and maritime ships. The adoption of the Maritime Code between the old was a broad reform of maritime law aimed at unifying maritime law for developed maritime countries, with a view to enabling Croatian shipmen to compete in the world maritime market for fleet renewal and ship return under the Croatian flag. This Code partially implements Community guidelines on shipowners’ relief while the proposed amendments to the Maritime Code also implements a part of the Community guidelines on marine relief. The measures in the field of labour and social legislation through the 2004 Maritime Code have been decided for seamen, Croatian citizens sailing on ships of Croatian flags and ships owned by Croatian shipowners in international navigation and covers about 6300 sailors and represents the first stage of a kind of maritime reform. The proposed amendments and additions to the laws want to be completed fully in a way that regulates the basic business of the shipowners on the one hand, and includes all Croatian seamen in the unique tax, pension and health system of the Republic of Croatia in an appropriate way with specific interest. This is primarily about all sailors of Croatian state, whether they sail on ships under domestic or on ships under a foreign flag. Namely, one of the key problems of modern maritime development in Europe, including the decline of interest in maritime activities, and without quality frame, the development of quality shipping is unimaginable, which is one of the key points of so-called. “green paper”, that is, the European Union Green Paper on Maritime Affairs. Therefore, we, in order to ensure the competitiveness of Croatian shipowners on the world and European market and to promote the conditions of life and work of Croatian sailors, and in line with the European acquis that we are harmonising with in the accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, this law creates a legal framework suitable for the development of maritime development. The proposed solutions through changes and additions to this law refer to the social status of all Croatian seamen who sail on ships of the sides and Croatian state belongings in international navigation, which allow users to be directional, health care and pension insurance, as well as to the obligations of billing and paying taxes on income on the basis of receipts of work on board. Due to the specificity of the activities of the seafarers, the Institute of Maritime Supplement, which is 400 kuna per day, makes it an untaxable part of the salary making the largest number of crew members in international navigation, the largest part of which will be exempt from paying income taxes. On the basis of work on board an international boat crew member in international navigation who has residence in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the usual residence, therefore the resident obtains an exception from the obligation to pay income taxes if he has sailed 183 days or more in the year for which the income tax obligation is determined. The time of 183 days does not have to be connected and can also be added to the days of sailing from the previous year which, as overnumbers, has not been included in the previous year. However, the seafarer is obliged to submit an annual declaration of income tax in accordance with the provisions of the income tax rules, to submit evidence of the number of days carried out on board an international voyage, and to account for non-income tax receipts. So, a maritime supplement for every day carried out on board. The implementation of mandatory shipping service by Croatian sailors, whether on board a ship under a domestic or foreign flag, will be certified by the competent Port Authority in the maritime booklet. Only such a certified shipping service would be recognised as the basis for passing professional exams, for obtaining maritime titles, while also serving as the basis for recording all Croatian seamen in the pension, health and tax system of the Republic of Croatia. It is expected that 30 000 Croatian seamen sailing on ships under a foreign flag are expected to have their coverage in the pension, health and tax system for at least six years. Only some of these sailors will be taxpayers depending on the number of days in navigation, but each will be subject to contributions and an estimated additional annual budget inflow will be around 100 million kuna per year, which will increase over the coming years depending on the coverage of the seamen. It is particularly important to point out that Croatian sailors are highly appreciated seamen in world circles. Croatian shipmen are... The lack of a crew and especially an officer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Due to the growing interest in enrolment in the maritime school, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development granted scholarships to students by the first budget in 2006, and this was done in 2007. Next thing you know, it's no less important. The amendments to the Maritime Code also ensure the application of the 1996 Convention on the Employment and Allocation of Seafarers, which was ratified by the Croatian Assembly in 2005 in a way that provides for the possibility for the provision of services for the employment of seamen on domestic and foreign vessels to be carried out by legal persons who meet the conditions to be defined under the regulations under the Convention. Today, almost 30,000 Croatian sailors sail on ships of state belonging to which they board through various maritime agencies or shipowners in Croatia or abroad, whose work is not regulated by Croatian legislation. In this way, effective access by Croatian seamen on the world labour market is ensured, as well as under supervised conditions, which enables additional safety and protection of the rights of the seamen. Meanwhile, respected gentlemen of parliament, the Croatian government also addressed its amendment to amendments and additions to the Maritime Code. For what? According to Croatia's Marine Unions, there are about 32,000 seamen, some 26,000 of whom sail on foreign ships. According to the IRS, about 1000 have been reported in the pension, health and tax system and are regulatedly undermining obligations as bonds which establish the base and the amount of the contribution by means of a solution and which pay their own contributions. The remaining 25,000 sailors are in different status. According to also to the tax administration, a thousand and 738 sailors who were registered as mentioned earlier were registered, but did not continue to pay their commitments and today their debt amounts to around 47 million kuna. This means that about 2,000 and 738 sailors are only yet to be covered while everyone else is in different working conditions so that their maritime status is practically not resolved to the end. Also, since 1 January 2008, all of them have essentially been re-introduced into a pension, health and tax system. For many of them there will also be a obligation to pay the debt from previous years. We therefore made it possible to amend the Government and, to the greatest extent possible, to comply with our social partners, so with the union and the shipowners a kind of debt revision, which involves, firstly, establishing an ageing debt that is older than the laid down law. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2013, p. 1). The adoption of amendments to the Maritime Code will finally regulate the status of Croatian seamen as necessary for a country that is orientational. That calling has not been particularly arranged so far. For 17 years, it has been trying to find a solution in order to satisfactorily regulate the status of sailors, but it has failed. I note that sailors are the most mobile labour force in the world because their income abroad does not normally need nostration of diplomas, work permits, family relocations, etc. It is particularly important that amending the laws will lead to the promotion of young people's interest in selecting a maritime title which will continue Croatia's maritime tradition and provide a good standard for a relatively large Croatian population. At the end of the 2004 Maritime Code, we have fully resolved the issue of Croatian boaters and Croatian sailors sailing on Croatian ships either under the Croatian or foreign flag, and these changes include all Croatian sailors sailing on foreign ships. We can say that we have completed the announced maritime reform. Finally, I am free to say that the maritime state can be considered a country that recognises the specificity of maritime shipping and creates a special status for it according to the world's operating conditions. In this sense, here are these amendments to the Maritime Code, so we are rounding up the complete reform of Croatian maritime and we are holding that by adopting such a maritime code Croatian shipping will become fully competitive on the world shipping market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92143	Thank you. Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92144	Thank you very much. Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 67th session held on 14 June 2007, the Maritime, Transport and Liaison Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. 689, which was submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who said that this law regulates the taxation system of seamen in accordance with the guidelines of the European Community on state aid, maritime transport, the status of the seafarers in view of social security, including the reporting of seafarers for those insurance and equating the liability of seafarers, creating the basis for the regulation of the conditions for the provision of services for the employment of seafarers, ensuring the conditions for the remaining harmonisation of the technical part of maritime legislation with the acquis of the European Union and correcting certain nootechnical and linguistic errors. He stressed that the ultimate goal of this law is to simulate the interests of young people for maritime calling, given the lack of sailors for the Croatian fleet, which is more and more present in practice. The Committee is particularly aware that there is a problem that will arise in the implementation of this law, which refers to the fact that 1738 seamen owe funds to the state budget of the non-payment of contributions to health and pension insurance, that negotiations are being carried out by all interested parties in order to address the problem most favourably and that they believe that they will find a satisfactory solution for the seamen by the end of the debate. The debate pointed out that the proposed benefits for seamen from tax relief and reduced grounds for contributions and health and pension insurance are unwarranted to other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and that debt is equally responsible for both seamen and states. It is thought that it is good to go with these changes that contribute to equalising the conditions for all Croatian sailors regardless of the flags of the ships on which they sail. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Maritime Code in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in the meantime we received amendments to the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92145	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92146	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Assistant Minister Babic, colleagues and colleagues, Croatia, according to its natural resources, has valorized the comparative advantages of the sea, especially because of the fact that the pearls of Croatian shipkeeping have been destroyed in the conversion and privatisation in Croatian way. I will remind you that there are no more Croatia Line, no more Sibenik sailing, no more Dalmatian sailing and other world-renowned former Croatian shipmen, however, an extremely maritime country. Croatia has also been a country developed in a world of recognised maritime education, unfortunately lately with the reduced interest of our youth in maritime occupation. Croatian sailors, about 32 thousand of whom, unfortunately, about 6 thousand sail on Croatian ships, are known in the world and recognised for their traditional and very high-quality maritime skills and education. In 94 years, the adoption of the first Maritime Law, which in a unique way, although not sufficiently standardising all or almost all major public and property legal relations related to the sea, maritime navigation activities and maritime vessels, and in the normative part of the community of maritime countries. The latest amendments to the Maritime Law came in 2004 when a new Maritime Code was adopted today, which implemented positive practice and brought our national legislation into line with the international maritime law treaty that the Republic of Croatia ratified. In 2004, the 2004 maritime code included provisions that allowed shipping companies more favourable operating conditions according to the model that other maritime states in Europe and the world have installed in their laws. Already in 2004, speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, gentlemen, I have warned that a Croatian sailor has been discriminated against by his colleagues in the world and that in his homeland he is a second-class seaman, and you will agree with me that our sailors whose 7-kore bread is our ambassadors in the world. So far, solutions in Croatian legislation dealing with the social status of Croatian sailors have been unacceptable and have led to today's situation in which we have the largest number of Croatian sailors, almost four-fifths of them outside the system. We've had and we've got a marine employment system that hasn't been operational, and it's not today. The result is the emergence of private intermediaries in the employment of sailors who have earned millions at the expense of state institutions. The only... to intervene in the employment of seamen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Millions, let's not fool ourselves from the pockets of sailors in one way or another, end up in the pockets of the mechanics. The completed students and students of maritime universities could not find the employment they needed to obtain their calling. We've had and we've had a lack of health care system that at the beginning of the enormous claims for treatment abroad that no one could ever use chased and that little seamen that had gone from the former system to the inert. We had health insurance bases that some of the calls on board simply couldn't pay because their total incomes were equal to or sometimes even smaller. Today, it is no longer necessary to point out that those seamen who pay health insurance cannot use the same often, and that is especially true of specialist reviews. The seafarer stays at home for 15 to a month and this continuity of employment and stay at home prevents him from using part of health insurance rights. We had and we have pension insurance which when and the seafarer pays can't be used in the extent of the law. In particular, sailors employed on ships in international navigation shall have the legal right to calculate training with increased duration. However, the Pension Insurance Institute has made an effort to deny, by interpreting the seafarer’s inability to record, the right to do so. What's left of the sailors? To work up to 65 years. Where, how? On board. In what and what difficult and special conditions? Such a social picture of course had a negative impact on the commitment of the people to the naval calling. The lack of officer staff failed to get rid of even scholarships because the impact of poorly organized employment had an extremely strong impact. Insecure employment for other crew members of the ship has directed them into activities on land, which has also affected the development of tourism in the Republic of Croatia. I had already spoken in 2004 and in the world it is a practice, and in the European Union we want to enter in particular that it is crucial to ensure the competitiveness of domestic shipmen is comparable to the flags of convenience. This is what the European Union is asking for, and for sailors the same conditions of work and wages, as well as the contributions and taxes they have when they sail for international companies. Only by creating boaters and sailors the same conditions as they have on the flags of convenience can bring ships under the Croatian flag and sailors into the Croatian system. In the countries of the European Union and in Croatia recently, there has been a slow lack of seamen, and various measures stimulate the interest in maritime activities, and the European Community guidelines allow for the reduction of social contributions and income tax to zero. It is therefore a practice in Europe and there is no obstacle to the introduction of this practice by the Republic of Croatia. However, whatever reasons the Government made in this assembly in 2004 when the government assured us that the matter of taxes and contributions and reliefs to seamen could not be introduced into the Maritime Code but was then said to intervene in labour tax and social legislation regardless of all this, it is good to give up these incoherent arguments and that the Government today proposes these amendments to the Maritime Code as a "lex specialis". And that's certainly good, and that's what the SDP counsel club supports. The proposed amendments to the urgent procedure before us today with some interventions in Articles 1 to 10 are technical in nature which are necessary in the process of harmonising Croatian maritime legislation with the acquis of the European Union where changes in technical nature are proposed and the powers of the maritime minister to establish the conditions for authorisation by sublaw, which is also supported by the SDP Club in this section. Of course, the proposed changes are more important than those envisioned by articles 11 below, which essentially regulate the status of about 26 thousand Croatian sailors sailing on foreign ships and which will be included in the Croatian pension, health and tax system. These changes will make our sailors and their families equal to the rights of insurance with sailors sailing on domestic ships. Of about 32 thousand Croatian sailors, only about 6 thousand who sail in cabotage or international waters on Croatian ships have resolved pension and health insurance and this solves the status of about 26 thousand which SDP also supports in this part without delay. We also support the solution by which the application into the pension and health insurance system is carried out by port captains on personal application or upon the application of a domestic company that is an intermediary in employment, subject to the conditions previously met in order to avoid any interference so far. It has always been a meddling of course to the harm of Croatian sailors. The truth of this statistical provision will be determined by one move that Croatia suddenly has 26 thousand new insurance companies and by the same number will decrease the number of unemployed statistically. I suppose this will be interpreted as a reduction in the number of unemployed and probably as a success of this government, and it is only about the statistical management of those who are not in the Croatian system today. However, as it is an important issue for the fate of the seamen and Croatian maritime shipping, since with the changes in this part in which I have so far spoken the consent of the Croatian Maritime Union and the SDP Boat Club Association in this section, it has fully supported the proposed amendments. We also support the changes under which the tax application is scheduled to be made by seamen who stay more than 183 days outside the country and who are calculated in those days, who count not only the days of effective sailing but also the journey to the ISA ship, the days spent on professional training and training, and those carried out on treatment for illness or injury, and those who sail less than 183 days to be recognised as tax relief contributions to pension and health insurance and maritime income. And here's the end of the support. There is an end to a positive story and there is an end to the support of the SDP Club on this law because unfortunately there is that unfortunate but and what will happen when it is if one day it is. In fact, this code would be good if life at sea and the life of sailors began at 1.1.2008. Unfortunately, however, Croatian seamen and sailors in sovereign Croatia have been working and working for 17 years, and in these years Croatia has been their stepmom. According to the available records, the State Secretary also presented in its opening explanation of this proposal, the law of 1738 Croatian seamen registered in the system of health and pension insurance currently owes about 47 million kuna to the state without interest. When the interest is summed up, interest on interest, although I am aware that the government subsequently referred to the procedure and amendments with which part of the debts in old age and ironing and excluding interest are kind of foreseen. However, this is not the end of the problem facing Croatian sailors, and I fear that many will be obliged to resort and sell out their assets to change their debts to the state. On the other hand, the system's application again creates obligations for about 24000 who will also be in a position to sell their assets to the state in order to repay their debt, and it is justified to worry that the entry into the Croatian tax and pension and health systems will be avoided in any way. The guilt is to be honest with the seamen, but even more so in a country that has not created an acceptable package for the seamen, but has forced them to avoid joining the Croatian system. I consider it personal, and so do we at the SDP club that we have to draw a line somewhere. We've done it with many professions and associations. Let's do it with the seamen. Let's just draw the line. Therefore, in this law the most important thing is what is not in the law. I believe that the transitional and final provisions should include an article on how to resolve debts which I consider crucial. And in that sense for certain, this law I said pro futuro is good. It's good for future sailors. However, it solves the problems of the current seamen in order to finally comply with the maritime development definition, I have also outlined amendments. One amendment refers to the fact that the maritime supplement is regulated by law, and that it is not left to the will of the administration whether it is HDZ or SDPs because it further introduces safety in the maritime interest. And the second amendment that is crucial, which I have referred to in the procedure, refers to the write-off of the dues and the outstanding claims which are crucial in this law. There's no such thing in this law. For the future he is good and of course the SDP's Club of Representatives cannot and cannot provide support. However, I suggest you gentlemen from the government to consider the amendments I have made and I have seen that it has also done this to the HSP club and to accept them, to take them as your own in any technical way and finally resolve the status of Croatian sailors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92147	Thank you. The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92148	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code that gives me one debt back to the seamen, and before that, it has been returned to the shipmen and we actually see how long the journey has been since '47. And '48. when ships were taken away, when the nationalised ships, when many families of sea captains had been on board for centuries, remained due to the basic means then we experienced one truly ship-going Croatian shipbuilding that is now here in the free and sovereign Croatian state, in such a way that before and after the amendments and addition of these laws, which evened the conditions for the operation of shipowners and their own incentivising means, we allowed small boaters to obtain ships to connect those good destinations between islands and islands, islands and land, so that they could have excursion ships with enviable technical and technological levels. Especially is the move of the last such step is just the completion of a ship that is sailing between Dubrovnik and Istria and in fact this is one final direction in which the development of Croatian maritime development should go and that must no longer stop because numerous shipmen and sailors who have connected Croatia's Adriatic with the rest of the Mediterranean have finally come to their own since the 15th century. That is why, on this occasion, it has also made reference to the Regulation on the compensation for the repossessed ships that this government and this ministry have proposed and accepted that it can move on. What's the reason for that? Namely, even at this point incomplete data suggests that there are about 30,000, 25 000 Croatian sailors and we do not know exactly of those 6 and a half thousand sailors sailing on Croatian ships. What is the problem and which needs to be resolved before, and what has been done with other factories, companies are behind the backlog because 1738 sailors have a number of backlogs towards the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, health insurance, taxes somewhere around 47 million kuna, regardless of what should not be in this code but should be resolved as soon as possible because it is precisely the deficit of maritime personnel that tells us how we need to develop first high sea schools, later and colleges, but fully equate the business that all European countries already have. In fact, the whole of the European Union, the relevant European states that have respectable maritime affairs, also began to deal with evening of business conditions in the first place, and this was primarily intended to reduce the fiscal and other costs and burdens borne by shipowners. But now in this case and the seamen, according to the level of the world standard. Because what we can rise to is precisely our seamen who, even before harmonising with European laws, have sailed the world's seas and accepted world standards. This is a key problem, which is precisely an interest in maritime knowledge declines in developed countries of the world, I primarily think of Europe. Therefore, Croatian shipmen also have major problems in finding the Croatian crew. That one is still a ray of optimism. The developed nauticalism suggests that a skipper earns about 100 euros a day, which says how much we need and determine as soon as possible how many ships in the Croatian Adriatic. It's already made strategies. This should be put into legal frameworks with strict ecological standards so that we do not get into a situation where the number of ships that we have easily released into the Croatian Adriatic forced us to build marinas, ports and ports where we have never been. And to this polluting environment, we increase traffic to the closed Adriatic Sea, and in any case we forget what our priority is, and it is indeed the existing ports and ports to build that they have a secure connection for any time, summer, winter, storm, south, which is exactly what this Croatian government is doing. What to say is that it's a miracle exactly as the port ends on Solta, as the port expands in Supetar, plans the port in Drvenik. I won't even mention this other county. My colleagues will make it very clear and commendable. It is therefore important that this very proposal for a law is implemented by the European Community guidelines on facilitating seamen. And to finally create conditions for equalising the status of Croatian seamen in the tax system, as well as those that sail on domestic and foreign ships and that all Croatian sailors are finally included in the tax system and the mandatory health and pension insurance system of the Republic of Croatia. That's exactly what the proposal for this law has made those most modern standards, and I believe it won't fit on it. And that problematic part that always bothers us that it is a maritime supplement to edit in a precise way that needs to have a systematic solution, not from case to case and let it be determined and coordinated in a slow and unconstitutional manner. We should also highlight what we are still interested in, which is how it is and what it is, what kind of mediation it is. This proposal for a law intervening in the employment of sailors on ships of Croatian and foreign states is carried out by the Croatian Employment Service. But not only him, but the intervention in the employment of sailors on Croatian and foreign state ships can be carried out by legal persons who comply with the conditions prescribed by the special regulation of the Croatian State. Of course, what I would also like to mention is that the Maritime Code is a world standard. But wherever you can write it, it's either a company or a society, because the pursuit of Croatian language is exactly the most pronounced at sea because we've had sailors since the beginning of time. What is important to say, and what everyone feels best, is how tax regulations are harmonised, how to enable a ship's crew member and in international navigation, regardless of the nationality of the ship, which in the Republic of Croatia has a residence, i.e. a habitual residence, which is a taxpayer of non-performing labour towards the benefit that it does not pay exactly that tax if it has sailed for a certain number of days, such as this is very precise and clearly unequivocally, and nootechnically stated in Article 13. Of course, this opportunity has also been approached by ad-favoring Croatia's seafarer no matter where he sails and so that the days spent on the journey from the place of residence to the place of boarding on board the ship are included in those days, the days necessary for the return journey, the days of treatment due to the illness or injury caused on the way to board the ship, or on the return, spent on professional education abroad. I especially stress this because the very important simulations that must be done in all those maritime schools have a certain price. Here is our company "Split Ship Management" which really invests in training sailors is a useful and true example of how to train and favour but also in some way make it an even more attractive job for the seaman, sailors, officers on board or later commanders. What should also be pointed out, and it is stated in Article 14 that it is precisely the way in which the regulations of the Maritime Law governing the application of the mandatory pension and health insurance system to seamen as a specific category of insurance. Finally, it should be pointed out that indeed some of the professions are specific and should be subject to specific regulations, not only in order for the state to settle all those obligations, i.e. pension and health insurance, but also to facilitate the treatment, i.e. the exercise of the rights of those seamen sailing on the world seas and sailing either for a foreign or domestic private shipman. It is also defined as the general obligation to include all seamen with residence, i.e. the usual residence in the Republic of Croatia in the mandatory pension insurance system, as well as the inclusion of all seamen in the Republic of Croatia who have residence or approved permanent stay in the compulsory health insurance system and health insurance at work. The obligation is also for Croatian employers to report seamen to a mandatory pension and health insurance system. It is also cited cases where the employer is a seafarer, a foreign legal person in which the application to the pension and health insurance of the seamen will be carried out by port captains. In doing so, I point out that the special importance of port captains is to be even more equipped, to have more modern vessels, more modern systems of connections and tips, because yet the port captains of ancient times were the pride of all coastal places and islands because the port captain, when he greets ships, when he puts on uniforms, the safety of all sailors, however they are, some of them better, also less educated for sailing. Here is the recently opened port captain's station in Kaštela where the hearing of the Croatian government is said to be, where according to the number of vessels, the network of port captains, i.e. the display of port captains, has to be expanded. We know that this has its price, but what we need is exactly a maritime code that will develop Croatian maritimeity, which will allow us to be the first to be both in sailing and first in all those sports and not just in economic activity at sea. The fact is that in the transitional and final provisions deadlines are very precise, made, but indeed what should be arranged is that it is a maritime supplement, in which way to prescribe the altitude of the maritime supplement. In Article 36, it seems to be nomotechnical and practically well done, but if there are more useful remarks, then let us do so. I believe that this will be a further incentive for all Croatian laws to work on this particular model that we want to protect, a particular economic branch to develop, because it is always a pride to see the Croatian ship with Croatian banners and sailors who have since long ago been known as one of the most important and most secure and prominent no matter what seas it sails on. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will accept this Bill proposal, welcome it and encourages the promoter to continue to do everything, and in the direction and protection of even more maritime goods, ports, ports and marinas that really need to be top-notch and first-class, because we are really starting to take advantage of these resources, but we need to protect them, not treating them as expendable goods because once we do so badly, there is no turning back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92149	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92150	Mr. President, a colleague of Peronja, speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, mentioned that this whole law is aimed at harmonising our legislation with the guidelines of the European Union. However, these guidelines speak of the need to reduce fiscal, therefore, tax and all other charges for sailors and shipowners. This law goes in a completely different direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92151	And respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92152	Thank you very much. Mr. Peronja, speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, was delighted to talk about the intensive construction of new ports, e.g. in Supetar, Solta, and especially in other counties, thinking primarily of Primorje-goranska and Lika-Senjska. Well, in that sense, I would correct the inaccuracy of what has been particularly the Stinica port, which has always been built for four years before the budget, and there hasn't been a building permit yet, so I would like to appeal here and Mr. Secretary of State because in Jablanac they are already making so much noise that it's just almost impossible to access the port of Jablanac. So it's false, or it's an incorrect assumption that it's specifically built in Lika-Senjska because here's an example we have in the port of Jablanac that can't begin working to create a normal traffic connection for the island of Rab.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92153	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92154	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, highly respected gentlemen from the D.A.'s Department. At first, I would like to congratulate on behalf of the club HSP the name of all Peters and Pauls in all male and female statements and it may be symbolic that this debate takes place on the holiday of St. Peter and Paul, therefore, who was a fisherman and Paul, who was doing his job as a missionary thanks to the good boat connections of the Roman Empire. While we are already in Rome and the Roman Empire, from the Roman Empire until the end of Venice on our coast, there was no tax on seamen's income, but only ship owners were paying taxes, so as an arboratist. So much for history. Let's get back to this unfortunate law. The law itself therefore calls for guidance from the European Union, but I remind you that the guidelines go towards reducing fiscal burdens and shipowners and sailors, and here we are doing something completely different. So we do, i.e. You want in every way possible to get to the part of the tax that's hiding in our sailors' pockets outside. All sailors are actually voluntary prisoners. You should know people who've been navigation their whole lives what they look like when they come back. I know a guy in Zadar who doesn't come out of his apartment except for the balcony, a pardon bridge or the yard, a pardon deck. I know one of those same on Hvar that's coming out too. So people get used to moving very little because they've been sailing their whole lives, because it's shaped their lives, because it's shaped their families. So their families and their entire careers actually go one far more difficult life story than anyone else. What have we been offering them so far? We had a non-functioning maritime employment system, so as a result, a bunch of private entrepreneurs, employment intermediaries, who earned millions of dollars on the labour of state institutions, appeared through the mediation in the employment of sailors. Millions are therefore sucked out and the pockets of sailors in this way and that way. And the graduate students of high and higher maritime schools could not find the employment they needed. That's not what we're talking about. We had, we had a missing health system that initially had enormous claims for treatment abroad that no one could ever use chased and those few sailors who stayed by inert wanted to sail on our ships. So we had health insurance bases that some of the calls on board simply couldn't pay because their total incomes were equal to or less than what the Health Insurance Office asked for. A month ago, a solution was issued to the seaman on the payment of mandatory contributions of 3 thousand 675 kuna and his total income was converted from dollar to kuna at the rate of 2007 at the end of April 3 thousand 868 kuna or 193 kuna more. Adding his insurance in case of accident and professional illness leaves him 141 kuna for life. So what would it look like if it were going to work under this law? Today, it is no longer necessary to point out that those seamen who pay for health insurance cannot actually use this insurance and this specifically refers to specialist reviews because the seamen are staying at home from 15 days to a month and this continuity of employment and stay at home prevents them from using part of health insurance rights. But he is also deprived of his right to compensation during his illness because according to the interpretation of the Institute of Health Insurance, there is an end to the contract of work, so from sailing to sailing, so he actually lost most of his rights during that period. We also have pension insurance which, even when paid by a seaman, cannot be used within the scope that I am legally allowed to use. In fact, sailors employed on ships, on international voyages, have the legal right to reckon... in the evening, but the Pension Insurance Institute has made an effort to interpret the inability to register with the seafarers and those rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's left of the sailors? To work up to 65 years. Where's he gonna do that? What shipping company? Who's gonna hire them when they're 65? At 55 years of age, it's a real lottery to get a job on a stranger. It's reality. It's reality. And we're actually going with this law, that's all. You're going with this law, and that's all because someone at the Ministry of Finance is getting their eye on the possibility of picking up a 100 million-dollar ringer. And that's the only motive. So today, we have about 30,000 Croatian sailors sailing on ships of foreign states, and this applies to them and their families. So we're looking when this whole story has already gone down, when it's already gone to harvesting seafarers that sail on foreigners, to make sense here. Be careful, the provision in Article 13 amending Article 128 states: That a seaman is considered a taxpayer in Croatia if he has sailed on a foreign ship for less than 183 days, with days for the journey to and from the ship and back and days for the disease that occurred on the road in those 183 days. What about the rest of the illness? What if God didn't break her leg in Croatia? And it also adds days spent on vocational education abroad. So I can bet that a whole series of illegal education schools abroad will be formed that will be able to sign up for some money for a dozen, fifteen days if there was an education abroad, to "bypass" the terms of this law. So we're making our sailors go underground. And that's what we actually offer as a state with such a law instead of embrace them, instead of talking about why we didn't make the Croatian land a flag of convenience, that as many companies as possible sail here instead of making the unmistakable provisions of the Register of Ships and all our other laws drive our ships away from the flag. Instead of talking about it, we're coming up with a way to pick that lock. The debt was presented but 90% of the debt refers to the debt with the basics of the pension insurance which could, by law, be accounted for and forced to charge by '98. A year. The problem is also that with all this together we are neither helping our boaters nor helping sailors and all that the government is actually offering in its amendments and in this law is actually retrograde tax collection. The government, therefore, in its amendments it has written after being submitted by the Club of Representatives of the HSP and I must remind myself that our amendments are in line with the Maritime Union, the Government in its amendments actually offers retrograde collection of their taxes but to wars. And that's all. So, you'll pay for the hack, but you'll pay for the wars. Also, the law does not prescribe the extent to which maritime supplements should be, therefore, that non-taxable part of the salary but is left to the minister to determine it by his mercy. In addition, we believe that this maritime supplement must be equal to at least half of the personal deductions from the Income Tax Act. We also feel that it is necessary to simply really underline the line as my predecessor said, but in a way to erase all debts that were due on the date of entry into force of this law. And that the debt write-off system may include all those applying up to two years from the date of entry into force of this law. Everything else is a harrassor, everything else means only that we can tell shipmen and sailors, welcome to the hell of Croatian legislation and welcome to the stupidity of the competent ministry. So please accept our amendments nicely because it is the only way to treat our sailors fairly and correctly on foreign ships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92155	Thank you. One notice. The chairman of the War Veterans Committee, Honored Representative Vlado Jukic, scheduled a meeting of the Committee for the Day, Friday at 11.00 at the "Eugen Quaternik" hall. State Secretary Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92156	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to refer to what he said after such a step by Mr. Assembly Representative Tonci Tadic, and what he said is not true. After congratulating the holiday of St. Peter and Paul, I also thought that in that tone they would exactly as a legal believer and continue in their presentation with all that he had said. Namely, what it's about. Or such an act is the result of the non-reading of all those provisions that this law, the amendment of the law, implies, on the one hand, or on the other hand, the deliberate twisting of the facts that will arise and which will practically result from this adoption of the Maritime Code. In fact, what I have to deny is, first of all, a statement that with this Naval Code, we will increase the obligations of the seamen. Not that it's not true, but it's exactly the opposite. According to the current legislation, Croatian sailors are independent taxpayers who pay income tax according to the basis prescribed. The current basis, for example, for the highest officer personnel on board ships such as the captain and the manager of the machine is 9,000 and 100 kuna regardless of the amount he received during the voyage as commander or manager of the machine, I am now talking about the highest officers. We, and we know that the receptions of the first highest officers on board are between $6 and $10,000 a month, and therefore the currently prescribed bases are far below those actual receipts that these officers receive on board that I'm not saying that it's roughly similar to that of the other sailors sailing in international navigation. We are reducing the base for all sailors who are in international navigation in such a way that they will pay the Republic of Croatia to contribute as if they are sailing in national navigation as if, for example, they are sailing on ships of the state ship of Jadrolinia, which was about the basis of which we have calculated and planned the base for sailors sailing in international navigation, which means, for example, for a moment before the aforementioned commander of the individual ship that is sailing in international navigation and which, depending on the company on which it receives between $6 and $10,000, we have planned to now pay obligations and that pension, health and employment contribution on a basis of 6 thousand and 100 kuna. Therefore, if this implies increasing the obligations of the seamen, and we are reducing some duties on board and three times less than what is now foreseen, then I do not know what this should be, which should be a reduction for Mr. Toni Tadic to say that it is a reduction rather than an increase. It's another thing. That such a proposal of the Maritime Code makes Croatian sailors from Croatian shipmen really do not stand for Croatia, and since we have practically prescribed such conditions for the operation of Croatian shipowners that define the legitimate state of Croatia when it comes to shipping as a state of convenience and there is not a single register and register of ships in Europe that can provide such advantages to its shipowners provided by the current Maritime Code. For, namely, the Maritime Code provides that Croatian shipowners are exempt from paying taxes on profit regardless of what purpose that amount is to get targeted. Therefore, this provision really provides Croatian shipmen with the best, the best quality operating conditions in Europe, and I dare say in the world, and it has already been confirmed several times by Croatian shipmen, and they have given all their congratulations to such a maritime code. And one more thing that's very important. The maritime supplement is not the only non-taxable part of the salary. There are also a number of receipts in Croatia that make up an untaxable part of the salary, such as the daily Christmas card, to a certain amount and all these non-taxable income receipts are prescribed by the Income Tax Regulation, which is prescribed by the Minister and which is changed from year to year according to clear living conditions, standards rise, etc. etc. One of these receipts is also a maritime supplement and therefore the growth, i.e. the size of the marine supplement, is determined by the regulation, and we advocate that as clearly as other non-taxable receipts increase annually, so as to increase the maritime supplement clearly in line with all other receipts. Therefore, this change of the Maritime Code does not go and it is not a harrass, it does not constitute an incursion in the receipt of Croatian seamen. However, this change of the Law of the Sea is going to enable Croatian sailors to pay the Republic of Croatia minimum obligations under pension and health insurance under the most favourable conditions and thus contribute to social security and their families. The worst situation is where they are not recorded anywhere, in which they are not introduced into the pension, health and tax system but are practically coming from case to case and create great uncertainty for themselves and their families. Here we wanted with this amendment to the Maritime Code to enable minimum payments based on pension and health insurance to free them of taxes in the Republic of Croatia if they are more than 173 days sailing and thus help them enter this pension and health and social system in Croatia and contribute to their safety and their families. And as far as most of the marine additives are concerned, there's one more thing I'd like to say. So every sailor regardless of the altitude of the marine supplement if sailing is more than 183 days he does not pay income tax, there was that maritime supplement 200 kuna or a thousand and 800 kuna. It doesn't matter. He's free of income tax. And if it's less than 6 months, if it's less than 184 days in navigation, then the receipts that are received for those 4 or 5 months when they're divided into 12 months a year and they fit everything, they're personal deductions that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has, and they're still adding a maritime supplement, and that's probably our calculations except for the highest naval personnel, and that's the commander and the manager of the machine, the other nobody's going to pay, and no sailor is going to pay taxes. Therefore, it is not good to deceive the public in this way but, in fact, all of those, all of those articles that we have carefully led when defining these amendments to the Maritime Code in this way, to present them. And I must also say that on this amendment, we have been preparing this amendment to the Maritime Code for a year and a half. That in that year and a half we have held a series of meetings with Croatian shipmen and the Maritime Union, and that is why we have delivered our amendment just as the Maritime Code started in the procedure not because of the amendments to the HSP, as Mr Tonci Tadic said, but by the last day together with the Maritime Union and Croatian shipmen have defined in a certain way, we have been trying if I can say these changes to the Maritime Code. It was also one of our thoughts that we freed the seamen from giving all or debt on all grounds until the day of 1 January 2008 when the law came into force. But I'm holding... with this we entered into a very uncertain business where there is still a large number of Croatian taxpayers who, from previous years, have their debts, and I think that, in this way where we allow them to get some of their debt off due to old age, that part of them, to tighten interest as we have said they write it down, and then that significantly reduced remaining debt salary within two years has been very much met and we hold that this reality is taking care of all other interests, of all other titles in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92157	Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92158	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations by the Secretary of State. The first thing I have to react to, you should have reacted incorrectly is from the secretary of state that you doubt about, Mr. Tonci Tadic's faith and belief. You have Minister Calmett, so have fun with him and then move on to Tonci Tadic. When you said there was no feedback on your 2004 novel, every sailor on average owed about 54 thousand kuna to the state. This is a follow-up to that story, that's what you should have answered. So every sailor had to pay for it. He got bills to pay 54 thousand kuna when you introduced a novel in which you said it was a great novel. So it's just a hack and now it's just gonna be an extra hack once this law comes into force. So you're telling the truth, and don't fool the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92159	And the esteemed representative Tonči Tadic, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92160	So the State Secretary keeps trying to explain that this law is in favor of the seamen. This law has the only motive. Pick up 100 million kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92161	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92162	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the state secretary's esteemed, distinguished gentlemen of the council. That sailors eat bread with nine crusts is true, even if they have that salary of six, eight or ten thousand dollars as mentioned here. Which means for Croatia, I don't think we should mention it. Unfortunately, our biggest shipman, Croatia Line, was sent into bankruptcy. Mr. Peru mentioned "Dalmatin sailing" and some other companies like this. ... A mechanic from Lebanon has taken over the foundation of interest rates of 50 Croatian ships and only from the company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is certainly one of the biggest if not the biggest Croatian economic failure. I'm talking about the collapse of the Croatia Line. No other economic failure can occur on Croatia's soil and hundreds of such were compared to the collapse of Croatia Lina. It just shouldn't have happened. Unfortunately, it happened. Our "Croatia Line" has failed, and their collapse is, like, if a major Croatian shipyard went bankrupt today. Clearly there is no one here in this hall who is not parallelly concerned about "Lenac," entering... The oil company is a good model team more than the Oil Company, but I agree you should also take care of small cooperatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We were saying yesterday that the loss of "Lance" is 600 million kuna as much as it fell to the state, but the co-operatives lost about 480 million kuna somewhere. For the state, it's a great burden, for cooperatives an irreparable burden, so let's put our heads together and help that remont shipyard. Someone said let's not just solve the condition of future sailors. Let's resolve the status or status of the current seamen. Before I start talking about it, let me just say that I won't talk about the Adriatic orientation, but the good part of the coast has been deindustrated in the last 15 years, and it's just as bad that we've run out of the good part of the fleet. If they were not written off on billions of kunas to Croatian shipyards, more specifically in Rijeka, Split, Trogir, Kraljevica, Lenac, not Uljanika and those shipyards would experience the fate of the "Croatia Line" and therefore return in a manner of maritime orientation with correct laws. Let's start with these sailors. The maritime orientation clearly is not just tourism. I have spoken more than once about this speaker lately how many businesses in Croatia have transferred to the state through protested guarantees. So let's say the state pays these loans for the Adriatic Crikvenica, for hotels in Omislje, Modena, Solta, Novi, Živožnost, Podgora, Helios some Huma, Baška leads to Orebić, the Adriatic, the plates and so on. Let's help the sailors one more time. Maritime law was passed in 2004. "The People's Newspaper" number 181/04. It has 1032 articles, preceded by the 1994 Maritime Code with two amendments. These changes concerning a foreign ship which may not be so significant and its navigation capabilities show only the development of rights in that area. And these cases are almost daily. The newspapers are a means of intervening in the employment of seamen in this law and paying taxes clearly and contributing to the seamen. The solution so far was that the intervention with the seamen could only be carried out by the Croatian Employment Service, which was not the case in the case of seamen sailing on foreign ships on a regular basis. Or it didn't seem like it. As a rule, this job was illegally carried out by different agents, intermediaries, and their list is known to everyone in the country. Unfortunately, he hasn't been published. And that's the state I'd say illegal behavior and allow. The new solution means that the job can now be done by some other persons, and that is where some order is introduced. This allows for a legal thing that existed until the entry into force of this amendment to the law, that some illegal practice with sometimes inappropriately high fees from those persons and any legal protection of the seafarers will be allowed. The legal theoretical question whether it is necessary to place the matter of working relationships now in work or perhaps even in the social field and to throw it out, now get it out of the Maritime Code. As regards the payment of the tax and the contribution of the seafarers, the proposed amendment is that a member of the crew in international navigation is a taxpayer unless he sailed 183 days and more in the year in which the obligation is determined. The problem comes down to the fact that from the beginning of an independent Croatia to the present day, their rights and obligations in the segment of the health, pension and tax system have not been systematically resolved, so far it has been all about asking the seafarer to give enough, a large amount of money for any service, or the state has half-agreedly closed to the application of certain regulations that were considered illogical. Representatives of the SPH Maritime Unions, meaning this proposal sent to us by Mr Predrag Bracaduro, who was also used in the SDP and HSP Club, warned partners of a congress resolution that the SPH could not support changes and additions to the Law of the Sea unless all seafarers' debts were resolved at the beginning of the law. According to data provided by the secretary of the sea himself, Mr Branko Bačić, the IRS data relating to the period until 2003 speak of registered 1738 debtors who have debts. They demand a total of 47 million 318 thousand 451 kuna without including interest. 90% of the debt is to the Peace Fund. 7% to 8% according to the Health Insurance Fund, and the rest falls to all other insurance. It should be pointed out that some 63,000 kunas of these 47 million are worth of tax debt in that amount of waste. If interest were to be included, that debt would likely increase by another 30 million kuna. Partners like this deliver themselves to me to help that part of the seamen who have already come under the pressure of forced debt collection. The common position is that, in addition to the law of the established reduction of the claim through a more precise determination of the debt period, the reduction of potentially incorrectly fixed tight interest rates should be found to be the possibility that the remainder of the real debt should be disbursed discountably in a way that, by paying the debt entirely, the debt should be reduced by 80% for quarterly payment, in order to reduce, for example, 50% and 30% by half-years. It is also proposed to leave the possibility of paying the debt in 12 wars. And that's kind of where we actually come to be. By my judgment, gentlemen, the tax in this country is to be paid by all and by those who earn 3,000 kuna and by those who earn 10,000 euros equivalent to about 55 000 kuna, and ultimately we see that they will only be paid by the captains. You can't write off something that can't be written off. Who would suggest today that these non-proliferation companies, and those in Croatia are around 24, 25 000, I don't know exactly. But I do know they owe about $12.6 billion in one move to write off all those claims. What kind of message are we just sending someone? How those who are orderly will pay simply such a single proposal may accept. Come on, we're getting carried away with this being real and we're looking for the impossible, but let's just find this kind of discount method that if a debt is paid suddenly decreases I don't know about that much, if it's quarterly paid for so much, if I don't know how much for 12 wars. But we can't simply say the obligations don't exist because such practice I think will come to the charge of those who will take over the leadership of this country the next day. The base clearly in this case is about 6100 kuna and it actually comes out to meet these people, because we have to keep in mind that somewhere around 26, 27 000 sailors actually sail on foreign ships. The fact is that it is an exceptional substance, that the Croatian maritime state, a country which unfortunately gave up on the sea under the quotes of the orientation at the time it allowed the economic systems to almost all be disabling. But this is where the naval fleet is starting to rebuild, and there is a need to find a way around the world for Croatian ships under the Croatian flag to present the country in which we live. What I will once again help the shipyards, help Lenca and try to reach some consensus clearly and help the sailors in this way. And I think they can be met if they're given benefits that will reduce their liabilities if they suddenly pay their debts, if they're paid quarterlyly for that debt, if they do it half-yearly, and if they don't, then that obligation extends to 12, 24 months, 36, but once again I repeat the tax, they have to pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92163	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92164	Thank you very much. Here is Mr. Cain, in his presentation, said that “Croatia lines” as a company had failed. That's not true. The company that was on the ranking list of the fourth company in the world, from fourth to seventh, depends on some parameters with 74 ships, with several thousand sailors, with one of the world's best maritime infrastructures, could not fail. It was deliberately destroyed and sold out to come back to Croatia through the Croatian privatisation model part of the fleet.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92165	At 11.15, the time for the ten-minute hearing was up. For the club of representatives of the CNS respected representative Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Here again and again Croatia is certainly a traditional maritime country with a great tradition and quality maritime education. Although Croatia's highly esteemed sailors in the world have unfortunately not resolved any basic questions about the obligations and rights of these seamen, especially as regards health and pension insurance. These proposed amendments and additions seek to round up this unique matter in a way that regulates the maritime tax system, regulates the status of the seafarers in terms of social security, which includes, of course, the application of these seafarers to insurance, balances the liability of the seafarer, creates the basis for prescribing conditions for the provision of services for maritime employment and ultimately ensures the conditions for the remaining harmonisation of the technical part of maritime legislation with the acquis of the European Union. Unfortunately, everywhere in the world today, we are witnessing a fall of interest in the maritime profession. All of this should improve the very quality of the Maritime Legislative, compliance with Community guidelines on state aid in transport and the ultimate result should be to stimulate the interests of young people to choose a maritime calling, and hence, an additional stimulant for the development of maritime development. We therefore welcome this approach that stimulates seamen and thinks of Croatia as a maritime country. But we also have a few concerns that I must share with you and point out in this debate. First of all, given that we have the Labour, Income Tax and that I do not now list everything else, so the laws that regulate certain areas are the question of why it did not go into the amendments and additions of those laws and define in them a particular chapter defining the rights of the seamen. I know that there have been demands to bring this together in the Maritime Code, but I believe that sailors are also citizens of this country. I therefore believe that their position before the law must be the same. It is likely that the proposer will answer here that the Maritime Code has just covered the entire maritime area. I believe that regardless of the interest that is to be achieved for the maritime calling, regardless of the large number of specificities resulting from the circumstances of the work and life of the seamen, as we do well to say that this is a 9-core profession and bread, they should be considered as citizens of the Republic of Croatia and should not have been legally singled out in a special category of other citizens. I am afraid that this approach to solving the problem of the lack of seamen will not be able to understand those who will have to pay income taxes, and that income will be significantly lower than the seafarers' incomes, especially those that are made on foreign ships. So here I speak for those citizens who are not sailors and who are really going to find it hard to understand that tax, that some citizens in this country have to pay taxes and others don't have to. In the transitional and final provisions, the minister is obliged to lay down rules within one year of the date of adoption of the law. The competent minister shall also be obliged to adopt regulations within 6 months. What happens until these regulations are passed and that sublegal acts apply is something that had to be defined in the Transitional and Final Provisions and not to assume that all that was not put out of force is also in force. But the indiscriminateness is in the extreme line of pain of all our laws, so apparently this law is not entirely immune to it either. I welcome the amendment because it tries to resolve a large number of executive procedures, because it makes it easier to pay off the debt from the title of pension and health insurance for 2 years. Because it is regulated that the application can be submitted within a year. As a result, the majority of this debt is virtually determined to have an outdated right to determine the obligations and to collect the debt and to determine the process of harmonising the debt that will be determined by way of guidance, so a large number of those debts are expected to go into obsolescence. I consider that in my own opinion, I consider it a relief for a large number of sailors, those who have debts to the state. But I especially think it's quality for these executive procedures to finally end. Finally, this Law regulates the role of an agent, or agency in employment, which is true, that these agencies and these agents have become de facto and that they have failed, some state institutions have failed to work. However, the fact is that these agencies are hiring sailors today, and it is better to put them under control and control and regulate the job than to leave them completely unregulated. What I want to say anyway, and I'm going to look back on that, and we should ask ourselves here why we're going into the process of changing and supplementing only partially. That's what I mean first of all, which I also said on the board that the Maritime Code in the future would be worth supplementing by the definitions of submarines, underwater divers as commercially all the more interesting objects of robotic technology. And this is because the development of underwater robotic technology is in an increasing momentum in Croatia. The importance of developing and using all forms of divers is unquestioned, especially autonomous underwater divers in protecting and exploring the Adriatic, as well as their commercial use for industrial and tourist purposes. However, the legal definition of these facilities as well as other relevant legal issues related to underwater robotics is currently not satisfactorily resolved. The definition of divers as underwater objects within maritime facilities should be considered, thus entering the scope of the Maritime Code. This would remove the possibility of applying the provision of this mandatory right to cases of damage claims arising from the use of divers that would be excessive, difficult and unwarranted both by the owners and by the divers. Better legal protection should be provided for divers' owners, potential damages that would cause damage to ships, boats and yachts by their work. Although these amendments and additions may not be all solved, of course this is a step forward, and the implementation of this law over time will show whether any other stimulating measures such as those in some other European countries where the de facto tax has been reduced in some cases to 0. But for now, I think this is primarily useful for sailors. I don't think it's like some MPs here said it's just a harbinger gathering. I think it's the regulation of status and the regulation of social security and pension insurance, because as we have identified here, sailors have to retire relatively early. And de facto the largest amount of health insurance they're using right now, that's when they start using, not until the day. Thus, as much as they may indeed be denied during their working life in providing certain health services will calm down in a longer, let’s say, pensioner’s age. That is why we in HNS support it, support these changes and additions and, of course, once again stressing that it is important that sailors also pay a certain tax because in this country we are all equal before the Constitution and the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92167	Thank you. For the HSS club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92168	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is a maritime country, the fact cannot even challenge a real state that does not contribute to the issue. Unfortunately, Croatia as a maritime country and in times when it had stronger capacities, when it was simply a mathematical relationship much different, more quality than it is today, when the number of employees on Croatian ships alone was more than 40,000, at a time when we had a full power fleet, it was one generally accepted thinking that maritime orientations that should have a systematic right to education, in political understanding and in something that could absolutely be called one value, almost identity, and that Croatia should actually be built as well as to preserve those remains so that they would not in any way fall apart. I'd just like to say what I mean by that identity before I specifically go on the amendment proposal and supplementing the maritime code. You see if you want to build an identity, the maritime identity of a country then you really have to try every day to see that identity in action so that it doesn't present itself differently and that we don't lose direction in the pursuit of meaning. And you see one tender for the supply of goods, or for the delivery of a school ship of sailboats by the ministry. It was designed on the initiative of the Shipowners' Association to make wooden shipbuilding, it is a brand in Croatia, raised to the pedestal it deserves. Instead of getting a proposal to make a wooden sailboat Croatian as a school ship, we have a draft that will be a boat... So instead of doing Croatian identity, we obviously opted to be Korean identity, because Croatian identity can't be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia is one of the few Mediterranean and world countries that has an extremely high quality wooden shipbuilding, and this identity should be nurtured as a value. It's a brand with which you enter anywhere if you can respect it. Unfortunately, these conditions of competition not only apply not only to a wooden ship, but not to any shipbuilding site that deals with the wooden production of ships. That's how it was done. Therefore, we cannot talk about the identity of the maritime Croatia if we are not on the same path and if we do not act the way the maritime country should behave. As far as this proposal for the Law of the Sea is concerned, it is good, indeed, that labour legislation, that the rights that should, of course by now, be equal to those of other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, should be equaled with those of other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We welcome these changes and additions that contribute to the introduction of not only more order in labour legislation, but to introduce the right of our sailors, to equate them practically to sailors on domestic ships who, unfortunately, are only 5, 6 thousand, I don't know exactly, these are far more than 30,000 and I think the ultimate goal must go in the direction of raising these 6 thousand at least to cope with that number of sailors that are sailing either under foreign flags or otherwise. Of course, the system of health insurance as one of the basic preconditions that anyone who works to be able to feel the same, that he might feel safe and that in some way he might be a participant of this should always be as far as the seamen are concerned, because we know if they sail for over 6 months, some sail and longer, that the way they use these health services is important to comply with their needs, their capabilities, their specialist reviews clearly bring them into a condition that they can be at their service, the way of sick leave to make sure that there is no interruption. In some ways it is quite clear to me that it is difficult to put the subject clearly operational until the end, because of course we must not allow when it comes to a pension system that is also very sensitive, that they are condemned to work for up to 70 years, because of course neither foreign nor domestic employer will hold them for so long. Therefore, it is necessary to arrange these relations to make them not only even, but of course I am not for them to get something that does not belong to anyone in Croatia. In fact, the question of taxing all salaries in the Republic of Croatia must be in some way consistent with the principle of fairness and if someone can really get 20 thousand dollars a month, of course, there is no need for him not to pay an adequate part of the tax, is there, in any way. So, the arrangement of these relationships, I agree here with the secretary of state that the share that was so far existed, because they were self-associated insurance companies so far, that he wasn't too big. It may have affected certain seamen’s structures that were either for a certain time or were too small to sail, so these amounts were too large for them. This increase, relative increase is and should not be seen as a relative increase, but also as perhaps disproportionate reduction of those who have more and there is, in my opinion, a fundamental lack of this bill that those who have more, those who get more will pay less and that is quite controversial to me and I am not convinced that this should remain so. Of course, the fundamental thing that a country does to the maritime land is certainly a system of training of sailors, the way in which we will educate this professional staff, how we will reach this resource that should ultimately defend these Croatian colors on our ships, the reason why shipbuilding should be strengthened. If we do not establish this system of maritime education that we know of once in Croatia was very high, then of course it is still questionable to grow in maritime Croatia and of course this "bypassing" to obtain licences abroad should not be observed in a good form. As for those debts arising as a result of the uncertainty of the current maritime code system to amendments, the government is trying to reduce this in some way through the opening of the possibilities to extend debt payments, to reduce certain interest, to make it more bearable for the debt system that exists. I think that perhaps we should be here and it would be good to really do what counterpart Tadic said, to consider the write-off of those debts that occurred not so much by the guilt of the seamen themselves who stayed and became debtors, but simply the legislator created such circumstances in which it obviously did not happen individually but in some ways almost most of the seamen were covered by such measures. And for that reason, I think it would be good to think about, or to accept those amendments that contribute to the aim of simply applying this law from 2008 to a zero point of view, to regulate labour law, pension and social security in accordance with these proposals, valid norms, to think about censorships when it comes to the exemption from income tax, and that the issue of debt which is clearly highlighted as a problem for both trade unions and seamen is tried to regulate in accordance with those amendments that go in favour of the burden so that there are no reasons why these debts would simply be deleted and that the sailors are given a lot of wind in their sails so that they can continue and that Croatia simply goes to its own right path to become a maritime country in the full sense of that word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92169	Thank you. An individual debate. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Irena Ahel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92170	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Well, here I really believe that Croatia is a maritime country, and this is a good maritime country, and therefore I think it is important that the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Sea, which today is at the debate in the Croatian Parliament, to include all Croatian seamen in the single tax, pension and health system of the Republic of Croatia. It is about all sailors of Croatian nationality and there are about 32,000 of them, whether they sail on ships under domestic or on ships under a foreign flag. One of the major problems with modern maritimeity in Europe is the lack of personnel. Since we know that Croatia is a country of seamen and that our sailors are highly appreciated in the world, it is good to take care of their education, their training and their systematic education. The proposed solutions refer to the social and working status of all Croatian seamen sailing on ships of foreign and Croatian state belongings and in international navigation. I believe that such solutions are good and enables seamen to be users of health care and pension insurance rights, as well as of billing and income tax bonds achieved on the basis of receipts from work on board. I will refer specifically to some of the provisions of the law or the consequences that will arise from what I consider to be particularly good and that they should be highlighted and repeated. A ship's crew member in international navigation, regardless of the nationality of the ship that has residence in the Republic of Croatia or the usual residence, shall obtain an exception from the obligation to pay income tax if he has sailed 183 days or more in the year for which the income tax obligation is determined. The time of 183 days does not have to be connected and can be added to the days of sailing from the previous year which as excessive has not been included in the previous year. I think it's one provision that will be good for the seamen. Through a previously established maritime supplement in a valid code that makes up an untaxable part of the income will now cover all of our sailors, crew members of the ship in international navigation regardless of the state of the ship. Thus, the largest number of crew members in international navigation will be exempt from paying income tax. The seafarer is also obliged to submit an annual application of income tax and to submit, with the application, an excerpt from the Maritime Book or a boarding licence as proof of the number of days carried out on board the ship in international navigation, and to account for non-income tax receipts. The implementation of mandatory recording of navigation services in the Maritime Book, whether on board a ship under domestic or on a ship under a flag, will be certified by the competent port captainy. The certified shipping service will be recognised as the basis for passing professional examinations for the acquisition of maritime calls and will also serve as a basis for recording all Croatian seamen in the pension, health and tax system of the Republic of Croatia, and we know that this has not been regulated so far. The Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development has prepared a new Regulation on Maritime Books and Permissions for boarding and jurisdiction of port captains for publication, which will be required by all Croatian sailors to enroll their navigation service in the Maritime Book. About 26 thousand Croatian sailors are expected to be gradually covered by the pension, health and tax system on ships of foreign shipowners. Only some of these sailors will be taxpayers, depending on the number of days in navigation, but each will be obliged to contribute to compulsory insurance pension, health, health protection of health at work, etc. Go on. The amendment and addition of the Maritime Code shall also ensure the application of the 1996 Convention on the Employment and Allocation of Seafarers, which the Republic of Croatia ratified in 2005, in such a way as to provide for the possibility that the work of interventions in the employment of seamen on domestic and foreign ships should be carried out by legal persons who meet the conditions to be defined under the Convention by sublaws. Today, Croatian sailors sailing on ships of state belonging to which they board through various maritime agencies or shipowners in Croatia and abroad, whose work is not regulated by Croatian legislation. In this way, effective access by Croatian sailors on the world labour market is ensured, but under supervised conditions that allow for additional safety and protection of the rights of the seamen. Finally, we can freely say that the country that recognises the specificities of maritime shipping and creates special conditions and special status according to the world's operating conditions can be considered a maritime country. I believe that this law must be passed because we will thus enable seamen to resolve their status and their obligations in a more painful and quality way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92171	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92172	Mr. President, in fact, this bill of law was meant to be defended by Minister Shucker and not by the Secretary of State and the Sea Captain. Because if you look at their facial expressions, you'll see that they're not exactly behind this bill. I think there's an interesting phenomenon going on here, and I'd say today that this change of law has more cultural implications than fiscal implications. I'd almost say that I'm going to lean symbolically on my debate about the Law on cattle farming that rooted out little gauze. Croatia and the Croatian Sea, the Adriatic Sea is today a participant in the fight of three territorial instincts. I'd call it a killer instinct first. These are the people who, who suddenly in the war and after the war got rich, bought yachts worth between a million and 10 million euros. There are about 150 of them in Croatia, from the tomb tycoon Slavko Linic, who has a value vessel somewhere from hundreds of thousands of euros to Keruma, which has a 10m-euro yacht. So these 150 boat owners who are trained sailors come down to take up space and demonstrate their luxury and force. Mr. Kerum, let's say he ordered 100 Don Perignones and served in the buchars. This is contrary to the Bodul culture of thrifty, modesty, the flow of kuna and dinars from left to right, I take there and my colleague of state secretary and Tonci Tadic as a paradigm and bodulous savings, and the Captain's consciousness, I would almost say the mentality of a hamster who as a nomad flies around the world, always brings a little something, a picture, brings a rare plant, builds a summer house, saves it on coffee in our cafe, as well as a colleague, Tadic invests in the restoration of a family stone house. So in this sense, 150 thousand small vessels on the Adriatic, ownership of us from the coast and from the island are clashing with this murderous spirit that comes as once Croats on the sea in the skins of horses, wonders the sea and wants to win it. The third group coming down, Mr. President, is foreign tycoons. They are even more powerful than these Morlaks, meaning that they have won not only Croatian power at the moment, because you see a colleague Milanovic is from Glavica village of the small one near Sinj town of Viteshko, and our esteemed model prime minister is from Dobobala. There's also Todoric who has the biggest yacht. So, Mr. President, I'd like to say...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92173	And where are we?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92174	I'm up for it, Mr. Seaman Shakespeare, to regulate this issue in a sensitive way. I think there's a dangerous precedent going on. Everything is seen through taxes, tax collection. Those sailors are big cultural capital. These 30,000 traveling around the world's seas, who write songs about these ships, who write letters are part of this people's cultural wealth, and we, with all due respect to Mr. Shucker, must not allow what happens symbolically at this level to happen, but will soon appear in this High House and a proposal to abolish the unique birth number and determine a unique tax number. It's a major civilizational shift backwards. Yes, as citizens, we are reduced to tax payments. I would like to plead with you, Mr. President of the Parliament, on this occasion, before this scandalous anti-civilization law arises on the abolition of the status of unity of each and every one of us. Everyone in this High House from Maria Byte to the assistant bishop of Ivas, are unique persons. They'll never work like that again. And in that sense, he would pray that with much more tolerance, relations to those 30, 40, 50 million kunas that we intend to collect from these sailors. What will happen to our athletes who earn 10.50m euros, who also for years have not paid taxes for decades, and we consider them Croatian patriots for many reasons. And it would finally end this discussion with a little appeal. It's a good time, and I'd like to appeal first of all to Damir Cain. I come from Podgora, from the cradle of the Navy, the Partizan anti-fascist. So there are new times. I even persuaded the Holy Flight of our Admiral to be the first commander of the Croatian Navy. I would also ask you, Mr. President of the Parliament, to restore this tradition, for Podgorica to become again a cradle of the anti-fascist naval movement, which we owe a great tradition of victory at sea from the battle of Lefant where it was in the Allied forces of about 90 thousand vessels as taught by Mr. Tonci Tadic, there were about 9% of around 8 thousand, and these were vessels a little larger than this poverty they have in your islands and colleagues, Tadic. There, it means only a little more respect and that in the making of such laws, cultural factors, cultural capital are taken seriously, and that we do not just count on how to get these taxes and collect contributions, because that is not what must be in the first place of our attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92175	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, a respected representative and vice president of the House, Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92176	Since the word is spoken publicly and due to future history, I must correct the incorrect allegations about how Admiral Sveto Letica became the first commander of the Croatian Navy. After talks with President Tudjman then as a member of the SDP, he spoke with President Ivica Racan and with me and with the agreement of our party to become the first commander of the Navy. He later moved to HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92177	Replica is a respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92178	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is my colleague Letica, of course, in his always very inspiring performances, he encouraged me to look back at this bodulous austerity and our secretary of state who really does everything to get as many taxes from one side of the state, fill the register, and on the other hand, that the state has what, as little commitment to its citizens as possible. And I'd like to back that up from the Law of the Sea since 1994, where the explicits were Chapter 3 of Article 801 and until 809, where the state had not taken it after 10 years, then it was owned by a state where the whole of that chapter in 2004 by the adoption of this Law of the Sea had not been, it was no longer classified, but it was clouded in... 2 from there about 710 to 788 articles under the head rescue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So even though we're signatories to international conventions on this, it's not as explicit as it was in the old Maritime Code, the state has committed to bear the costs if there's an environmental incident.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92179	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92180	I agree more or less with the position of my colleague, but I would only tell Mr. Arlovic if so St. Letica was in the SDP and he was, I took him to President Tudjman and in two minutes he agreed to be not as the SDP commander of the Croatian Navy but as a Croatian patriot and a great maritime winner. Restore his house to me on behalf of the SDP in Podgorica. I'll take you, Mr. Arlovich. Make a foundation for Saint Letty and rebuild his family's house.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92181	Second, second replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear fellow Letica, I believe we'll agree when you talk about our athletes and pay our athletes' taxes, and when you compare our athletes with our sailors, there is still a big difference between them. Our sailors who sail on ships for a larger number of months a year are still difficult to compare with athletes because our sailors live without their families far from their houses and yet it is a little different. I believe we'll agree to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92183	The answer is not a replica of the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92184	Well, I agree, but there's one precedent, one paradigm. Athletes Bodul Goran Ivanišević. So even though he has a valuable vessel, he acts like he owns a small vessel. He doesn't throw plastic bags into the sea, he knows how to drink "Don Perignon" and doesn't use bouquets and doesn't close hotels and doesn't order singers to have those folk parties. You can therefore be a athlete and respect the Adriatic Sea and can pay taxes neatly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92185	And... A sailor can be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92186	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Captain. I come from a region that is still sea-oriented and I have a lot of friends and acquaintances who deal with this difficult and painful maritime work. These people live a difficult life and are separated from their homes and their families, and that is why they need them, and therefore they need maximum attention. The maritime code was passed in 2004 and has 1032 articles, and was preceded by the 1994 Maritime Code with two amendments. These changes concerning a foreign ship are not so significant and the navigation skills show only the development of rights in that area. Such cases for changing the law are almost daily. The paper, however, is the intervention in the employment of seamen and the payment of taxes and the contribution of seamen. As regards the intervention in the employment of sailors, the solution so far was that only the Croatian Employment Service could be performed. We've had and we've got a marine employment system that hasn't been operational, and it's not today. The result is the emergence of private intermediaries and agents in the employment of sailors who have earned millions to say insufficient work by state institutions. The only law authorised to intervene in the employment of seamen. Millions of gentlemen, let's not fool ourselves from the pockets of sailors in one way or another, end up in the pockets of private intermediaries. Complete students and students of maritime universities were unable to provide the employment they needed to obtain their calling. But what is offered by this solution? With a new solution, this work can be done by other people. Thus, a legal thing that has become legal until the entry into force of this amendment to the law is illegal practice with sometimes inappropriately high fees from those persons and no legal protection of the seamen. The legal and theoretical question is, is it necessary to place this matter in the work and social field, rather than in the area of the Maritime Code? As regards taxes and seamen and their tax and seafaring contributions, the proposed change is that the crew member in international navigation is a taxpayer. Unless he sailed 183 days and more in the year in which the obligation was determined. The problem comes down to the fact that from the creation of an independent Republic of Croatia to the present day, their rights and obligations in the segment of health and pension insurance have not been dealt with systematically by seamen, but also with taxes. So far, it has all been said that the seamen are asked to make maximum payments for no service, or the state has kept a close eye on the application of certain regulations that were considered illogical. Representatives of the Maritime Unions have warned partners of a Congressional Resolution under which the Maritime Unions cannot give support to amendments and amendments to the Maritime Code unless the obligations of the seamen are resolved at the beginning of the law. According to the data available to us and relating to the period until 2003, they are talking about registered 1738 debtors with debts. They demand a total of 47 million 318 thousand 451 kuna without including interest. 90% of the debt is to the Peace Fund, 7% to 8% to the Health Insurance Fund, and the rest is to all other insurance. It should be pointed out that there are 63,000 kunas on the tax debt. If interest were included, the debt would increase by an additional 30 million kuna. The partners also opted for the assistance of that part of the seamen who had already come under the pressure of forced debt collection. The common position is that, in addition to the law of the established reduction of the claim through a more precise determination of the debt period, the reduction of potentially incorrectly fixed tight interest rates, i.e. obsolete ones, should find the possibility that the remainder of the real debt should be paid discounted in a way that the possible debt payment would suddenly be reduced by 80%, the quarterly debt reduction would be 50% and 30%, respectively. It is also proposed to leave the possibility of paying the debt in 12 wars. The legal and theoretical question is whether the matter is numbered 183 or some other number, so whether it should be placed in another area, not in the Maritime Code, which is a comprehensive maritime code and which should not be dealt with by counting days and paying taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92187	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92188	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Today, by discussing this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code with the Final Proposal of the Law, we are discussing people who eat bread with seven crusts. We are discussing our sailors who have spent decades, I would say, and centuries have passed the maritime glory of Croatia. But unfortunately, however, one general declaration of Croatia's commitment to the sea is a maritime orientation that has not come down from the mouth of all authorities since the 1990s. But here's the fact that the situation is completely different. In addition to destroying the fleet in various ways, let's just remember that great river shipman mentioned by counterpart Antesic. But we also sold many of our ships that were our white beauty, the beauty of the Adriatic. However, here is the real submission of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Sea. Finally, here is the power to understand that the status of the seamen should be adequately resolved, and here I personally support these amendments as in my speech, saying on behalf of the SDP club, our colleague, Peru, did. It was finally time to get rid of this status of our seamen so that we could improve this calling because here are the irrefutable facts testifying exactly how the interest in calling it declines. Unfortunately, this is not only the situation here in Croatia and Croatia, but also the European countries that used to be world sea forces. A similar situation is happening. In time, however, they have just reacted to their legislation to make such an interest again attractive to young people. Finally, I say it is Croatia, and Norway did it in 1987 even though it is not a country of the European Union. But, of course, the land of sailors, the land of fishermen. So far, the condition that has particularly kept our seamen from earning their bread by sailing on ships under foreign flags. So their social status was extremely inadequate. Health insurance, a lot of people were paying him off. But the realization of health insurance when they found themselves in Croatia could not achieve in the fullness as other health insurance companies do. It's the same for retirement. A similar situation is with pension insurance. That's how they couldn't achieve that benefit-free job experience. Although the conditions under which they work, and in general how they live, I say, the best way to say is to eat bread with seven crusts. So, finally, here are the sailors, making it easier for the sailors to make this status easier and our legislation will also create the conditions of business for our sailors and shipmen as they have flags of convenience. On my own, I would especially like to point out what is good, which is why our sailors often met when they experienced different accidents floating under foreign flags, and this responsibility of that foreign shipman was often questionable, so they were often disabled in the exercise of their rights. Of course, it was not easy to find a pronoun who had just one specific knowledge, especially in front of foreign courts as local authorities, given the accident where it happened. With such a bill, where our legislation is also in line with the legislation of the maritime countries, that is, the countries of the European Community are still going to change. I would especially point out, therefore, that the Maritime Union itself, which had earlier almost identical remarks on what we indicated in 2004 when the law was passed and therefore, here is the only observation. And usually with good suggestions. The only point is why it hasn't been done before. But here's better, I say, better ever than never. But it is high time, given the difficult situation in the sea, especially in Croatia when there is more and more, and nothing new small shipmen who are torturing to assemble the crew. Of course, the competition of labour from eastern countries is large, that they are ready to sail under considerable, under conditions and with significantly lower wages. However, here in this world, both in the European and European labour markets, the Croatian seafarer is appreciated. However, with this bill of law, I see somehow the possibility of solving the training for maritime calling. For the first time in several years, certain classes in maritime schools cannot be completed, I note what the situation is and what it is with the Maritime School in Zadar. So they support the adoption of this final bill, yet here is what he said, and colleague Peru may have time. Look, Mr. Secretary of State, inform the minister, the government that he is responding in an adequate manner, because there are going to be different situations in these older sailors. What will happen to this 48 million kuna claim? Is this going to be settled in an adequate way in order to address some clean situation and with some confidence in the implementation and application of this law so that our sailors are open, undermining all these obligations, taxes and contributions that are absolutely in their interest and that corporate them into our complete legal system, the own social security system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92189	Thank you. Replica, the respected vice president of the House, Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92190	Dear colleagues, Ingrid Anticevic, I think that we should leave a little time before voting on this law in the final proposal that the Government should fix it a little further. For the sake of illustrations, I will mention only a few provisions present here, such as Article 36 concerning Article 37. Article 36 states that the Minister in charge of finance affairs, with the agreement of the Minister, is to be thought of by the sea, will adopt implementing regulations within 6 months relating to the level of the maritime allowance and the maritime supplement, etc., etc., etc. And it is said in paragraph 2 in 37 that, since 1 January 2008, taxation will also be applied in this respect. I'm not sure it's that those two deadlines can be complemented by each other. That should probably cut it short. Because we would have to know, however, that under these implementing regulations, people will actually be filling out forms, working, filing applications, and it would be good for those deadlines to be reduced by 3 months so that people can be educated from the day of entry into force of this Law. The second remark to be reviewed, as referred to in Article 12, amending or supplementing it, is amended in Article 126, which so far had a strange formulation as is known, which was believed to be in the ship, public transport in line with the coastal sea transport carried out between Croatian and foreign ports is not considered to be a vessel in international navigation. It's a fact you know easy today in practical terms when it comes to transportation I don't know between the shores of our up to over behind Trieste or I don't know, about Bar. However, I would like to remind you that we had lines from Rijeka via Split to Tirana, that is, Albania. And let's hope we have lines like that. And in such a situation, these provisions can hardly survive. And that's why it would be good for that part to be reconsidered and to be precise. Because it's not just about the ship's rights, or the sailor's rights, it's about the ship. And yet, according to international security, something a little different is when it comes to the open sea and when the ship hits the open sea than what we would like to turn off here. Well, that's why I think we should go over it again and examine it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92191	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92192	My colleague Arlovic, I think you are well, that you have apostrophe of this article 36, although you have pointed to another situation. But I would take advantage of here as appropriate to you as to what the government is doing right now and with its famous HitroRez project. So where it abolishes by existing laws a whole series of sublegal acts. On the other hand, you can also see in Article 36 that he again obliges the Minister of Finance's affairs, but also the Minister of this Resor, so that he can adopt a regulation which will also prescribe the level of maritime allowance for a member of the crew by means of a statement of information on taxable incomes and benefits on which no income tax is paid, so that is that tax supplement and the tax recognition of the expenditures and methods of proving the number of days... First of all, not only does the government somehow jump into its own mouth, so it abolishes sublaws in existing laws, and reintroduces these sublaws in new laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it was good for counterpart Tadic to draw attention to these, which drew attention to the fact that these are things that should be found in the law in one general way by avoiding every volunteerism, as well as some administration and something that individual sailors in different situations would be rewarded differently, i.e. freed in view of legal possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92193	Honorable representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92194	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Government. Well, mostly speaking on behalf of the SDP club, I expressed the club's position in relation to this bill that is before us today, and my own. And I must express my satisfaction that we are talking about Croatia's seafaring, meaning under these amendments and additions and debates on Croatian maritimeity because it deserves this debate, adapting the rules of Croatia from the maritime domain to the countries of the European Union, Europe and the world is necessary. Regardless of whether the Croatian maritime economy has no significance which it should have and which it has had in its time, but deserves a special attention, one special... , well, if you want to because of those traditional values that both fellow Letica and some other MPs here have spoken about and the subject is too serious. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I say some Croat line I've personally created, there aren't 74 ships we've been hanging around the world. It was former Yugoslavia, later renamed Croatica line and unfortunately destroyed as Croatia's line. I live in the belief that last night we talked about the "Maestro" action and I sincerely hope that the "Maestro" action will go backwards and I'm not afraid of it so it will come to Croatia line. However, something I want to say is too serious that I could not support the amendment and supplementation of the maritime code here because the provisions proposed by pro futuro are absolutely acceptable when it comes to resolving the status of Croatian seamen. Pro futuro has no doubts about those who will become seamen from 1.1.2008 are equated in the right appropriate to the European Union which has made it possible to do so because the directive is to go to tax exemptions and contributions, even to zero. Therefore, it is necessary to be objective and to say that pro futuro status is resolved, that Croatian sailors stop being second-class citizens, that they are introduced into the Croatian pension, health and tax system as well as other citizens. We've also heard the basics that will be accounted for. Thus, in that part it is absolutely acceptable. It seems to me that it's the majority point of view of everyone who's reported here today for debate. The only question that is doubtful is the ones that have reached them, and the claims that have not been charged. How to resolve this, because I would like to remind you that the debt is mainly the one relating to the debt with the basis of the pension insurance which, according to the law, could have been accounted for and forced to charge by '98. Years, and by changing the law in '98. the years from then until today the debt obligation with this basis is based only on the application made by the obligor himself, not the institution. The 2004 bill on resolving the social status of seamen has brought nothing new. The shipowners hoped that by exempting the profit tax they would compensate for a part in terms of which some of them are, for example, tanker navigation has taken over the payment obligation 50%, and there has been an increase in wages, but they have again come into a non-competitive situation with respect to foreign shipowners and started their calvaries with maritime personnel insurance because demand on the world maritime market is extremely high. At this point, according to some estimates of the officer's staff, there's about 50 grand missing and it's not hard to find a job. If I didn't have much longer, I know that the representatives of the government here present Mr. Bacic and Captain Babic know that I know that they know what the key problem is and I would suggest that today on this law, what counterpart Arlovic said we do not vote, that we take another 8 days until next Friday and try to find an optimal solution to what we know is a problem and that burdens today's situation on the maritime market, and that is the question of outstanding and unpaid claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92195	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92196	So here's Mr. Peru in a few sentences just to rephrase when you're talking about a debt with the basis of the pension insurance that the seamen should be paying for and to get into the Croatian pension system. In fact, it might be an interesting idea to sort of level with the already existing practice that some sports clubs are dealing with. You know for a fact that 700 million kunas have freed some sports clubs from it our biggest clubs, which is "Dinamo" and "Hyduk" 600 million kunas. So if we freed these clubs with so much money, then I think Croatian sailors deserve to at least, if not entirely, but at least by some similar model, they are released and introduced into the Croatian pension system so that they are somehow evened out at least partly with their hard work, with our football players.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92197	And respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92198	Well, here's a colleague of Peru, you were talking about the ship's problems of how to complete and form the crew. However, this is the problem that we have all pointed out here together, but it is not a particular problem that our shipmen also meet and their country, and I guess in tradition, although it claims the opposite does not pay off, that the state does not normally pay off its obligations to its users under certain laws, so many boaters and in the Zadar area wait for the state to give them, or pay off subsidies. There's a boater who's looking for nearly 800, 900 thousand kuna and no interest. They spend their precious time in the county, they call up to the ministry, promises, and is not solved or given on a drop. So wait, etc. It's not one serious business. How can such a shipowner plan and carry out their obligations to the State in a manner that does not comply with its obligations to the State at all. And yet, he is bound to pay and pay his workers, i.e. the sailors and then we go back to that vicious circle that unfortunately doesn't follow just here, the boaters, but there it is, has become one widespread phenomenon again.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92199	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92200	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Marinović, thank you for this replica, I am very welcome to warn you of a problem of approximately the same nature that you were talking about. Let's say it's very commendable to the SDP club and the HSP club as I recall opening up were in this assembly discussing the price of fuel for shipowners, small boaters, tax exclusion or road charges, etc., and it is commendable and I support that the government has provided 10 million for this year's budget as far as I know for the refund of these fuel costs. But look, I'm going to take this opportunity since you're also the Secretary of State, Captain Babic. Don't make them over-administer them. You know as well as I do. There's a book of fuel consumption, there's a book of broken sea miles, there's a logbook. And now make them come to the port captains to have an officer, an employee in the port captain, verify something that he won't go to check, simply what the little boatman brings him that will confirm it to him and accept it as healthy for granted. If there are suspected abuses in this regard, you know that the ability to control is clear, possible and free them, the small shipmen of this unnecessary administration. And let's give that refund when we've already secured the funds in the state budget because this really drives them crazy and puts them in one situation where there's really no need and the state has the ability to control if it wants to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92201	Thank you. Five minutes of debate. HSP's respected representative, Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92202	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, gentlemen of the Ministry! It's been said a whole series of thesis about how good this law is. I'd go in line on behalf of our club to kill some of them. So, the fact is that the maritime supplement we want here to set as something that evaluates the law to be fixed on half of a personal deduction and to know the legal size and not to determine it by its mercy. Currently, the maritime supplement is evaluated as an untaxable part and amounts to 250 kuna per day for domestic lines, and about 400 kuna per day for international lines or for ships flying under foreign flags. Our proposal would make it over 800 kuna. The fact is, then, that the basis for calculating all the contributions of the accounts towards the completed school is, rather than the work being done. So a cadet with a sea school has a base of nine thousand kuna. And now we've got a crazy situation that someone can be in the command post with medium professional training and have five times the salary of that cadet, but they'll have the same base as the middle expert cookout, while the cadet will continue to beat those 9,000 kuna bases. And for this guy with a bigger salary, he's going to be the basis of the one that Secretary of State Bacic was talking about. I, too, and the HSP club, have been imputed to this to protect those who have a $15,000 beach. Watch out. Those who receive a salary of $15,000 are already on jobs that last longer than half a year, and with this law they are actually exempt from paying any taxes. You freed them from paying any obligation to the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it simply drank upside down as far as this law is concerned. And now let me get back to the past. In 2004, this particular ministry led by the incoming secretary of state and the minister insisted on that experiment when the amendments to the legislation tried to get 4,000 people to be taxed. There were only 700 of them, and they sat the debt of 54 thousand kunas on average. Now it counts to catch 20,000 people with even more debt, and that's facts. But the fact is that a tanker sail that wanted to stick to the letter of the law has practically run out of frame. So there is another detail that is really phenomenal to me, which is that we know that there are a lot of people who work outside of Croatia well-paid jobs but are not sailors. You won't hunt them, but you will hunt the sailors because you have something to hunt them through the matrix. Well, then, where you can see the possibility of a hack, you pick it up right away. So, of all these taxes, the shipowner will have little use and, as one of my predecessors said, the meaning of this law, the essence of the law is that the sailor on the international voyage has become a taxpayer with this, and that it is inevitable for him. And all of the government's amendments only go for debt to pay on the wars with great mercy that he doesn't have to pay interest on it. That's all, so as far as these major amendments of yours and these amendments to the law are concerned. So we ask that the height of the maritime allowance be established in law, not by the grace of the minister, and equal to half of the personal deduction. We ask that the line be drawn under so far owed and not be charged retrogradely. We ask that those who apply within two years of the law be included. And we're looking to end up in the House to start having a debate on all other aspects of maritime work and employment and education and what the state is giving it, not just so it can collect taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92203	Thank you. The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I repeat, the HSS club supported the intensities of these changes and the additions that go towards the fact that offices are applied in labour legislation, that offices are related to health and pension insurance, in one word to arrange that part of the infrastructure that has been not only unregulated but also harmfully arranged. This is only one level of technical level and the level is not enough to provide one general assessment of the quality of these changes and additions. We can't discuss this too seriously. We have a whole series of grudges stemming partly from these changes and additions that are unclear to the end, which do not give the balanced right, so we will say that we will equally tax the one with the smallest offerings and the one with the highest offerings, and that is the basic problem in this bill. Secondly, of course, the HSS club fully supports the maritime supplement must be explicit in this bill. Everything we leave to the sublegal acts, to the ministers' thoughts, it all gets the same role to actually turn against the law. Therefore, we cannot support the intensities that go in that sense. The most important thing I've talked about, we still don't recognize the system of maritime education, we're still talking about things everyone sees if they open their eyes. The education system is broken. He suffered a breakdown in the Republic of Croatia. We are trying to buy it again as goods we do not want to produce in Croatia that bofel goods under the education system want to import from the outside. Inadmissible. As inadmissible as I was talking to the captain's break, the school boat a sailboat type loger won't build on wood because it's supposed to be of no interest but we'll build it out of grapes. With this, we insert a zingan noise into the cap of a dead Croatian wooden shipbuilding. That's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92205	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92206	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I don't know if I'd say his grief or better to our joy, but the education system certainly didn't fail. We have an extraordinary system of education that we recognize and beyond the Croatian borders. Just to remind you, when negotiating with the European Union, this is exactly the part that has passed without any objections, in line with European legislation with gains, and not to mention the results achieved by our experts, our students and teachers, etc. And secondly, what you said about Croatian shipbuilding, it's really just an honor to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92207	State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Branko Bačić, final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92208	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. I thank you at the end of the debate for the contribution you made in this debate and I hold that to the greatest extent that this support for these amendments to the Maritime Code, part of the parliamentary deputies said, however, that these changes to the Maritime Code are good, though only pro-futuro and not for the existing seamen who have already earned a certain debt to pension, health insurance to a very small extent of debt relating to income tax. So I'd say two doubts can arise from the debate itself. The first is whether this way of determining the state towards Croatian seamen is even more imposing on their obligations to pay pension and health insurance and income taxes and the second is how to valorise their existing debts arising from the non-payment of those commitments from previous years, which are indeed made on the basis of us in the Government, in my opinion, the personal bases which were not encouraging and were not suitable for the weight of the maritime title. When it comes to this first question of whether this is an additional, or an increased wage charge, on the reception of sailors, then I think it's quite clear there. So with these changes to the Maritime Code, these obligations of Croatian seamen towards pension and health insurance will be almost three times less. So much for that. As for taxes, all seamen who are more than 183 days a year in navigation will be free of income tax bonds. Therefore, and if the seafarer is still less than 183 days away, then his obligation for those 4, 5 months as long as he is in navigation and receiving in those 4-5 months will be extended to 12 months, when he will clearly, with personal deductions and with the current maritime supplement, reduce his tax base so much that a very small number of high officer titles in the Republic of Croatia will at all pay taxes. So when he's not sailing for more than 183 days and that's clear to all of us. The second doubt referred to the fact that as Mr Tadic said, so we want to hunt sailors with this as if our goal is to make the seaman as small as possible in Croatia or to treat the seamen as second-class citizens in any other way. In fact, we said that according to these amendments to the Maritime Code, the debt created by the basis of the non-payment will be reduced by three basics. The first base was therefore the one relating to the recognition of the statute of limitations for all those debts incurred according to which they were not paid within the legal period. The second thing, therefore, is that we will not use a tight interest and a third thing that we will allow the reduced, reduced debt to be made available through the roundabout payment over 24 months. And when it is spoken and compared to how many of us are in the maritime country, and we are trying to compare ourselves with European states that are maritime states, then I would like to say that only a few countries in Europe have treated all seamen in this way, and that is England, Ireland and Norway, which is not a Member State of the European Union, but which solves in a similar way. And we went one step further. These countries shall only grant such subsidies to their seamen if they sail under, on ships under the European Union. And we, with this Naval Code, have included sailors who sail independently of the shipowner, or the flag that the number grows. We therefore did not limit ourselves to this Maritime Code only to countries, ships owned by Croatian shipowners or only ships owned by European shipowners, although I am saying we have an example that the Member States of the European Union have limited themselves to ships flying their flags. And when we talk about how much and which government accesss the sea as one of its most important segments, as one of the most important features of the state, the Croatian Government is when it comes to sailors, when it comes to the shipowners, and I will only briefly count those measures that talk about how much we care about Croatian boaters and Croatian sailors. First of all, we have made it possible for the Law of the Sea that all Croatian shipmen who sail in international navigation are not bonds to pay taxes on profits, and that is, in the years when the conukture of the world's market is the largest, when drivers are the largest, when the revenues from the train are realised so that the shipowners can operate with profits and this significant profit. Today, shares of the largest Croatian shipmen are certainly the most attractive on the Croatian stock exchanges, and in those times we have allowed them not to pay taxes on profits and those funds that are not small to enter into the renewal of the fleet. And today, all the more important Croatian shipmen are in the great process of rebuilding the fleet. The second thing we've also brought in is that we've made it possible for small boaters with 10% funding to build their ships for the needs of the travel fleet. As of this year, we are introducing a subsidy to all Croatian shipmen, small boaters carrying out this occasional passenger and excursion traffic to subsidize the difference in fuel prices between those who pay and the fuel prices that would pay that the so-called fuel prices were introduced behind them. Blue Diesel. When it comes to sailors from last year, the first scholarship has been introduced in Croatia's history for all Croatians, students and students who have enrolled Croatian maritime colleges or secondary maritime schools. In those three years, we've already given about 220 scholarships to these seamen, these young people, to encourage them to engage in naval service. Furthermore, it is not true that the state budget is not a day late for any Croatian liner, and that is not true. The newly established agency for lined coastal maritime transport neatly monthly because the funds are on state budget, contracts with these shipmen are signed, not all obligations are paid in order to subsidise liner maritime transport in the Republic of Croatia and I would like to see Mrs Ingrid, who is a shipowner, a Croatian shipowner who carries out a liner of maritime transport to which the state budget owes 800 thousand kuna in order to get there just earlier on, I would very much like you to tell me what a boatman is. So all of these measures we have made a clear step towards Croatian boaters and Croatian sailors, and on this trail is this change of the maritime code that I must say that they have supported to the greatest extent Croatian sailors, that we have had a series of meetings with the Croatian union and that the fundamental difference between us and the Maritime Union was whether to completely write off the debt that came from previous years to all Croatian seamen or in this way one harmonisation, one by reducing that debt to all Croatian sailors. We heard today and here in the debate that the possible write-off of this debt might go against the principle of equality of all before the law. In order for there to be other interests in Croatia, other references in Croatia, which, whose members also owe the state budget enormous resources and I hold that by writing down a full debt, we may enter into something that we are not aware of at this time and I believe that in this way, this approach to a significant debt reduction, the calculation of the repayment has made a significant step towards the team more than possible since 1 January for all those seamen who first board Croatian ships such a legal measure is, in any case, an incentive and I hope that, in this way, we will really resolve the issue of all Croatian sailors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92209	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92210	... The real intentions of this law are best seen from the government's amendments and from the final provisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So on the one hand, it's said that it's not going to be charged to all the seamen who are more than 183 days in foreign navigation. However, when the debt counts, he does not count anywhere with the clause but as if they were in Croatia the whole time. So all of this together has only one purpose and it's made out of all the seamen however possible by taxpayers. And no help to the sailors.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92211	And the esteemed representative of Ante Markov, the correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92212	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the secretary of state said that small boaters will be provided with a subsidy for, in terms of fuel prices. They're not looking for a subsidy. Why? Because she's administratively very harmful to them. They want to be what they need to have, which is that they don't pay tolls, excises and other things, but they want to have a price of fuel for their ships like their neighbors in Italy and what Croatian fishermen have. So they have a so-called. Blue Diesel. They don't need any subsidies. Why are we now creating a new institutional framework called the subsidy and we already have a blue diesel that we have affirmed. Let's get the law ready to be the same for everyone and everyone will be happy. We won't have any problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92213	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm terminating until 13 o'clock session. We'll vote at 13 o'clock. We'll vote at 13 o'clock. ... So in 10 minutes we'll vote, shall we? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Not for lunch. [[Intruder: Don't for lunch.]] You'll have lunch after the vote, it'll go, it'll go fast. 13 o'clock Don't be, don't come by accident. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code. We've got a plate that's divided into MPs. Secretary of State Branko Bačić. Here you go. Mira! Amendment 1. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92215	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92216	It becomes an integral part of the law. 2. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92217	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92218	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92219	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92220	It's unacceptable. Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92221	Your Honor, Mr. President, this model we propose in this amendment provides a long-term solution and also prevents doubtful interpretations of the Maritime Code against the damage of the seamen. At present, the altitude of the marine supplement is determined by the rules, so the seamen are at the mercy of the minister. We want the height of the maritime allowance to be determined clearly in the law and in the half of the personal deduction and the Income Tax Act to therefore be automatically respected. In particular, we note that the current models of the calculation of personal deductions and marine additives are particularly inapplicable if all sublegal acts are taken. So we're going to this model. Please vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92222	The president of the HDZ club Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92223	I'm saying that for this law as well as the Budget and Electronic Media Act, we also vote by raising our hands when it comes to amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92224	Okay. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd Representative of Antun Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92225	It's unacceptable. In particular, Article 10 of the Treaty on the The Income Tax Act is prescribed that the tax is not paid on certain receipts paid by the employer to the worker, and paragraph 9 of that Article is individually as receipts which are non-taxable until the prescribed amount of that remuneration on the basis of compensation, support and remuneration. Article 64 of the Law provides for the power of the Minister of Finance to prescribe between other and non-taxable amounts of compensation, support, awards and other receipts based on non-permanent work that employers pay to workers. Based on this authority, the finance minister shall make a maritime allowance for the seafarers subject to the income tax rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92226	Representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92227	Approximately the same explanation as the SDP's Club of Representatives, I think this should be the HSP. I believe that the law should be regulated, not given up to the will of the administration, so whatever it is today, the HDZ or tomorrow of the SDPs, and I think this is an appropriate solution, and that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92228	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92229	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92230	It becomes an integral part of the law. 5th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92231	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92232	It's an integral part. Six. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92233	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92234	Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92235	We ask for the vote, Mr. President, because it is necessary again, as with our previous amendment, to define the maritime supplement by law, and by the not-will of the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92236	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 7th is consumed by the vote of the previous one. 8. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92237	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92238	It becomes an integral part of the law. Nine. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92239	It's unacceptable. In particular, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed appropriate solutions for all categories of seamen, and in particular the proposed way of delaying the payment of seafarers with the basis of contributions and taxes, and after the harmonisation and determination of the actual amount of debt, in equal monthly payments within a maximum period of two years, and provided that the monthly payments are paid within a period of no account of tight interest. The proposed way of providing a seafarer with all pension insurance rights because 90% of the seafarer's debt refers precisely to the pension insurance debt which will result in the absence of a suspension of the insurance period, i.e. a work experience that is not recognised unless the contributions are paid for any reason. Each seafarer shall remain entitled to write off the debt if an limitation of payment rights has taken place, as well as the right to write off the debt if the debt is not payable in accordance with the provisions of the general tax law which will be taken into account in each individual case in the process of harmonising the debt situation proposed by the amendment to the Government. The adoption of this amendment would lead to a more unfavourable situation for the remaining debtors, taxpayers with the basis of contributions to compulsory pension and health insurance and income tax compared to the category of seamen, and therefore the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92240	Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92241	Mr. Secretary of State, it's not like that. We ask for a vote for this amendment to be drawn once and to forgive those debts until the day of entry into force of this Law if these debts have any meaning at all. 'Cause watch out, sailors don't have the right to an underprivileged internship and who of them will work for up to 65 years... as a seaman and at the age of 55, he pays a contribution to employment, but they have no right to compensation for the unemployed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He pays a contribution to health insurance, but I can't use it, and in case they run out of work, they practically stay on the street. So we're asking that we simply draw a line and delete the debt with a degree of effect to this law. Everything else means actually that 20 thousand sailors will come under a debt of 50 and more thousand kuna. Is that really what we need? What you're proposing to your amendments is only a retrograde payment but to the wars. And notice, if the amendment doesn't pass, we'll ask for an assessment of the constitutionality of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92242	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the need for most of it. The tenth amendment is the same as this one, so we don't vote on it because it's consummated. Eleventh Government is an integral part of the law. The 12th Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92243	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-29-0.u92244	It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 89 for, 4 abstentions and 5 against the passed Law amending and supplementing the Maritime Law in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted. We're going to continue the session. - Final proposal of the Financial Insurance Act, emergency procedure - first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 706 The Proposer is Government. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. I'd like a representative of Pero Kovacevic, please.
