ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81572	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 24th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, Vice President, Vice-President and members of the Government. This session also begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which takes place in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure, which begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you to pay tribute at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. - It's a performance of the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. – I also invite you to pay a minute of silence honors to all fallen for Croatia, to burn for my country, to defend my country's work and to all civilian victims of the Homeland War in the fight and for Croatia's freedom. - A minute of silence. - Thank you. - Praise them. – You received a record of the 23rd session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 23rd session. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. In the final draft agenda, I left out one point: - Proposal for a Law on Construction of Buildings intended to maintain the 2009 World Handball Championship for Men with the Final Bill of Law. Because the proposed item was withdrawn from the procedure. I included three new points in the final draft agenda: 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in a Community programme on the interoperability of the provision of European cross-border electronic services to public administrations, entrepreneurs and citizens (IDABC), with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 616, 2. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the procedure of handing over authorities, second reading of P.Z. No. 516, 3. Proposal for a Law on Lists of Voters, first reading of P.Z. No. 615. Article 205 of the Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under points 1, 2 and 9 and points 11 and 24 shall state the laws for which the adoption of an emergency procedure is proposed. And that's one. Proposal for a Law confirming the 2006 annual financing agreement between the Commission of the European Communities on behalf of the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z. No. 611, 2. Proposal for a State Measurement Act and a real estate cadastre, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 612, 3. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on cooperation in preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction, its delivery systems and materials related to this maritime route, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 507. Fourthly, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in a Community programme on the interoperable provision of European cross-border electronic services to public administrations, entrepreneurs and citizens (IDABC), with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure. And fifth, Proposal for a Law on Equalisation of Pensions, State Retirement, with the Final Proposal of the Law, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. I note that, for the law referred to in the final draft agenda under point 2, it bears the P.Z.E. marking and on the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We do not vote in our Rules of Procedure, and this is the proposal for a law on national measurement and a cataster of real estate, with the Final Proposal of the Law. We also decided at the 20th session on the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on Cooperation in preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction of the system and its delivery and materials related to this maritime route. So we have a debate on whether or not to apply the emergency procedure for the three remaining proposed draft laws. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws, these three? There isn't. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these remaining three laws proposed by an emergency procedure? Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81573	Your Honor, Mr. President, despite the fact that there is no vote on the law under point 2 he is questioning the existence of any other geodesy and I think it would be a good idea for him to go into the regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81574	You can't go into regular procedure when he said it himself, Article 161. Please, let's get involved for the vote. First, let's say quorum. 85 present, so we have a quorum. We can vote. First we will vote for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law confirming the 2006 annual financing agreement between the European Communities Commission on behalf of the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 86 votes for, five abstentions, this law goes according to emergency procedure. Secondly, who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community programme on the interoperability of the provision of European cross-border electronic services to public administrations, entrepreneurs and citizens. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 84 votes in favour and 2 abstentions and this bill goes, it is entered by emergency procedure. And thirdly, who is a state pension proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Equality of Pension Retirement Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 36 for emergency procedures, 3 abstentions, 50 v, go into regular procedure. The written objection to the agenda I proposed with the invitation to the session was filed on 22 January this year by the club of HSP representatives. The club of HSP representatives on 4 July 2006 provided me with an interpretation of the work of the Government and other relevant bodies of the Croatian Parliament on sanctioning established illegalities in the conversion and privatisation since 15 December 2005. By letter dated 14 July 2006, I informed the HSP Representatives' Club that they could not refer that interpretation to the procedure because it was not made up in accordance with Article 190. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, since the interpretation can only open the debate on the work of the Government as a whole or in certain decisions of the Government or of the Ministry if they deviate from the general position of the Government or the Ministry in law enforcement or established policy, and the interpretation cannot open the debate on the work of other bodies proposed by the HSP Representatives' Club in its first proposal for interpretation. In accordance with Article 190(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure may also be submitted when a representative is not satisfied with the subsequent supplementary written reply of the Government or a member of the Government to the asked parliamentary question. In addition to the proposed interpretation, two responses were submitted by the Government to the representative's questions, Pera Kovacevic, to the additional parliamentary issue in connection with the conversion and privatisation of the tobacco factory Zagreb and the answer to the representative's question in connection with the conversion and privatisation of "NAMA" d.d. in bankruptcy. Representative Pero Kovacevic has not expressed dissatisfaction with the answer to the additional parliamentary question or with the answer to the parliamentary question. I note that, despite the letter which I explained, the Club of HSP Representatives puts an objection to the agenda for not entering the agenda at the 22nd session. I then requested the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on whether the interpretation was submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System delivered an opinion on 17 October 2006 stating that the interpretation was not submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This opinion was adopted by the Croatian Parliament at its 23rd session. Afterwards, the club of HSP representatives tells me about the work of the Government on the implementation of the conclusions of the Croatian Assembly on sanctioning established illegalities in the conversion and privatisation of 15 December 2005 on 18 October 2006, 31 October 2006 and 12 January 2007. I have warned the HSP Representatives Club every time why, in my view, the interpretation cannot be referred to the parliamentary procedure because those acts were not drawn up in accordance with Article 190(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to which the club of representatives was called. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament determines that the interpretation can also be submitted when the representative is not satisfied with the subsequent supplementary written reply of the Government or a member of the Government to the asked question. The club of HSP representatives cites the dissatisfaction of MP Pera Kovacevic with the government's response to the additional parliamentary question, which does not concern the implementation of the Croatian Parliament's conclusions as of 15 December 2005 but rather the conversion and privatisation of the tobacco factory "Duhan". In addition to this, there is no original signature of the representative and there is also the name of the late representative Josip Sudec, who has signed the previous interpretation in his own time. For these reasons, according to my view the objection to the agenda is, is not justified because there are no business assumptions that this point is placed on the agenda. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the Proposer of Interpletion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81575	And, Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club, I must say that what you said is not true. In fact, we objected to both non-interruption and the last 23rd session. You have neither responded nor been given to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the interpretation was made according to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. In response, the government was said to have nothing, therefore, that no procedure was initiated according to the Croatian Parliament's conclusions regarding the annulment of privatisation as a whole. And I can't accept your arbitrary interpretation. Obviously, it is your intention not to put this item on the agenda and to ask on behalf of the club to discuss it with the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Because the interpretation provided for the 23rd session was made at the position of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and your argument cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81576	Thank you. All right, I'll take it. I ask the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to arbitration in this recommendation on the application of the Rules of Procedure. There were no other written objections to the agenda I proposed with the call for the session and this agenda was in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. In accordance with Article 203(5) of the Rules of Procedure The Rules of Procedure of the Objection can now be made only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the procedure for the handover of authorities, second reading, was included under point 12. And under paragraph 13, the bill on voters' lists was included, first reading. Any of the MPs object to including any of the proposed items in the agenda? Any of the suggested items on the agenda? Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81577	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, we have no objection to some of the points included as the HSS Club but we propose a proposal for a conclusion that would oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed report on air pollution in Sisak and the number of ecological incidents from the refinery. But also to take measures to prevent them. The Air Protection Act was passed in 2004. It is generally known that numerous ecological incidents occurred in Sisak. This Law also enables those who pollute air to be disabled in a way that prohibits them from working. We are witnessing that numerous associations have also organized civil society in Sisak. I think that this should also be devoted to Parliament because in 2005 51 times the concentration of the average daily value of sulphur hydrogen was exceeded. Over 100 times this last year. We referred this proposal to the conclusion with an explanation. We believe that the government should introduce us to the situation and that it should propose measures to prevent them. We've also collected the signatures of the MPs so that this proposal will be included in this session by emergency procedure, so I'll hand it over to you now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81578	Okay. It's now received. This moment cannot be decided at the moment. We'll discuss this later, we'll discuss this proposal later. What is it now? Is he okay now? Afterwards, we will propose to include this proposal in the agenda. Please distribute it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the entire agenda proposed. I suggest if you agree as usual not to read the full agenda, but to announce that the agenda set out is as I have suggested in the final draft of the law. Thank you. The agenda has been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly propose, in accordance with Article 204(2), the addition of the agenda with two points. One is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. It's an emergency procedure. The second is the proposal for a conclusion which obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a detailed report on air pollution in Sisak and on the number of ecological incidents in the oil refinery and the adoption of measures to prevent them. Proposer of the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. In line with 205. The Rules of Procedure decide that a proposal is to be adopted by means of an urgent procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure of this proposal for a law on, amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Officials of State? There isn't. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 77 votes for, 1 abstention and 2 against and this proposal Final law included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the proposal for this conclusion of the HSS Representatives' Club for the entry into the agenda? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81581	I suggest Mr. President that due to a large number of amendments to some of the proposed laws here be voted by raising hands because it goes faster. It's much more effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81582	Thank you. It is. What is it? Ladies and gentlemen, please engage to determine the quorum. Some of them didn't get involved. Now we have a chance quorum. What? Let's hear it. Go ahead. Easy, easy. 79, good. Ladies and gentlemen, I will propose, in accordance with Rule 204 of the Rules of Procedure, an addition of the agenda to the following points. One, too. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Finance agreed between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on granting assistance from the Instrument for Pre-accession Structural Policy for the next step in preparing the list of projects for the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance in the Environment Sector in Zagreb with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, 2. Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance, agreed between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the granting of assistance from the instruments for pre-accession structural policy for the next measure of the regional waste management centre Bikarac in Sibenik-Knin County, 3. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Finance agreed between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on granting assistance from the Instrument for Pre-accession Structural Policy for the next step in preparing the list of projects for the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance and the Transport Sector, 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 12 May 1998. with the Final Proposal for the Law, 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Election Commission. That is, 6 proposals for an emergency procedure. Any of the MPs have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of any of the proposed laws? Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81584	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I have an objection on behalf of the HSS Club regarding the emergency procedure of the Law of Selection of Representatives. According to all indications we are in the election year and according to the Constitutional Law in the election year, i.e. At least a year before the election, such laws should not be considered in the Assembly. So does this mean that the elections are delayed for next year or are we in collegiate with this deadline when we say that we shouldn't change laws directly affecting elections in the election year, that is, to make?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81585	Article 4 is replaced by the following: The constitutional law for the implementation of the 2001 Constitution of interventions in electoral legislation is not allowed, it would be against the constitutional law if these interventions were to be made or made one year before the elections were held for the Croatian Parliament. This Croatian assembly of the Croatian Parliament was established on 12 December, 22 December 2003 and 20 February 2008 and pursuant to the Constitutional Law Article 4 may hold elections no later than 20 February 2008. Therefore, intervention in the electoral legislation is also in line with Article 4. Constitutional law implementing the constitutional law by 20 February of this year. Now, today, it's 2. So by 20 February, the Croatian Parliament will move within the framework of the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution and the Constitution for the adoption of electoral legislation. After that, we should not go to any intervention in electoral legislation after 20 February this year. Election legislation is the Law on election of MPs, the Law on Election Units. In a broader sense, it can also be understood about, the Law on the List of Voters, the Law on the State Election Commission, which is now on the agenda. The voters' list law was in the first reading. The government should if we adopt today the conclusion that it is going to the second reading next week to prepare the law, and next week we would finally adopt the Law on Lists of Voters. So is there anyone else commenting on? There isn't. Then we must vote. And the election will be in November this year. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Finance agreed between the European Commission and the Government on the granting of aid, I will shorten it a little bit, for, I'll do it a little bit better, that's for Bill No 620. Because. We can vote. The result? 76 for four abstentions. He's on the agenda for an emergency procedure. The second is the same proposal for a certification law, referring to the structural aid in Sibenik-Knin County No. 621. We can vote. The result? With 83 for, 2 abstentions. It's going. Then 622. We can vote. The result? 73 votes for and four abstentions. Emergency procedure. Fourth, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 12 May 98. Please vote. The result? 78 votes for, five abstentions, two against. He's going through an emergency procedure. Proposal for a law amending the Law on selecting representatives to the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 74 votes for, six abstentions, seven against. He's going through an emergency procedure. Finally, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get on with it. The result? With 77 votes in, 3 abstentions and 5 against. And this law goes according to emergency procedure. The addition of the agenda was thus established. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will interrupt the debate on this regulation report in no time, and I would like to propose to supplement the agenda of this session with 4 points: Final draft law on voter lists, second reading, Proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project of integration of trade and transport, emergency procedure, Proposal for a plan for harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal gains of the European Union for 2007, Appendix a) to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession of the European Union in 2007. And four. Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Administrative Council of HINA. We have only one proposal for a bill to be adopted by emergency procedure. This is the Law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project of integration of trade and transport. The president of the HDZ Representatives Club, Luka Bebic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81587	I suggest Mr. President that the vote be held on the agenda by hand-lifting because many MPs have reported that they have not taken or forgot to bring the keys.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81588	Okay. The proposal is here. Please, who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Law confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development? Thank you. Against? Unanimously with 85 votes included in the agenda of this draft law by emergency procedure. Does anyone have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? These three. There isn't. I note that the proposal on distrusting the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is included in the agenda. The proposal is the 31st representative of SDP's Club of Representatives. And in accordance with Article 113. The Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure shall immediately maintain that such a proposal is included in the agenda and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we shall discuss and vote in the follow-up of this session, which we shall continue for the next week as a result of the fact that we still have, in a series of draft laws which are assumed to be discussed from those reports to the Law of the SDP Representatives Club: equalising pension income for workers, the Law on Amendments and additions of the Law on political parties to the HSP Club, the Law on Fundamental Education of MPs of Zeljko Pavlic. Amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian Citizenship of Representative Nikola Vuljanić, the Law on Foreigners of the same representative, amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse of the Association of HSP Representatives. Amendments to the law, additions to the law of the family club of HSS MPs, amendments and additions to the Law on the work of MPs Đurđa Adlešić, the Law on Advocates for pensioners and older persons and so on. There are still laws which, apart from this, need to be discussed and the vote on distrusting the Minister of the Economy. Gentlemen and ladies, let's engage to determine the quorum. Thank you. We have a quorum. 89 present. We have a quorum. First, I would like to propose, in accordance with Rule 204 of the Rules of Procedure, the addition of the agenda to one point. It is a proposal for a list of candidates to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of this item on the agenda? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established. Now we're going to, we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81595	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Prime Minister, members of the government. My question was addressed to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which in December published a list of accepted scientific projects for which 14.2.5 million were planned in 2007. Although strict selection and increasing scientific work have been announced, the clarity and transparency of scientists warn of irregularities, failures, conflicts of interest and suspicious evaluation criteria. The process of evaluation of scientific projects was burdened by a flagrant conflict of interest, members of judgment groups, so those who evaluated and ranked projects are also leaders accepted for the financing of projects. The review on the basis of which the projects were approved was done in principle to you, because the projects were literally given to all the members of the commission and the people around them. How to obtain interaction between science and the economy and increase exports if such projects are not recognised and funded? Sugar tail. All day in Parliament, we have claimed that it is a culture in warfare without which peasants and sugarcanes will fail. Sugar, the most significant export product, is planned by the EU as the basis of bioethanol production. At the same time, the panel of professors of the same department declares incompetent and insufficiently professional although behind it is a multi-year selection work with more recognised in the practice of applied cultivators that are now at 50% of the surface. How is this not the only example of the minister asking how do you intend to correct the damage caused by these long-term projects of double-delivered exports because seeds were exported and sugar exported and what will you do against those for whom it is more than obvious that they are in conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81596	Thank you. Minister Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81597	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will answer you as well as the scientist himself very clearly and I think that after this, it will be clear to the MPs all about scientific projects in the Republic of Croatia. This is the first time since Croatia's independence that scientific projects and reviews are separate from politics. As the first minister who has not participated in the work of any body, no decision has been made, nor has a member of the State, State Secretary or Assistant participated in project reviews. What Croatia has done, it has done what the European Union has asked of it, and that is the judgment groups that are completely independent of any structure, especially from the ministry that was formed I would say through six scientific councils are scientists independent of the Republic of Croatia by the criteria set by the National Council, meaning the parliamentary body, the National Council for Science. So the ministry only served as a service by conducting a procedure that is exactly the same as the procedures conducted in any country of Western democracy. What happened? One of the key problems and perhaps the greatest advances in Croatian science, which almost reached 30% of the number of projects rejected. During the review, last review had a transit of almost 90%, which was one of the biggest objections to the entire scientific community in the Republic of Croatia. So now we have managed to lower our passability and reject almost 30% of the projects that put Croatia at about 70%, but we need to go on about 10% more if we want to be around as some members of the European Union. What is extremely important is to say that neither the ministry nor any of us can participate in the reviews. About 2002, when the first major review of scientific projects was made, most of the scientific projects had one review. Now each project had at least two reviews, and about 30 to 40% of all three reviews. What has made such a great selectivity, which has given a great headache to Croatian scientists is the inclusion of 30% of foreign rezents of Americans, Canadians, Israelis, Germans who, of course, are stronger, more selective and have rejected what is not according to world standards. If it happened that someone from the verdict group was a self-respector and I gave myself a project he would respond to. We're looking for it now, and we haven't been able to find a single case that someone did their own review. And now the key question is what to do with the best scientists in Croatia? Can they sit in judgmental groups? If they will not sit in judgment groups, it means that some others who are worse than them will sit down and decide on the fates of Croatian science. However, another question is being asked here. You have Nobel laureates sitting in judgmental groups in America, but they don't decide their own projects. So it was in Croatia and we do an internal one, because of course people who are unhappy are part of them who did not pass the scientific project and they do not point their arrows towards the ministry because they know that the ministry did not participate in the reviews, but regardless of what we did internally, I would say one evaluation, and if it is found that anyone was, means not from the ministry but from the judgment groups that are members of Croatian universities or academic community, it will be responsible for that. Here, that's my answer to your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81598	Dear representative Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81599	Minister, thank you very much, but I don't think that the presidents and members of the judgment groups should be the bearers of the program. In addition, mistakes were made to seek programme candidacy, and then individual projects were drawn out of these programmes and indeed should be taken into account. I do not claim that the ministry is wrong, that we really do separate it and that the reviews are respected and that it takes care of who the reviewers are because I have papers where the foreign reviewers gave the rejection, but nevertheless these projects have passed in Croatia because then a domestic review was sought, a rapid review that gave the passing to such projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81600	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81601	I thank Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Dear Minister, it is known that the courts in Croatia are in relatively poor shape to ask you, or what does it look like that courts can work in more conditional areas than they do now? I'm particularly interested and in the full restoration of Vukovar until it comes with the restoration of the court there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81602	Minister Lovrin!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81603	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Representative! Of course, one of the main jobs of the Ministry of Justice is to provide material conditions for the work of courts and state lawyers. Of course, the needs for the construction of the courts are great and that the construction of the courts and the provision of material conditions is carried out in accordance with the possibilities of the budget. In particular, there are strong needs to build and strengthen the installations of courts in view of the strong and strong information of the courts that this government and this ministry supports because information contributes to the effectiveness of the work of the judiciary and the transparency of the work of the judiciary. And we know that efficiency and transparency and information are one of the main tools I would say in the anti-corruption fight or in the prevention of corruption. Of course, the building itself in the building sense in the 2007 budget envisions the arrangement of the Square of Justice in Split and the restoration, a thorough reconstruction of the Osijek court building. As far as Vukovar is concerned, a court building is under construction in Vukovar. It's a project that's about 27 million kuna. A very demanding project, which was torn down as well as the entire city of Vukovar to the ground in the war. The project protected as a monument of cultural heritage whose restoration was very demanding but I must say with pleasure here that the works are going according to plan and programme and that I expect that in May this year we will all attend the opening of a court building in Vukovar, which the city of Vukovar certainly deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81604	Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81605	Your Honors Minister! I thank you for your response and I am particularly pleased that the completion of the Vukovar court building is near the end because the city symbol Vukovar deserves also a representative state institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81606	Thank you. Honorable representative Irena Ahel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81607	I would like to thank Mr. President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Minister. I refer my question to the vice-presidents of the government and the secretary of the defence family and the intergenerational solidarity of Mrs. Kosor. You recently spoke to the public about the rights of Croatian defenders to repay the debt. However, here I have to tell the defenders of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County that what the media said about it was not said enough, that it was not defined, that it was not sufficiently clearly transmitted, so here I would like to ask you, in their name, whether this year will start with the translation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences? Also announced is the return of the Croatian defenders' debt to the 2001 law, so I ask you how long has it arrived? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81608	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81609	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Representative! I'll start with a direct answer to your question. Therefore, the harmonisation of what we call translation according to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, therefore, the translation of the law which entered into force on 1 January 2005 begins this year, more precisely in the month of May. So, all within the legal time limit. Since the law prescribes that this translation must be done within 3 years. So this year, funds are provided for it and translation will be carried out as I said in May this year. As regards the repayment of the debt under the 2001 law Because of the failure to comply with the provisions of that law, you know that we have also shared in agreement with the defenders the repayment of that debt for a few years. Last year, it also secured 187m kuna in the family ministry's budget, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. And I repeat, according to the 2001 law for 2003 and the beginning of 2004, while the law was still in force, we will do it in two parts this year. So one part in the first term, the second part in the second. All of course in agreement with the Ministry of Finance. Otherwise, for pension and disability pensions or family pensions, funding amounting to €3 billion 622 million was provided this year. This includes, of course, all those obligations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the Agreement on the care of members of the HVO, persons with disabilities, or family, of the agreement we signed with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, for all these rights, and for all these obligations, the Government and the Ministry are provided with funds and all will be implemented within the time limit laid down in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81610	Thank you. Representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81611	I thank you for a very clear answer, and I believe that all defenders will be pleased with that answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81612	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81613	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to refer the issue to the Minister of the Ministry of Environment Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, Ms. Marina Matulović-Dropulić. Dear Madam Minister, there has been talk of air quality in some parts of Croatia in public lately. I'm interested in the Osijek area where due to air measurements, citizens' interest in the air quality they breathe. Can you tell me anything about these measurements and what all your ministry is doing to protect the air in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81614	Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81615	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I must say that citizens' interest in environmental protection and air quality is also growing from day to day in proportion to the measures taken in our government. The fact is that our ministry measures the quality of air at eight measurement stations it is set up in Croatia but it is also true that we are also monitoring the measurements in 130 other places in Croatia. We, through the PHARE programme by the end of 2008, intend to build 14 more of these measurement stations and these measurement stations will be built in both cities and national parks and nature parks, as well as the end of major potential pollutants. What is important to say is that we have passed the Law on Air Protection, that we have brought 13 sublegal acts, which regulations, and that the European Commission's 2006 report has made significant progress and has clearly been reported as far as air quality is concerned in Croatia. Therefore, we also agreed on all the directives that we had to resolve and comply with European rules and therefore, because of these adopted under-legal acts, we began measuring the floating particles up to 10 microns in 2006. This is now the first time in Croatia because, of course, it has been done in Europe and we have now agreed with these regulations and it is happening now, so it is measured at a measured station in Osijek. It's about the dust that we breathe and that appears on all measurement stations during certain annual periods. So it's about when it's been dry for a long time, when it's a big car concentration because all of our measurement stations are located in the most sensitive places in certain cities. So it happens that when it hasn't been raining for a long time, when the dust gathers on the roads or on the sidewalks of traffic, such things happen. So it happened in Osijek, but it only happened in certain periods. There's nothing else but simply stick to it when we have dry months we have to wash the streets, we have to stick to cleanliness and that's the only way to prevent these floating particles up to 10 microns. There are no other pollutions as far as Osijek is concerned. Our biggest problem today is in Sisak. We all know that, and it's been going on for a while. We have taken a lot of action in the course of three years but it is clear that not everything can be solved from today until tomorrow and if it will be included in Mr. Pecek's agenda request we will prepare a full report. There's a lot of work going on in the Sisak area, but, of course, it takes some time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81616	Thank you. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81617	Thank you, Madam Minister. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81618	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81619	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll ask the Prime Minister. Mr. President, a long time ago we concluded that the return of property that was on temporary use was more or less resolved even though there were delays we hoped would be resolved quickly. This has not happened because of reasons that are unacceptable and because of the support in institutions that I am ultimately asking this question. I'll give three, four examples for illustration. In the diocese, a man named Cvetak will not enter his new house asking for water to join him, and there is no water supply in the village, nor will it be built in due time. In Smilčić two people Blažević and Trtak will not go to their house because they have a fight with their wife, the other does not pay for electricity, is not connected to him because he does not pay for electricity here either. In Lower Stubica, a man comes out of the house. He's been waiting for months for the house. Considering I'm saying that he can't do it without support, I'm asking how long in such sensitive matters will the bastards be a law with the support of institutions or individuals from these institutions?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81620	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81621	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! You said well at the beginning of your question that we had settled it a long time ago. We are. The issue of property, ownership is unquestionable. It's constitutionally guaranteed. Croatia is a democratic legal state that respects and applies it in practice. These few cases that you have listed to me are not familiar, so I would ask you, given that you belong to the parliamentary majority, that according to our previous practice through the channels that it is working through, and that means the Ministry of Minister Calmeta, if you need somewhere to legally react to Mrs. Lovrin in accordance with our previous practice, which has worked well, we are solving these problems of people. I'll say here, if you used this current clock to question the government's views again, then I'll make it very clear. The rule of law must be respected and if someone has a solution to the question here and for some personal reasons you said, I didn't realize, with a woman or no water, etc. We won't tolerate it. But I'm asking you not to tell me in your current class what you're entitled to, but according to our practice, to guide us, to bring examples that don't work, and we'll sort it out. Therefore, once again absolute private property is unquestionable and any private property, regardless of which is to be respected, will be respected by the institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81622	Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81623	I understand, Mr. President, your suggestion, but I thought this deserved a public question because of the insufferable blackmails that occur and for the support of such blackmails.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81624	Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81625	I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. When you took over the minister's office, then you appointed as your assistants the people who had a criminal record. You knew about it, but only when the thing came out in public did you decide to replace those people. Some time ago in this house, you were warned by representatives of the SDP that you were passing a law that was not in accordance with the Constitution, which is therefore against the constitution. You've been wrong about that. You've passed the law. After that, the Constitutional Court told you that the law was anti-constitutional. And now, in the end, we have a story with Mrs. Brick. You obviously ordered her to request the anti-zoonical treatment of part of the association, and then you replaced her after the public pressure. It's a question of how long Mrs. Kosor will pay for your mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81626	Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81627	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President! Madam MPs, here's how you asked the question. As for the assistants who were appointed at the beginning of my term or mandate, you know that they were 5.6 days in office. As soon as we found out, or as soon as I found out, of course they were removed. As far as the question of the Law is concerned, the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has been proposed by the Government and adopted by the Croatian Parliament. So it's completely incorrect of course that what you're saying is that I brought it because it's absolutely in a democratic society still impossible for one person to pass the law. Therefore, but you also know well that all that time there was no objection to... children of volunteers, children of Croatian wartime wartime disabled and children of killed, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders. [[The speech room is off, it doesn't understand.]] I remind you, there were no objections from the academic community. You're as much as I remember when I voted on this law coming out of the hall and you didn't want to be in or out. I therefore think that to complain about something most in the Croatian Parliament have now declared is absolutely declassified. So you didn't even want to raise your hand to support the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences but to go outside. But of course it's your right. I remind you that in the Law that you passed in 2001 against which HDZ was fiercely a provision on enrolment, this same enrolment of children of Croatian wartime disabled children, children of the dead, prisoners and missing Croatian defenders who were transferred from the previous law. But then no one filed constitutional charges. As for the problem of enrolling and helping the children of the defenders, I want to inform you, I believe that this will be a great joy for you to have us solve the problem. Despite the Constitutional Court's decision, which we must respect, of course, we are agreeing on possible modalities to help these children. I believe it will make you very happy that we have awarded the first scholarships, about 3,000 of them these days. You must have very, very supportive of this, and we will continue to do so because we believe that children of Croatian volunteers, children of the dead, prisoners and missing Croatian defenders and children of the disabled deserve all the support of the Croatian state because their parents are the most responsible for free, independent, independent, democratic and European Croatia where you are sitting in this Parliament because if they were not here today, they would not have discussed it. And that is the position of the Croatian government. And still the position of the majority in this House. I hope it'll be most of it still and we'll get back to work. As for Mrs. Zigelj, I didn't know about her security clearance order for members of the Civil Society Development Council. I learned about it on Wednesday afternoon last week and I have come to the conclusion because in a democratic and civilised society it is unacceptable to check the representatives of civil society, associations of HVIDRA, from HVIDRA representatives to representatives of the Association for the Protection of Human Rights of Women. It's inadmissible for me. It's scandalous for me. I reacted the same second. I reacted the other day. I will always react because you allow it to be inadmissible and it is very clear in the Regulation to investigate or verify people in this way since it clearly states who can be verified under this Regulation? The members of the association certainly don't. The position of the Croatian government, this government, is that it must cultivate an honest partnership with associations regardless of what they have dealt with and the protection of whose rights and rights they have dealt with. This has been so since the beginning, and certainly one such incident cannot violate the fundamental principles of this government. In addition to everything, I would like to remind you that, just in the 2005 Parliament, there have been great questions, great pressures from associations, as well as representatives for the shift of Mrs. Zigelj, who publicly stated in an interview that most associations in Croatia are ashamed. That they're most high-end traitors. It's unacceptable for us. Of course, there have been a lot of other work gaps, but now this isn't the place to talk about. So on your question, ma'am, no, I didn't know about the checks. No, I didn't order them. That's a lie. There are documents. There's a memo from her to the intelligence community that clearly shows that she signed it. So it's the only truth. And, of course, I don't want to discuss anything else anymore or bring that debate to a personal level. For us associations are partners Mrs Opačić Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81628	Representative Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81629	Madam Vice President and Minister, I must tell you that the fact and the truth is that you have placed part of the Secret Service in office of dealing with political opponents. For months now, Mrs. Kosor, these people have been snooping around our lives to tell the truth about us and political accounts. The smaller problem is, the smaller the problem is that we're part of such shops. [[The intruders don't understand.]] It's a lot bigger. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81630	I know, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81631	So it's much less a problem that we're the subject of such actions. It's a much bigger problem. Mrs. Kosor, whatever you say here last night's "Open" vote has shown that the people no longer trust you. [[Intruder: These times have passed, thank God.]] [[The speech room is off, it doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81632	Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81633	Thank you very much, Mr. Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, you recently highlighted the transparency of public finances in one of your interviews last week as one of your government's greatest successes. After that, unfortunately, the purchase of vehicles and clothing in the MUP has declared your government a state secret, but it probably does not fall under the transparency of public finances. However, my question concerns why you keep the report secret in front of the Croatian public, or the results of the European Social Rights Committee report, which is disastrous for Croatia. This is the worst, according to this report, Croatia is the worst-rated state of all signatories of the European Social Charter, and except that the delivery of data to the Council of Europe has been delayed for 8 months from the report, Croatia's non-compliance is visible both in the legislation and in practice with the provisions of the European Social Charter, especially those of the European Social Charter relating to labour rights, the right to fair working conditions, the right to fair pay, the right to workers to protection. The right to professional guidance and some other rights that are a little less, less graded. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81634	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81635	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Representative, I would ask you to introduce us to this document because we do not know this document in the Government and we do not know why we would and in order to keep it from the Croatian public the document of a European body. Let's imagine a European body issuing some kind of document. How the government can keep it from the public when neither its nor its government has the right to distribute or comment. I personally haven't seen him, and the biggest contradiction that we've been keeping from the public is that you have him.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81636	Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81637	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister, for declaring me a Croatian public. But the report you're reporting I'll inform you, your government that you received the report two months ago. It is in the form of though I can give it to you in English text. You may not have been able to translate it for two months and put it on websites or anywhere else because it is an obligation, because it is your obligation as a Government to submit a report and that that report, which the European Commission, or the European Social Rights Committee, has brought to the public. It is, yes, ha will not translate it into Croatian Mr. Prime Minister, the European Union. However, in any case, your Government is unfortunately Mr. President, except that you do not know that you have received such a disastrous assessment of the actual Croatian harmonisation of the legislative and otherwise known for the urgency of introducing European standards which are at the expense of Croatian citizens, but those European criteria such as those of the Social Charter, the European Social Charter, that you are not so up-to-date that these rules and those standards of the European Union are applied as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81638	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81639	Thank you, Mr. President. We have a question for the Minister of Science. From the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports over the past years, we have had the opportunity to hear that this government inherited debts in the system of education that amounted to several hundred million kunas. The first debt was due to the payment of the 2001 regress for employees of the secondary school system. The second was the payment of shift work for primary and secondary school employees for 2002, and the third was the payment of 50% of the increased salary for primary and secondary school employees in Croatia's Podunavlje under the provisions of Article 19. Laws on areas of special state concern. According to the information available, this government has almost fully settled these debts. However, the issue of new debts to employees at Croatian universities is now being raised, and it is Christmas Eve for 2001. This debt is estimated at an amount of between 80 million and 140 million kuna. We ask whether the government, or the resolution ministry, will pay off that debt during this year and whether the funds are secured and in what way through the loan or something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81640	Minister Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81641	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, you're right! That's right. We inherited a billion and 200 million kunas in total vertical education mostly Christmases, shift work, regressions, and you were right to pay back almost 600 million kuna. When I say 600 million kuna, then through a deal with social partners, teachers and professors, we managed to save it because people gave up heavy interest, and we paid about 380 million kuna in total. So it's a question of primary and secondary education with great pains. But of course, it took a reduction of some other programs. But the issue of higher education and the question of science is a debt to our information somewhere around 140 million kunas for higher education and science somewhere around 61 million kunas and it is related to Christmases from 2000 and 2001. The question is, how are we going to solve this debt? We provided a part of the budget that could cover a small part of the debt because by treating different universities, colleges were different. Some colleges and universities paid for it before they started the lawsuits so that the amounts were significantly smaller but unfortunately a large number of colleges were launched naturally by their employees of the lawsuit and we are now starting to pay off where it is most urgent. But of course we're going to have to get support, because you have to agree to start with the first day of the term of office in such a large ministry with a billion and 200 million kunas of debt. It's at least a risk because it was a complete blockade if you want a judicial system. Because there were 40,000 lawsuits and, of course, this debt. I expect that by the end of this year we will solve all questions at all Croatian universities and work very closely with the rectors and deans.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81642	Thank you. What is really very important is that this segment of education and education has also tried to catch a rhythm with some other segments such as the judiciary and health care, because we can hardly really talk about modern and European Croatia if this segment is underrated, as unfortunately these 15 years have yet to admit certain lags. And here, we commend these efforts to catch that rhythm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81643	Dear Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81644	I ask the question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Damir Polancec. Dear Mr. Vice-President, there is still a number of enterprises not privatised to the end, and in the latest data on the Croatian Privatisation Fund's portfolio there are still shares of around 800 companies. Croatian citizens, as well as co-owners of those companies in which the state is co-owner, also the administration, and especially the attention workers follow what is happening and when their company should come to the order for privatisation. Given your announcement of the new Law on Privatisation, and in particular the regulation of the issues of working stock, my question is when can we expect the new Law on Privatisation to be sent to the Croatian Parliament, which it brings to workers and in general to Croatia and how privatisation is taking place today.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81645	Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81646	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Well, as you yourself said, we still have about 800 companies in the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, i.e. about the so-called "Privatisation Fund". the combined national portfolio. If we know that we're going to privatize with a little over 3,000 companies out of this, it turns out we still have enough work to do on the privatisation. But privatisation today or privatisation a few years ago or privatisation ten years ago is completely different, it's much more transparent than before. The new Privatisation Act will make it even more transparent. He'll have several major segments. In the first part, therefore, we will define the portfolio of the Privatisation Fund, i.e. the so-called “Privatisation Fund”. a united government portfolio. We'll also sort out other forms and ways of selling shares. But what is particularly important, especially or most important, in this law will be a chapter treated by organised stockholders. What is the objective of organised stockholdering? First of all, give the possibility that those who created the companies, those who care most about the development of these companies, can also participate in making key decisions in these companies. Workers will be able to organise themselves, will be able to start their company with minimum founding capital and that company will be able to buy shares from the Privatisation Fund up to 25% of the total portfolio and with a 40% discount. For a minimum of 5 years, a time is foreseen in which these shares will not be sold to third parties. In this way, workers will engage differently, more organisedly in the management of supervisory committees and, of course, in the process of making key decisions in their companies. Since at first I said that privatisation today takes place on completely different principles than it used to be. Let me remind all of us together that all our tenders are completely public, are published in all the daily papers, that offers in public tenders are opened in the presence of the media and in the presence of a public notary who notes and records whether the offers are in line with the tenders. Let me remind all of us together that the meetings of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund are also open. So these sessions are attended by media representatives and listen to the debates and elaborates of all those who take part in the sessions. And let me remind you once again that the Management Board will be changed. That right on the initiative of the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister of our Government, then one seat on the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund was offered to the trade unions. The union centres of these days determine who it will be and one union representative will sit with us on the Management Board and thus our social partners will gain even more importance and will have the opportunity to participate in the process of making key decisions. Next week we refer the new Privatisation Act to the Economic and Social Council for discussion with our economic and social partners. After we've installed their remarks, and I believe there won't be too many because the law has been prepared in close cooperation with them. The law goes into government procedure. And according to my personal assessment, they'll be in Parliament in about 20 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81647	Thank you. Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81648	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. Given the importance of privatisation, because it is one of the topics that is extremely interested in Croatian citizens, and unfortunately for the negative connotations it carries from past times I hope that this law will really come into the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible and will allow for clear and transparent privatisation. I'd just like to remind you that this government has had some great privatisations, from INA, BELJE, PICK Vrbovac. And this law should bring more success stories. It is particularly important to me as a representative of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County what the situation with ZDENKA and CAZMATRANS is. And on the state of their privatisation, I'd like to ask a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81649	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81650	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm giving the question to you. '98. the year of the "Dubrovnika Banka" affair was shaking the Croatian public. At the time, it was known who the 5th mate was, but today you don't know where the new ones are from the Dubrovnik Bank. It's 2007, but it's like everything's the same. And the model, or the pattern, is repeated, but in this case on the "Brodosplet" affair. This "Brodosplit" affair has shaken the Croatian public for over a year, and there are no serious results of the investigation in this case. So far, the most information we could hear from the Austrian police, not the Austrian police. We've learned from the media that in this affair already, there are already four partners in this affair, three are famous, and four are speculated that it's high-ranking in power. I remind you that the investigation takes a year, and the real results of the Croatian police are gone. And out of the papers are the dudes after each other, all appointed by this government. I'm surprised that the government that is so determined to fight corruption that it doesn't mind that the investigation in this affair is taking so long, it's suspected of money laundering, which is what some political people are involved in. And now I wonder if the results of the investigation will be known until the parliamentary elections. That's what I'm asking myself. And I'm asking you, Mr. Prime Minister, do you know who this fourth partner is, and he's supposed to be high-ranking in the Croatian government?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81651	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81652	Well, it's probably not like you don't know who the 4th mate is or who the 5th partner is, because you've been a partner, and it was your job while you were Minister of Justice. It's one of the tasks in your portfolio. And I'm very interested in how by yesterday, when you were acting on that high duty, you knew nothing, and now all of a sudden you know everything and you're asking such beautiful rhetorical questions that the Croatian public is laughing at. Because both you and I and the entire Croatian public know that the investigation needs to be completed and that we are all waiting not only in this case, but also in the case before it was in the Split bootlegger case in the case of Victor Lenca, in the case of the sale of Excelsior, in the case of anything else that you should have done as a minister, and not.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81653	Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81654	You have a weak answer, Mr. Prime Minister. The Minister of Justice doesn't conduct investigations. He's being conducted by the police, the State's Attorney's office. And to you, Mr. President, who is headed by the executive authority, you are the chief of police, it must be important that the results of the investigation be published as soon as possible. Unfortunately, this is how switching and giving this kind of answer leads me to doubt. And I'm asking myself again if you're not hiding your fourth mates. In fact, don't be angry, but with all these watches you have, unfortunately you don't know how many hours there are when it comes to clearing up corruption in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81655	Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81656	Almost all countries in the world are facing an ever-increasing threat posed by one of the most violent forms of crime, which is human trafficking. That's why I'm asking my question to the Home Secretary, Mr. Kirin. Mr. Ministers how to implement the National Programme for the Prevention of Trade in People of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and belonging to the operational plan. What exactly are you doing fighting this type of crime?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81657	Minister Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81658	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. Dear Representative Mr. Culjak, the Republic of Croatia today boasts that it has a complete and effective system to combat human trafficking. This is seen by this and the last activities that are being carried out, and above all I must say that the National Committee for the Control of Trade of People, headed by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, is responsible for social activities and human rights and is appointed as the National Coordinator, so it is the head of the Office for Human Rights of the Republic of Croatia and what is most important, an operational team has been formed to combat human trafficking. What is important in this operational team, which, of course, is the most involved by the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the members of the task force are required for 24 hours to be prepared to coordinate the taking of concrete activities in each individual case of identification, victims of human trafficking and the provision of assistance and protection. In order to implement the National Programme for the Prevention of Trade in Human beings and its related operational plans, the MUP of the Republic of Croatia has developed an implementation plan aimed at intensifying measures and actions to prevent and intensifies cooperation with NGOs from the Republic of Croatia, the Red Cross, Rosa from Zagreb, the Organisation for Integrity and Sperence Split, the Karlovac Association, Vukovar Women's Association and others, in order to obtain as high as possible information from the field and to act primarily preventively and thus show itself in the right light, and what is the most important thing itself is the results of processing and criminal processing of certain cases of human trafficking, says that the Republic of Croatia, as far as this is concerned, is not only very high than this part of the region, but also the European Community in the number of criminal offences reported. We have to say that by 2002 52 victims of human trafficking have been identified so far, with six crimes discovered and reported in this year alone. What is important very much, the Ministry of the Interior regularly conducts specialized training of police officers for three years and so far has been trained 26 police officers who have been deployed in certain parts of the ministry to deal with this problem. Of course, what is very important and as far as national legislation is concerned, in that part, we have fully agreed with the EU legislation, thus fulfilling all the obligations outlined. The numerous activities highlighted the recent project of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia of the International Migration Organisation, which was implemented from 15th to 17th January 2007 in Vodice, titled "Intensification of police cooperation and the State's Attorney's Office with NGOs in the field of identifying victims of human trafficking and providing assistance and protection". Of course for 2007 that you can now get here in writing that I do not specify all the operational measures prepared by the Ministry of Interior, in order to prevent this monster that is still present in our areas, but I must say first of all because Croatia is a transition country, which we have relatively large borders that are now at the closing stage of these borders and controls actually people, passing goods and trade so often happens that... The Republic of Croatia is still committing illegal human migration for the purpose of its trade through organised crime. So I can say in the end as a conclusion, that the Croatian police are doing their good work further, that they are not subject to various pressures, but that they are working in accordance with the criminal profession and that they will be in this and in all other parts of the fight against organised and economic crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81659	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81660	Mr. Minister, I am pleased that the Croatian employee has also been involved in the repression of human trafficking and that it contributes to the fight against this form of crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81661	Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81662	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, members of the government. I have a question for Minister Ljubicic. Minister Ljubicic, Minister Primorac first freaked out and then messed up despite all... Despite all the instruments, despite all the requirements he had for more than two years in his hands, the content of sexual education in schools has not yet been adopted. [[You don't understand.]] In short, let's cut the story short. Over two years, Minister Primorac was involved and involved until he got completely involved and eventually transferred the problem to you and said he would respect your every decision. Well, now I'm interested in the Honorable Minister of Health, what will be your decision. If you accept the opinion of the Ombudsman for children that the programme of sexual education must comply with the standards of respect and protection of human rights of gender equality and the suppression of all kinds of discrimination and homophobia. Because if you accept these attitudes, what you will do in the case of the "Gross" programme, which also contains the attitudes completely contrary to those principles, the attitudes of opposite science, but also of the Croatian Constitution, and I will dare add to my common sense. There, for example, children want to learn by this program that sex is acceptable only in marriage and only for reproduction, and contraceptives are careful, declaring the opposite nature of sexual acts. I agree that some may become engrossed in family pastorals and lofty values, but this approach completely denies the everyday life of young people in Croatia. The average gender rate in Croatia today is 17 years, the average age of marriage is 26 years. 15 to 18% of sexually active female students are infected with chlamydia and 10 to 12% with HPV. So I ask you and ask you personally, if you want professional opinion as a doctor who you certainly have about the programme itself from the point of view of special public health and just please do not answer me that you have formed a committee, or that you do not have a personal opinion because you have a commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81663	Minister Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81664	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'm going to say that Minister Primorac has done a great job as well as the public has assessed, a very demanding job but unrelated to sexual education, because here we are talking about health care. I have to admit, as a health minister, I'm not actually going to look back on sexual education, so we're going to let some of the others do this kind of jargon actually work. Health care is a very broad term. He teaches children how to wash their hands, actually teach children the first knowledge of his "I", about his health, learning and healthy diet and similar things, not sexual education. And I think actually the question went absolutely wrong. Obviously, the subject was misunderstood. The second thing I want to make clear, so, say, this problem has to be in the hands of the waist. We have got a clear and beautiful background on which you will actually, nicely say, professional people, and these are people who, therefore, are created from the portfolio of school medicine, child psychologists, all so profiles that will participate, ultimately evaluate it and, of course, bring one final judgment on everything together. So let's let go of sexual education and practice health care, and let's not change these other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81665	Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81666	Minister, I did not expect the Minister of Health in the Croatian Government and especially the doctor to deny such aspects of the epidemic of sexually transmitted diseases in young people in Croatia. I thought I didn't hear well when you told me that you wouldn't look back on sexual education and at least I hoped for the Minister of Health in the Croatian Government who was in charge of public health in this country that they would get carried away as some religious fanatics together with family pastorals and high values. I ask you a written answer to the question of who will be responsible in this country for increasing significantly sexually transmitted diseases in Croatia, i.e. for these new public health problems, i.e. for significantly increased infertility as a result of untreated chlamydia and HPV infections.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81667	It's a written answer. Dear representative Ivana Sučec Trakostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81668	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here, Mr. Secretary of State will answer me. We all know, therefore, that during this period that is ahead of us, we have intensified negotiations with the European Union, that we are going intensively to comply with all Croatian rules and that some chapters are open and closed. That there will be an intense opening of a new one. I wonder, do you expect that some of them may be in difficulty and that there might be something in that part that might bring us closer to what we have not heard in the House so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81669	State Secretary Hido Bištević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81670	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. I am glad that I am able to answer this question because it is actually affecting the core of the current activities, not only of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, but of the de facto negotiating team, and therefore behind it and all of the government's resolutions. That the negotiations are difficult, the negotiations are complex, the negotiations are difficult and the fact that I try to be, in the shortest lines, the negotiations are also difficult by the fact that Croatia today is a country that negotiates in a different way than when it was negotiated in the last round of enlargement, that some new negotiating conditions have been set. But also, on the part of the European Union, some new experiences have been gained in the negotiations so far, which I say in quotes are now being applied to Croatia. It's hard to say that these or those chapters are more demanding. They're all equally demanding, all looking for our full activity to ensure both the quality and speed of the negotiations. What is important to say in front of this House, negotiations require full and active coordination and governmental resolutions and all the institutions of our country. The greatest difficulties and the greatest attention we will have to pay to see in those chapters where, because of the situation in the individual powers of Croatian society, Croatia's economy will have to look for the largest and longest transitional periods. I think it's already known to the public that it's actually about chapters to simply say, which are being touched in the areas of agriculture, the environment, the judiciary, traffic and transport policies. This is about 5 or 6 chapters in which attention will be needed in order to ensure the best possible transition periods. Finally another sentence, two more. To conduct negotiations in a way that ensures both quality and speed is needed, I repeat, the greater and the more active coordination of all the institutions of the state, and I would dare say, as little foreigning and politics as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81671	Thank you. Representative Ivana Sučec Trakoštanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81672	Thank you. I am pleased with the answer and I expect, of course, from all those responsible so far, that protecting Croatian national and economic interests will adapt to European gains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81673	Dear Representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81674	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. President, during January of this year in Sisak, the measured concentration of carcinogenic gasoline in the air is 2 and a half times that allowed. At the same time, the amount of sulfur dioxide jumped from allowed 8 to even 38 units of measurement. For this systematic poisoning of Sisak citizens, the INA refinery is responsible for which it is late to modernise the refinery in Sisak. But the responsibility for systematic poisoning of citizens is borne by the Croatian Government which you are headed. The government has its representative in the INA supervisory board and in the INA shareholders' assembly, and they could warn the INA administration and the refinery itself. In addition, the government and the Ministry of Environmental Protection could have ordered this source of air pollution in Sisak long ago through the Ministry's inspections. So I ask you, what's the reason, Mr. Prime Minister, that you haven't done it so far? Or why you are so irresponsible to the health of the citizens of the city of Sisak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81675	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81676	Mr. President, Mr. Representative. Contrary to your assessment and your question exactly 100% contrary to your qualifications. The government is acting responsibly, and when we heard the first information, we asked for the INA administration's confirmation of everything that's going on. And when you mentioned that the late modernisation of the refinery that will contribute significantly to environmental protection and above all, to quality air and the environment, that is not true. It has been late so far, and this government has just made it possible for the modernisation of the Sisak and Rijeka refineries to be completed in the next few years. The deadlines are respected, all the shops that go into modernization are respected. Therefore, I absolutely and resolutely reject your qualifications at the expense of the Government, because the Government of this one is all its activities to protect the environment in Croatia, to preserve space, to introduce order, because we are all responsible for space, we are all responsible for environmental protection, and this has also been shown by the recent elections in Rogoznica where so-called. The list of lawless builders suffered defeat, and the party leading the government won an absolute majority of mandates. So I'm asking you to ask those people down at Rogoznica why they voted for this government if not because this particular government best protects the environment, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81677	Representative Pejo Trječević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81678	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm not here to answer your questions, but you and the citizens I asked about, and I'm only going to tell you one thing about this case, which is that over the last 10 years in Sisak City, 10 times as many people have been suffering from various cancers. The forecasts are if in the next 10 years nothing is done about air pollution there will be a flood of the population in the City of Sisak and I have asked you for reasons of concern, and the government has the instruments to make this problem in the City of Sisak resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81679	Honorable representative of Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81680	Mr. President, I'm referring the question to Mr. Kirin, Minister of the Interior. I quote: "Lords you do not love Croatia, you never loved it.", the end of the quote. That's what you told the ministers who wrote about a New Year's fight involving the son of our fellow parliamentary representative, Mr. Josip Djakic. At the same time, there's a lot going on in your vault. In one of the most recent cases, the Ministry of the Interior declares spending taxpayers' money to be official secret. That's exactly how you got four interceptors and six more eyewitnesses. That's how you got 65 motorcycles. The same principle provides information equipment in the MUP, but also jackets. On the other hand, in last year's car accidents in Croatia, 613 people died more than a year earlier. The number of fatal accidents increased by as much as 21% and the deaths was almost 3% higher. It particularly hurts that as many as 23 people died and 26% more young drivers were injured than a year earlier, and on your proposal, the government suspended legal provisions on the protection of young drivers on 27 December 2006. Mr. Minister, if writing journalists is proof that they do not like Croatia, I ask you, is the opacity in spending taxpayers' money and care for young drivers' lives perhaps the right way to show respect for the public and love for Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81681	Minister Ivica Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81682	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Representative and Mayor of Velika Gorica, and I'm glad you've opened this issue. First, when I said and said, I said in one context, and apparently you like to read only contexts. And you've had a few statements about journalists in your term as I recall, and I said when journalists write that Minister Kirin or the police minister protects the local gang, it's being transferred to the foreign media and you can think that it sounds out there while we're fighting together and all the members of the government and all of you together to join the European Union by passing on statements of people who have a record and more criminal applications than I do. That was one question. These same journalists wrote three days before the vote in Pitomaca that in the case of Djakic the people are being terrorised, the people are in fear, taking statements from those who are in the criminal reports of the MUP and no one will deal with what is really a problem in Pitomaca. The elections are coming, and the same people are giving absolute confidence to the list of the Croatian Democratic Community and the list represented by Mr Djakic, and no one is in the paper any more, but it has not finished the story that really happened in Pitomaca. As far as spending money in the MUP is concerned, I'm glad you asked the question. How much do I remember at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs while you were a minister buying protocol clothes for some, etc., and now, and the journalist writes why the Ministry of the Interior says you don't take goods that can be found on the free market? One police interceptor, this car does not matter which brands are equipped with special equipment directly installed in the factory cannot be found on the Croatian market. You also know well, and there is finally a member of your party's former minister as far as our bids have failed that the police ended up with no basic means to work and the simplest and police directorship got involved in the job. Today in public procurement, everyone participates in the MUP, and especially the crime of the police so that we no longer have and ultimately there was an audit finding that you can all see that you see what the financial situation in the ministry itself is like to stop happening, but it has nothing to do with the policy of getting those who, at the end of the competition in public procurement, are twice as expensive as they can be on the free market. About the acquisition and specification of the equipment at the Ministry of the Interior there are legal provisions and believe me that everyone at the Ministry of Interior, not only the minister is the last one who signs that those people under me who work, starting again with notices and members and representatives and crime inspectors are taking part in the purchases just to make sure we got the most quality equipment and I can tell you that in the last year, we saved millions of amounts of what they can document to you, but unfortunately we also documented it, it wasn't very interesting for all the media to pass on what everything was done at the Ministry of the Interior. About the supply itself, it bothered me because we know where the wind blows. People... The job, which has so far been taken from the MUP, of course, is the easiest thing to call and say here's the crime is in the MUP, and in doing so they haven't asked for our testimony, but it's someone else's thing and let someone else deal with it, we'll give all the information to the public that they're interested in and that we can give. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the vehicle safety center and what you're talking about for young people, it's another lack of information on who brought the article. We are in the best interest that young drivers should be further educated in the centres for safe driving passed such a Law, i.e. brought for this reason that additional hours of young drivers on safe-driving polygons would further educate them not to suffer in traffic, but unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia there is not a single centre built, here is the first one before construction, and what would that mean? This would mean that every young candidate's driver must be sent to Zagreb to additionally maintain driving hours, as would largely collect the overall and schooling of the candidates, and this would practically be inexecutable and get a public objection. Of course, we withdrew the regulation for one reason why it was not possible to implement it, and we hope that right through the HAC and through interested entities this year, we will encourage the creation of several centres of safe driving on which, apart from young drivers, those drivers who are often committing violations, and those interested in professional work, will work as professional drivers so that this regulation has been adopted with a goal. I'm sorry you didn't ask us as the Ministry of the Interior and the written question or did you come to me to give you a complete answer as to what's going on? We cannot charge with such insinuations an institution that is currently engaged in organised crime and economic... Economics, to deal with, to have crime in its own ranks. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81683	Representative Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81684	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I am, of course, not pleased with your answer, as I believe the vast majority of the Croatian public. However, instead of making some inquiries clear, I think you've introduced an additional mix-up. But this is also an opportunity, of course, that if the public is not well informed for any reason by writing journalists, it is very clear to answer the question asked which unfortunately did not happen at this time. Let me just say that by 2000 in the Croatian government there were 5 particularly protected ministries over whose work the Croatian public almost had no insight. And after 2000, all these ministries became like everyone else, which means the public has the right to know what's going on. And otherwise, I end my comment, the job of you and your government is to work on the safety of the public, not to be critical of those who are also involved in critical examinations of your work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81685	Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81686	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister with members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. My question is Home Secretary to Mr. Hanse Kirin. It reads, Mr. Minister, recently Mr. Tomurad, head of the Zagreb Police Administration, said there are no police officers missing in the City of Zagreb. But it is reportedly a broader problem affecting all of Croatia. How do you plan to solve the problem of the chronic lack of quality educated officers and expect the problem due to the relatively low wages in terms of the weight and responsibility of the jobs done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81687	Minister Kirin!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81688	I thank you for this question. Yes, the question of filling the staff of the Ministry of the Interior is particularly expressed because we still have to deal with the consequences of the meanings that occurred during the Homeland War today and one of the things is that one particular number of employees precisely with a diagnosis of PTSD are now in a phase to go slowly into retirement and resolve their status. By leaving these employees, but also unquality means not selectively filling police personnel, we have come to the conclusion that today, on certain administrations, we have a shortage of people compared to systematicised places, and therefore two years ago we started a police academy where with the requalification of certain structures, people who have completed high school education just started retraining with the goal of getting new cops. And during this year and last year we opened a tender where around 330 new police officers were accepted, and this year, there are now competitions in progress where new 600 trainees are received. The plan is also the reception of about 300 as much as possible, which means the most in the criminal calling structure in order to just step up the fight against all forms of crime and thus give the Croatian police another new impulse and pull those young people away to fight daily the tasks they face. I would like to say that Croatia is now in one phase where, due to its accession to the European Union, we must also prepare for those obligations that the European Union is wearing, and one of them is the Schengen Action Plan and, therefore, a document on integrated border management has been adopted on these days and on the Government, where it is defined what Croatia will do in the next four to five years as regards reception and new police officers and officials who will work to protect the border, because we must point out that the border towards Bosnia and Herzegovina is a thousand and a kilometer and is one of the longest in Europe. We have 980 kilometers so-called. small borders and about 300 more and a few kilometers towards Serbia, a large and demanding task for Croatian police. Of course, by taking the number of people optimally and filling the structures where people are now missing, I must also mention here for the Croatian public that in the Istrian administration, both Dubrovnik-Neretva and Split, people from these areas do not want to go to the police, for the reason that they have more salaries in some catering segment than they would have earned by calling cops. But what we have is very important regardless of wages and the status of police officers often discussed in the Croatian public, there is still a great interest in calling police officers and we have seen this in the last competition where a thousand 750 candidates appeared for 330 seats. And I hope that we will soon make available to personnel resources to fill the police stations at an adequate level. Today, it is very important to say that today's classical police work is done not only by excessive people but by using the best techniques and taking the best experiences means from other countries, and we are doing it effectively today. As far as I am concerned that today's final finding, the Croatian police are today with this number of people who are willing to carry out all these tasks ahead of them and with the plan that we have, which they eventually accepted and the Commission from the European Union, Croatia's police will eventually fulfil everything that has been put before it and in this way we will meet this condition called security and meet those conditions that are put before it for entry into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81689	Thank you. Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81690	Thank you. The fact is that the contests of this statement, Mr. Tomurad, have mostly come and come outside the police circles. The real state that is you have now answered me and I thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81691	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81692	Thank you, Mr. President. He would ask his question to the Prime Minister. So far, I have always asked specific questions and generally received unsatisfactory answers. Today I ask the prime minister a simple question. Mr. Prime Minister, what time is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81693	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81694	It's right on the assembly clock, it's exactly 11 and 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81695	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81696	I'm not satisfied because that assembly clock is mostly known and stopped when it's important that the session lasts and ends in one day. I expected you to inform me about the weather because thanks to your hobby I think we should be far better informed and therefore ask for a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81697	Okay. The written answer to what time it is. Dear representative Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81698	I have a question for Mr. Ljubičić's health minister. A few days ago, I was approached by a acquaintance who had placed her sick father in a Zagreb hospital. She did this because she was asked to bring toilet paper, incontinence diapers, and sufficient amounts of all the medicines she was using for her father's stay in the hospital. In addition, Zagreb hospitals are constantly appealing to patients to help them with different donations. In addition, official data indicate a steady growth of the waiting list. For basic diagnostic tests such as ultrasound, CT or magnet are waiting for months. For a complex cardiovascular procedure, it is unfortunately up to two years. Because of this condition, patients are forced to pay their own money for checks in private offices or to corrupt doctors as it happened in a known case, Šimic, although they pay no small amounts for their health insurance, which guarantee on paper everything they have to pay additionally. Since your government has taken over, patients and 30 kuna taxes are paid every time you are instructed by prescription or instruction. Since recently, chronic patients are no longer able to receive a dose of drugs in two months, which is additionally costing them at least 180 kuna. According to official data, hospital accounts are paid after 200 to 500 days. That means they're half a year late in payments to almost two years. The financing system has become absurd due to the administrative determination of the price of services and underrated labour prices and, as a consequence of all the perceived lack of age and reduction of care of patients. ... The state is alarming and unsustainable, and that's why I'm asking you. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] What measures are you taking to change this state, ensure the normal functioning of hospitals and timely service to patients, and when you will finally pay for nurses who collect you a 30-dollar health hazard a month ago what Mr. Minister promised them more than a year ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81699	Minister Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81700	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! Your Honor, Madam Representative! Allow me before I answer specifically and we need to make it clear to the public that what you said doesn't seem to stand much. That's not true. Let's take the turn. Well, it was your government who cut the wages. Your government was the one who pushed a bunch of young people, professional people to go after bread because they couldn't get a job here. It was you who made huge debts in health care that, of course, we're pulling now and we're gradually returning because it's impossible to round up. You're talking about waiting lists. The first analysis of the waiting list in Croatia was carried out in 2004. Every year we do an analysis of the waiting list and in 2006 we managed to reduce the waiting list almost in all segments. It's true, we didn't make it anywhere. I'll say it. We failed in our hips and failed to resolve it in the field of cardiac surgery. And that is why we are working on introducing two new cardio surgerys in Split and Osijek that will start operating in June of this year, and thus we will reduce the waiting list. As far as debts are concerned, you're your own witnesses, you hear, you read. A billion and a half kuna of our hospital's debts are to the majors. So it was in 2004, so it was in 2005, so it was in 2006, so it will be with an even smaller amount this year. So where'd you get your debts? If we got them in 2004, if today they're the same as they were in 2004 it means we inherited them. From who? From you. But of course I don't want to look into the past, I want to look into the future. What's important, and that's why we're taking a whole series of measures that we call mind spending. For the first time in Croatia, the list of medicines contains all the medicines you can find in Austria, Belgium, France, any country. All medications, here's an example of Herceptin. In the 12th month of last year, the U.S. Agency for Medicinal Products, the FDA, put Herceptin on its list. Croatia will follow, so perhaps here is an exclusive information for you, in a few weeks and Herceptin will be on our list of medicines. Croatia is going modern in trends and it is recognised in the end line and the World Health Organization has placed the Croatian health system between thirty and five of the most prestigious systems in the world in its 2005 yearbook. With us in transition countries, only two countries are still in the group, Slovenia and the Czech Republic, and only eight countries outside Europe. It is therefore a great recognition for Croatia, a great recognition to all those who work in this system and I think it is absolutely inappropriate your words and that is where the system is called for corruption. Of course, that public professional public certainly let him hear it so he can judge you himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81701	Representative Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81702	I'm very sorry, Mr. Minister, that you persistently refuse to face facts and truths in health care. You didn't answer why patients had to bring everything they needed to stay in the hospital. You haven't responded to the facts, and that's that you're waiting longer and longer for the elementary exams. For those of you who follow the state of health, and I don't want to pollemize with you at all, it is clear that hospitals function exclusively because they do not carry out their obligations to all suppliers, not just medicines, but to all suppliers. It just goes over it. However, I did not ask you a question because of these suppliers who, for various reasons and various reasons, remain silent most often because they are commercially valued or simply charge high interest, so it is worth it, but it is not worth it to those who pay for it and these are taxpayers. I asked you a question that you do not want to take because this situation is increasingly threatening both the quality and availability of treatment to those who need it. And these are the facts that you can ignore but which patients who come to the hospital know and know that these words that I said are true and not the words that you said. We've been listening to the same thing for three years... We've been listening to the same story for three years and unfortunately, the situation is getting worse and the debts are getting bigger. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] But your answer points to a hot potato you decided yet together... some future government. [[The speech room is off, it doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81703	Honorable representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81704	A question for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. The issues concerning energy security and the energy future are among the most important political and strategic issues of the modern world, so there are many reasons for it to be in Croatia as well. Croatia's energy future therefore deserves more and more attention from the Croatian public, but unfortunately that is not the case. Fortunately last year's long and cold winter warned of possible energy problems Croatia could face in the long term. At that time, the construction of Pula-Karlovac gas pipeline was almost in complete stasis until the personal president of the government, Dr. Sanader, took over the coordination and supervision of the construction of this important energy infrastructure facility. After that, the fact is that much has changed. Faster gasification of Croatia becomes a reality and an important priority of the Croatian government. In the end of the construction of Pula-Karlovac gas pipeline only a year ago, few people believed because of a series of objective, technical, constructional, but also other problems and very short deadlines. It was a real challenge, as well as a good opportunity to demonstrate the real opportunities and potential of the Croatian economy. Special merits belong to the INAs of Naftaplin and Plinacro. Croatian gas today from the northern Adriatic directly reaches Croatian consumers and not more via Italy and Slovenia. It is certainly the largest energy infrastructure facility that has been built in Croatia for the past few years. Question: Can you say anything more, Mr. Vice-President, about further gasification of Croatia because it is a prerequisite for stronger economic development and growth of the Republic of Croatia as well as for better quality lives of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81705	Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81706	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for your question. Yeah. You're right, energy independence is today the topic of the debate of all national economies. I dare say that one of the key issues of the European Union itself is, at last, the Lisbon Agenda, which is the strategy of the European Union's economic development. It can be nothing more than an issue of debate in Croatia, and it is certain that this government is paying due attention and interest to it. That is why we have also brought a strategy for the gasification of Croatia, and as one of the key projects in this strategy, the completion of the gas pipeline system between Pula and Karlovac was accelerated. Why was it necessary to do that? Today, Croatia is connected to the international, European gas system only through the gas system, through Slovenia, Austria and Slovakia with Russian supply routes and the capacity of this gas system is absolutely too small for the needs of today's Croatia and therefore it was necessary to secure alternative supply routes. In view of the fact that for many years there have been gas exploration and extraction in the northern Adriatic, which are jointly conducted by Croatian and Italian companies through the completion of this pipeline system, we have finally come into the situation that gas from these wells, gas from these gas fields comes to Croatian consumers directly, rather than by a detour through Italy. This, of course, reduces both costs and we have a final price under control. But that's not all. With gasification, we have to keep going. What we're working on right now is the construction of two new underground warehouses. These are around 2 and Benicans who should also greatly help establish Croatia's energy and gas independence. They are also in preparation and are actually doing work to connect Croatia's gas system with Hungarian via Lower Miholjc, which will further increase our energy independence. But that's not enough. We must continue to gasify Croatia and therefore, when we talk about the work in Croatia at this time, it is a priority to the gas system that will link this already mentioned gas system Pula-Karlovac over, from Bosiljeva to Ploč, so we are already on the move, or are already under way to build a new gas system. Regional Self-Government Units or Countys are tasked with building secondary networks and therefore we encourage all mayors once again to call concessions to complete these works. By 2010, the plan is, the goal is, the desire is for the gas to be up to Split and continues towards the plates. Gas today is the cheapest energy. We have an obligation to ensure the possibility of using this energy in every home in Croatia. In parallel with only two, three sentences, we are doing analyses that will show the justification of building a terminal for ingested gas and, of course, which will show an optimal location for building such a terminal. Thanks to such a terminal, Croatia is given an entirely new dimension and a role in the European Union's energy system and especially in the energy and Southeast Europe system. All these activities are ongoing. He's working hard on them. And the very fact that we have completed this Pula-Karlovac pipeline provides Croatia with a more peaceful future for the next few years, the future without the danger of excavation for both citizens and large consumers such as Petrochem or INA. So we are on a good path and we are ensuring Croatia's energy future and independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81707	Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81708	Thank you very much for your response. I'll certainly repeat what I said at the beginning. The energy future of Croatia deserves more and more attention from the Croatian public and for these reasons that you have made clear. Building a single energy European space is an important common task in which the Republic of Croatia contributes significantly. In addition to all this you have highlighted by the Bosiljevo-Split gas pipeline, the construction of a distribution network offers one great opportunity to build a stronger gas thermal power plant that could stabilise the economy of central Dalmatia in the long term. It's TLM. There are problems of power shortages in many other economic facilities, and it is really important to recognise that the overall economic strategy of the energy sector is one of the important segments of the Croatian Government and thank you very much for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81709	Thank you. We're gonna ask one more question and then we're gonna take a break. That's the 20th we finish with the half. Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81710	Your Honor, I would like to ask either the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance. In fact, recently, Switzerland began to return some of the treasures from secret accounts which are different dictators from Nigeria, Chile, etc. Robbed from their native people, and to this day a billion $546 million has been returned to various lands. They've blocked over a billion dollars more of those and funds. Recently, Swiss Foreign Ministry representative Roberto Balzareti noted that banking secrets can be revealed in all those cases where there is a clear suspicion that money is connected to any part that registers the Penal Code. Clearly, it should be pointed out that the return of money cannot occur until the home country from which the money was stolen has reached a final verdict. So the first stage is the country's request for a return. Second, if the Swiss authorities evaluate this as justified there is a freezing then return. My question is, did the Republic of Croatia ask for one dollar back? President Mesic, for example, mentioned $8 billion of money exported from the Republic of Croatia in 2000. I personally think it's an exaggeration, because that would suit two war budgets. But that a lot of hundreds of millions of dollars was taken out of this money was based on the conversion, it was based on money laundering higher than the purchase of weapons, shipbuilding, etc. There's no question about that at all. So, did a single Croatian government ask for a refund and one dollar from the third countries of Austria and Switzerland and whether something seems to be happening in that regard? This is a dare to say a moral, civilized question. This is far more than a financial question. One word question of moral hygiene. What has been done in these four years and has one government and one dollar asked her to return?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81711	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81712	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. So you asked one first-class political question in the last few years in the Republic of Croatia. And when we think of 1999 and the concept the former coalition government was working on, it was precisely this to know where the money was and to return it. In fact, in the four-year term, nothing was discovered or done. But very interestingly, the documentation is excluded from the parent ministries and now that a single body of all relevant factors that should deal with this work is the biggest problem where this documentation is located. At the same time, you know exactly the ways that money can go out. There's two of them. One to be taken out in cash, and the other to go through classical, payment and business banks because at the time business banks were carrying out foreign exchange payments. So they were due two years to keep those documents. After that, they are taken over by the Croatian National Bank. Today at the State's Attorney's Office, I say a body that is made up of all relevant factors in the Republic of Croatia that could possibly do something to claim back money. You must first come up with the fact that someone took them out and that they are on that jury account and that in Croatia, a process is being conducted against who did it and a normal thing that this state will then freeze property in that account and these money will not be used. However, if we use this only for political accounts at certain times when we need it, and nothing is done until the end, then the results are what they are because in these past four years, most of these accounts have been emptied and the question is whether all the holders of these accounts were with the omen of one political party or more political parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81713	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81714	The fact is that nothing has been done and the fact that nothing will be done certainly does not encourage us and that makes us dissatisfied. Now, three months ago, I have here, for example, a "National" that even came out with secret account codes for both of us. We have Teresa Barbaric's testimony that she has deposited $2 billion on the side of the bill. The earth is being defended, and some have become very rich, and now it's just a question of whether something is possible or not, or if it's all gone by the wind. "Hell cat that! Whoever didn't hide, he was an ass!" It's the same now with Brodosplit. I listen to Vidosevic yesterday, so the shipping commission is a normal thing, but one percent of the commission is $400,000 or $500,000. I would really ask the ministers to publish these secret accounts from the 1990s, so let's see how much money is where it ended and who was authorized to use them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81715	Thank you. We interrupt the session. Continuing at 12.00 hours. It is next, the honourable representative of Ivica Pancic, and Ljubica Lalić. We'll continue with the current morning. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81717	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I noticed that during the current hour, written answers to MP questions were shared. According to the Rules of Procedure, the minister is to be answered within 13 days. On September 13th of last year, I asked the agent's question to the Minister of Agriculture. Two government meetings have passed, or 132 days have passed. So 100 days more than the deadline I was supposed to get an answer to the parliamentary question. It's actually a simple question. To make me a list of the 100 biggest users of incentives in the past and last year with the amounts they received in agriculture. Well, it's unusual that a minister in 132 days can't give me an answer to such a simple question. I ask you to protect me as a parliamentary representative because the deadlines, note, are in the Rules of Procedure for 30 days, and I couldn't get an answer to that question in 132 days. And I'm still expecting him.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81718	The Rules of Procedure are very precise within which a member of the government is to be given, the minister answers the parliamentary question. And that's always at the end of the morning we have a notice, a report to the Parliament whether the government is a longer answer to a question. We'll check this out. If this question does not have a clear answer, there is no need to explain why it is gone and to answer that question. But that's what we'll do at the end of the current morning. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81719	I must say, I also sent a written question that I didn't get an answer to. Well, here's the question: I'm asking Prime Minister Sanader a similar question. So that's a clear question to determine the material. This has already been discussed in the Croatian Parliament, and then you told Mr. Prime Minister that the government will do anything to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. It's about the Upper Horizon project. The Republika Srpska project, I recall, envisions the construction of several hydropower plants in a way that shifts Neretva to the Trebišnica River. So instead of water going left towards Mostar and Metkovic they would go right to the east towards Trebinj. And with such a flow of water, most experts warn of the highly-looking ecological disaster of the Neretva River and especially its already threatened deltas. Even though you promised to do something by the time you did something today, you didn't do anything. In addition to empowering your closest associates to enter into negotiations on "The Upper Horizons" and the "Dubrovnik II" hydropower plant, projects that are conditional on each other. Is the reason for your willingness to support this extremely questionable project in the pressures of a foreign government. Because foreign capital lies behind the Upper Horizon, I don't know, and I wouldn't want to speculate. But the fact is that at least two meetings of your co-workers with representatives of Republika Srpska authorities were held, and in the Croatian public they were silenced. So it's an old government practice again. Hide information, and then when the secret is revealed, the denial of the obvious, all in order to buy time and bring the public before the final act. But thanks to God, he didn't make it. However, one thing is not clear in all of this, and that is why I am asking. Which is the cause of our fascination with the project of Republika Srpska "The Upper Horizons" which will turn Republika Srpska into the largest exporter of electricity and turn the valley of Neretva into a salty desert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81720	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81721	Mr. Representative, you are obviously a great expert on the Upper Horizons and environmental protection, as you were a great expert on defenders, so you passed the law that you tried to do, but you failed because there is a HDZ, you tried to destroy the dignity of Croatian defenders. So, because of the great success in the defence career and the minister's career, the SDP president probably has you now as the Minister for Environmental Protection in the Shadow. I'm afraid, of course, that won't be the case, but if it were for you to come into the possibility of dealing with environmental protection in order to destroy the protection of the environment in Croatia just as you destroyed all the rights of the defender and what you were dealing with in your previous term. So much for that. Now let me tell you what we did. And you're walking around, buzzing, looking for some topics that you can't do anything about politically. Because if you cared about that, then you would have supported two and a half years ago the National Water Council, which is at its meeting in Opuzen, in which it is multi-party, only you were not there, decided to strongly oppose, which is the Council for Waters representing both the Government and the Parliament, strongly oppose all these plans of Republika Srpska. That's what we did two and a half years ago. A letter from the Minister of Resorship towards Sarajevo, according to the Government in Sarajevo, was also sent to you today pretending as if nothing had happened to the National Council for Waters, or ours, to come to the Parliament and refer to your practice in SDP as slandering the government and to me personally that we were bewitched. We're only bewitched if we can say it that way only by the stupidity of some people, but I won't say which.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81722	Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81723	Now I see that Mrs. Ankica Tudjman was right when she said that she, that she... When she said you were fired by President Tudjman because you didn't do anything, so just turn it off, that you didn't do anything, you wrote songs. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] So then I thought maybe the cause of the fascination of this project was poetic, because the Upper Horizons were instigating a poet... So for your poetic reasons, you entered into a deal with the prime minister of Republika Srpska. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] The question is, are you the prime minister of Republika Srpska? And as for...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81724	Come on, don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81725	And what are you nervous about?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81726	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81727	As for the Croatian defenders and the Defense Act. Well, my Law of Defense has not fallen in the Constitutional Court, but yours has fallen. And why is that? Because you're incompetent and because you manipulated the defenders, and now we're back...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81728	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81729	Not only will you turn Neretva into a desert...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81730	Order, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81731	You already want... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81732	Okay. If satisfaction and dissatisfaction are expressed with the answer to the parliamentary question, then why should a member of the government go to such comparisons and comparisons with...... Why? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81733	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81734	Finish it, please. Order, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81735	Not only do you want to make Neretva a desert, it is your intention to make Croatia a European Sahara, but you will not succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81736	Order, please! Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go. Order, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81737	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, as referred to in Article 214 of our Rules of Procedure, the representative shall be informed if he or she interferes with the speaker in the performance. I suggest that the Croatian public assess how many times a fellow Pancic has fallen into his question. If someone's unhappy with the question, that's another problem. But I beg you, you control whether he's speaking in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but forbid the intruders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81738	I agree with you that we shouldn't go into it, but let's not use it and ask me to selectively apply it once yes, not once. Please do not involve respected advocates in the word and let us not create a climate one in which, in these representative issues, evil blood is created in which the situation in which the incursions occur, there are different assessments, qualifications. As a rule, this always leads to a situation like this. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Telegraphs are rolling. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, the collection of songs is always useful. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81739	Mr. President, I have a question and I'm asking the Minister of Economy. According to the FINA report today in Croatia, employers do not pay contributions to pension and health insurance for a total of 35,000 workers. According to a report by the state's attorney in bankruptcy, 20 billion kuna were reported with the basis of unpaid taxes and contributions and there is no chance of payment. Non-payments are not just private employers, but also, unfortunately, states. Here's an example. During 2001 it was built, and in early 2002 the first and only Croatian vegetable and fruit dryers in Vrpolje started. According to the established capital, the largest individual owner is the Republic of Croatia. In order to finalise the product and thereby ensure a positive business, the coalition government or the Racan government, in November 2003, made a decision on the recapitalisation of 8 million kuna, and this decision was never implemented by Sanader's Government, nor did it find any other solution and the dryer is operating with a loss of 29 million kuna today. Due to the inability to pay salaries at the end of 2004, state interventions, but only in the amount of net wages so that no taxes and contributions for pension insurance have been paid since October 2004 until today. In Croatia, it is not unusual for the state to intervene, but it also addressed the issue of a retirement internship at the time, which is not the case with squire workers. If the government, as the representative of the largest owner, does not want to solve the problem of the dryer, I ask when it will solve the problem of outstanding contributions and thus equate the wrangling workers with all other workers who have received the salary by intervention of state funds. It is the obligation of the state to protect the realisation of the rights of workers that they are given by law in spite of this, Mr. Prime Minister, which you may think differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81740	Thank you. Minister of Economy Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81741	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Parliamentarians, it is not clear that the government does not want to resolve the rights of workers or pensioners either, it has shown many times over the past three years. Your question refers specifically to the dryer which is in the portfolio of the second ministry and my colleague, Minister Cobankovic. What I can tell you is the problem will be solved, the Ministry of Agriculture, along with the county, has formed a commission, I have so much information about it, and for all other details, which and at what stage is this commission's work and how the problem of this dryer will be solved, I believe that the commission and the resolution ministry will inform you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81742	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81743	I'm not happy with the answer, Mr. Minister, and that's why I'm asking for a written answer, because I didn't ask you for a solution to the dryer, but I asked you for contributions. You claim it's incorrect that the government wants to protect workers' rights, but the figures say you're not telling the truth. The figure of the 12 billion kuna blockade in order to collect taxes and contributions at this time, i.e. 20 billion kuna of non-payment claims in bankruptcy proceedings, speaks of the number of workers who are not paid pension and disability and health insurance, which means they are not granted a pension internship. Our workers are exposed to various kinds of scheme from employers. I understand when it comes to private capital, but when it comes to the state as an employer and as an employer, it does not pay 2 years in one case, and in other cases it is inadmissible. I asked you about the pension insurance system, not the dryer issue, and I'm asking you a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81744	Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81745	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, colleagues and colleagues. My question is for the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. There's a lot of talk these days about how to fill out property card forms. With personal insights close to a thousand 500 forms of property cards, I saw completely unstandardized and incomplete lists of the property, which shows that no one entered these lists of antiques, no furs, no watches, no jewelry, HI-FI devices. And for this reason, I ask you, Madam Minister, to give me a precise answer as to whether the property card forms should have included the items in which this should be stated, all of these values which are not visible or entered anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81746	Minister Anna Lovrin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81747	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative. I'm afraid I'm not exactly the right address to which this question is addressed. Namely, this question is not in the domain of the Justice Department's affairs, but here is probably just like you, and some of these thousand almost officials who filled out their property cards and didn't keep it necessary to enroll me with the same question. Therefore, I will use what the Law prevents conflict of interest and foresees. This Law established the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest and, the Law says, that in the event of a conflict of interest, the question is referred to the Committee. Therefore, I, as an official and encouraged by other officials, must stress from the ranks of many political parties and extra-party parties, to refer this question to the Committee for Conflicts of Interest. But if a thousand 500 questionnaires have been filled out wrongly as we may now hear it from some statements, then obviously something with a guideline and a pattern is wrong. It might be useful here, here, to say this question, namely, I can speak and that's something that belongs to my part-round work, and that's a question of preventing conflicts of interest against a corruption programme that I'm the coordinator of. In fact, if it was not quite a good thing in this Law, it also envisioned a programme to combat corruption that predicted that this Law should be passed because it did not contribute sufficiently and strengthen confidence in the bodies of public authorities. One of the measures is also the amendment of this Act, one of the measures is the more detailed regulation of procedures for registration in property cards and the same strength and transparency of sanctions, the provision of possible political responsibility and the holder of these tasks from the Anti-Corruption Programme is the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. But here, as far as I know from the Commission today, according to us, I am taking the opportunity here to say, excellent cooperation in implementing an anti-corruption programme with all public authorities, with civil society, with civil society associations. Here's what we don't really have in the case of this Committee. Here is how much, we will continue to work within the framework of anti-corruption and this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, and for this we will refer to the Committee which decides on a possible conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81748	Thank you. Comrade Leko, I see you've lifted a plate to correct an incorrect quote. Article 187(1), paragraph 180(7), reads, during the current morning, the representative may not request a word to respond to the alleged or correct incorrect statement referred to in the parliamentary question of another representative or, in response to the parliamentary question, by the President or a member of the Government. ... I know, but... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Velimir Plesha, MP. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81749	Here I thank Madam Minister for this answer and in any case, since my question has not reached the right address, I will also refer this issue to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, but I must also say that I will refer the issue as a member of the National Council for the Monitoring of Anti-Corruption Programme. Because I think that this Council can also ask such a question and that "Transparency International" will find a reason to finally resolve this issue, meaning the systematicisation of issues in the property card. Because otherwise we're going to get into this situation that, we're going to ask ourselves a question of the effectiveness of the property card system for a while. If they're necessary, they're not, they're not what they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81750	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81751	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer the question to the Minister of Economy, Mr. Vukelic. In fact, at the beginning of our government's mandate, she promised to launch Croatia. Now, at the end of the term of office, even the optimists cannot see more significant progress, especially not on this economic plan. That the criticism of the government's economic policy is justified and accurate confirms these days the report "The Wall Street Journal" which placed Croatia, according to economic freedom estimates, 109th place out of 157 rated countries. This bad news, i.e. Croatia's fall from 55th to 109th on the scale of economic freedoms, is explained by many criticisms and high taxes, burdensome regulation, red tape, lack of protection of property rights, limiting labour legislation, widespread corruption, non-transparent government decisions that often lead to conflicts of interest or bad decisions, the absence of any major economic reform. Very unpleasant and harsh grades for both the state and the government that's headed her. So I ask you, are you going to ask the government to discuss these assessments and problems and propose with yesterday's export and a few more offensives in the election year when you haven't already done it in three years of office?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81752	Thank you. Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81753	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Parliamentarians, not only could the citizens of the Republic of Croatia see that they are still moving in both economic and other segments of our society, many international institutions have seen it. Therefore, I would really like you to mention and comment on all the international institutions that have shown a significant trend of progress in recent months and past years, I will only mention the question that I think is the question of all the issues when it comes to the economy. It's a question of competitiveness. When we came to those competitiveness assessments, our country's global competitiveness from 60 and some places came to 50 and some place. So, I think that a lot of good is done, that is, that it has been assessed by all international factors so far, and all that this Croatian government has done in the launch of the Croatian economy and through projects of small and medium-sized enterprises, through support from various industrial branches, through increasing coverage of imports and exports, continues with clear and new actions as you mentioned in the latest action of the Croatian export offensive project, so the project that is actually aimed at raising Croatia's competitiveness on both domestic and foreign markets and increasing our exports which I think is clear to all of us and I am particularly glad that we agreed in our public that export is actually a prerequisite for economic growth and for the growth of our production above all. Therefore, this analysis, which you have discussed and the report as well as all other reports, has always been carefully considered and considered, but what is certainly clear to all of Croatia has made a significant step in the development of the Croatian economy in the conditions of business for Croatian companies, no one wants to say that all the problems and difficulties that exist in Croatia and when it comes to justice, corruption and so on. and for these difficulties there are concrete projects of this government and for this reason, it is certain that this year too, as seen last year, further trends in growth and economy, growth in entrepreneurship, and thus the growth in employment that we had in the past year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81754	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81755	So as we started at the beginning of the year with the first export offensive, maybe we get to 8. Chopic's offensives, but if we look at the satisfaction of the citizens, then I certainly cannot be satisfied with the stagnation of salaries, with the decline of pensions in average salary, with growing health obligations, in education, etc. As for competitiveness and also domestic entrepreneurs and businessmen say they have a bigger problem doing business on the domestic market than on the foreign market, and if we look at further data from this report then they say that European countries have achieved impressive results, and in the inter-European countries behind Croatia are only Bosnia and Herzegovina, Russia, Ukraine and Belarus, and these days some international politicians with a high reputation have seen us as wrinkly... Europe, which must indeed be worrying for all our citizens, and especially for the Croatian government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81756	Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81757	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Mr. Cobankovic, Minister of Agriculture. In recent days, there has been another false affair called the above horizon from the SDP factory of lies and deception. We could hear from the unequivocal statements of Mr. Prime Minister that there is no agreement or that anyone would want to give it to the project "top horizons", and it is also known that the National Council for Water two and a half years ago in Opuzen held its session and discussed this problem and clearly gave instructions to the ministries in what way to react and not allow any changes to the water regime that could negatively affect the valley of Neretva. In that sense, Mr. Minister, I ask you a question as to what your ministry has since been responsible for and the Croatian waters have taken on this issue and how will you react in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81758	Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81759	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. And let me say that this government takes great care of the national interests of the Republic of Croatia in all segments and so on in the water economy. It has already been said here that the National Council as the highest body for the water economy in the Republic of Croatia two years ago discussed the issue at its session I would also say to the thematic session in Opuzen where the whole issue of the Neretva Basin was discussed, discussed and negatively reflected in the announcement of multi-purpose use of water flows from the upper horizon. In this context, I would like to stress that since Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a party to the ESPO Convention on the Environmental Assessment of Cross-State Borders from 1991, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina signed a contract in 1996 to regulate water-economic relations. To achieve the objectives of the contract, the Committee for the Water Economy of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina has been appointed. This Committee shall establish its subcommittees and one of the subcommittees has requested complete water documentation related to the announcement of the arrangements of the upper horizons and the Croatian side is very well and closely monitoring everything that is going on in July last year. The Croatian side will not agree to an agreed solution of something that is not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and for these very reasons we have established monitoring on Neretva, we are monitoring the situation, we are monitoring the movement of water and we will continue to closely monitor everything that happens in Neretva.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81760	Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81761	So I would like to thank Mr. Minister for once again unequivocally telling you what it is and certainly the inhabitants of the Neretva Valley will be pleased with this answer and will be able to assess in fact the reasons why this false affair was staged in the public precisely in this pre-election year. It is really unnecessary that in this way, this problem which is of great importance for the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, for the Neretva Valley, is actually trying to harm the interests of the Republic of Croatia through false affairs. Therefore, I believe that citizens recognize very much the place where it was created and I say that once again it is the factory of lies in the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81762	Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81763	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Mr. of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I'm asking Mr. Branko Vukelic, Minister. In fact, we are aware of the fact that the external trade balance of the Republic of Croatia remains poor, and that the products and services that the Republic of Croatia exports are of lower value added. Whether concrete activities have been taken in terms of creating assumptions for increasing exports and changing the structure of exports, since this is necessary to increase overall economic growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81764	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go. Oh, yeah, you should answer that. Economy Minister Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81765	Thank you, Mr. President. The honourable parliamentary representative here, and this, and this question and this answer will in fact refer to a previous debate in which there have been issues and various, diverse reports by international institutions. I will repeat once again, Croatia's progress from 64 places when the issue of competitiveness is global to 51 witnesses that this government has defined clear goals from the first moments in its economic programme and has taken a number of concrete actions to improve our production, our economy because this is a prerequisite for both greater exports and greater employment and all that we want to achieve. So in these three years, we have been able to reverse the trends that awaited us at the end of 2003. At that time we had a coverage of imports – exports at a level of around 43%. She's today, these years she's come to those 47, 48%. Therefore, significantly faster export growth than imports has improved this stock balance or coverage but this is not clearly sufficient. We are in strengthening production which is a prerequisite for strengthening exports and better coverage of imports by exporting, achieved other good trends in Croatia so that last year we achieved for the first time and a number of new crafts of production character. Also, for the first time, there are a number of new companies that are productive. Also for the first time, the number of investment investments in Croatia that are facing, directed towards production. So, strengthening precisely our production, strengthening our competitiveness, the precondition for exports. It is certain that this is not enough and that we want another faster pace, and because of this last year, somewhere in April in talks with exporters, the association of exporters, therefore, concrete companies and employers who are still present in all markets were discussed and agreed and set out in the creation of a strategy that will actually aim to increase exports. The strategy is called Croatia's export offensive. It was made from half last year to the end of last year. And here we are this week at the Convention of Exporters and presented it. That is, therefore, one set of measures, 20 concrete, operational measures to be taken over the next three years to achieve the objective. The objective is to cover imports with exports in the finality. I'm not saying that this will work in three years and 100% but in any case increase the number of exporters by 25% this three years, increase and double our exports in these three years and change the structure of our exports. So, export goods with higher extra value. The same strategy is also clearly defined how and how all institutions that are related to the exporter will function. For the first time such an export strategy has been made in the Croatian state. But for the first time, they worked on such a strategy as partners and the Ministry of Economy, so the government and one other chamber and Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Employers, worked on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, up to a hundred experts and experts of various and different exporters themselves, thus creating such a strategy that clearly regulates the system and the way in which it will operate in the service of entrepreneurs, exporters, encouraging and clearly revealing certain programmes, projects, services, whether they are credit-related, whether it is support, grants, in that strategy and this year, in the autumn, will also launch a PHARE project that actually offers 100 to 200 000 euros of grants only to exporters. So, the goal is to strengthen our competitiveness, our economy. This strategy provides for 6 new clusters for those goods that we consider to have this higher added value, that we have capacities in Croatia, that we can strengthen their capacities, that in the cluster of joint entrepreneurs we can strengthen and make them competitive. Therefore, this export offensive is actually a continuation of everything this government has done in these three years. United all the activities, it included both HItroRez and HItro.HR, therefore, those stop shops for exporters. And I'm going to say in the end, I'm glad that the professional world of Croatia is too, so I would also say by political consensus that exports are necessary and that exports should be directed. So then I'll say if there is an economic expert from the SDP right now Mr. Jurcic, and we know that SDP always reduces the effects of what could be with this kind of export offensive, gave the possibility through it in the short term, in the short time 20% increase in exports and 10% substitution of imports with exports, so 30% balance of the trade limit then if we double it with 60% I'll really be satisfied and firm and I'm convinced that in three years we're really going to achieve decisive results with this export strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81766	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81767	Mr. Ministers, I thank and encourage that this strategy will now deliver results in improving the external trade balance of the Republic of Croatia. And what makes us even more optimistic is just so far the results in entrepreneurship areas, in export activities such as catering and tourism by subsidising and small fleets of fishing. And also, it's also a confirmation and recently in Kelinski, at the nautics fair that just one small ship got high and good grades. Therefore, thanks to the Croatian government and these small steps result in a better external trade balance but also increases the number of employees and strengthens the development of the economy in the region of Dalmatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81768	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81769	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Madam Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I refer my question to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Mr. Bozidar Kalmeta. On behalf of the citizens of the city of Vukovar, please answer the question of what life means for Vukovar. Based on the decision to purchase apartments in the area of the town of Vukovar as areas of special state care, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is asked to waive the funds paid for the purchase of the aforementioned apartments and the same re-use for the development and renewal of the city area and the overall development of the economy from which an increase in the number of employees, the creation of new jobs and overall progress will take place in relation to other areas of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81770	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81771	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, this idea of yours and this proposal of yours is good and commendable to me. However, such things and decisions cannot be solved by decisions, but it is a matter of law and it should be dealt with by law. In fact, back in '92. the year was passed a Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law. He's been changed several times, and he's a defacto today, so we have analysis, we know exactly when it comes to Vukovar clearly as much as he has. I invite you to sit together representatives of the city of Vukovar and you as the initiator of this to take a look at it from all aspects, and if we agree to write a new law and then refer it to the government or afterwards to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81772	Representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81773	Minister, I know the government has good intentions when it comes to the city of Vukovar and so far this government has shown sensitivity to the city of Vukovar and I believe, I believe that if the government needs to change the law to help Vukovar stand on hard ground, Vukovar truly deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81774	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81775	Mr. President of the Parliament, I refer my question to Prime Minister Sanader. The government spokeswoman awkwardly defending you in that affair with a fantastically valuable collection of your watchbooks said the government's position that people who don't have a house, two cars and at least 50,000 euros in savings should not be concerned with high policy. This introduction of an property censorship for politics translated into ordinary language actually means poor, poor Croatian, so you won't be so poor in politics. Politics is an activity reserved for us who have houses, which we have watches collections, which we have two cars and at least 50,000 euros in savings. It's not a policy for you who lost your jobs while we were buying the companies you used to work in. It's not a policy for you who bled out in the war while we in Austria acquired our wealth as successful entrepreneurs. It's not a policy for those of you who lost your future because we stole it from you who imagined it and spent a privatisation robbery. And now you're not going to want to do politics like that. Strangely enough, not all of your ministers meet the set criteria. Although Vice President Polancec, should be admitted, recently pulled out by buying shares of Podravka. I'm asking you when will you replace those ministers who don't meet the criteria of your government's property censorship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81776	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81777	Mr. Representative, you are loyal to your very imaginative questions, formulating these questions, and that's absolutely good because it contributes to an even more cheerful atmosphere that we all want, one atmosphere in which we want to relax and relations in the Parliament, and I think that's good. That's why I support you, and I pray that every time you're this creative, you'll always be this creative. Unfortunately, this creation and this imagination is not based in reality but in something out of the loop and it's in your imagination. Because now that you and the others have said it, I could now cut and answer every imaginative sentence of yours. If I go and I don't have to, because the viewers are really going to evaluate how much imagination there is in that imagination and how many bad things, I'm saying there's nothing wrong but there's a lot of imagination. But one sentence specifically encouraged me and I have to answer it, and that is a sentence in which you said and took the defenders, that is, the poor defenders who defended Croatia, they have no right to be in politics, they do not have the right to enter politics because they do not meet what the spokesman said to God and what is not true that he said. I'll tell you one thing, just one thing about it. You, when it was necessary to raise your hand for Croatia, which was then defended by the defenders, left the Parliament. If this is a different ex-post mind today, I say hello and I'm glad you're all getting up in defense today. I would prefer it if you had stood up in defense of the defenders and in a way that voted in favour of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers what we have heard in one reply today. No, you've changed the law you inherited, you've abolished their rights by saying they're privilege fighters, and when we went to correct that injustice as well as a series of other injustices that you've brought to law because you had most of them, then you were not in the Parliament. Therefore, do not shed crocodile tears on defenders but do something concrete for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81778	Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81779	Mr. Prime Minister, in a game of imagination and conceit, it's true that the government spokesman said what he said no matter what you say today that he didn't say. What he said was transmitted by all the media. Therefore, it makes no sense to deny the truth. In the game of imagination and contention, it is true that there were five defenders in the government of Prime Minister Racan. Show me how many are in your government. In the game of imagination and conceit, it is true that the SDP advocated the rights of the defender but did not advocate it, and it was against those who declare themselves defenders to be drawn by some right to the discipline of the real defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81780	Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81781	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Neven Ljubicic, I would like to direct my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr. Neven Ljubicic. I refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr. Neven Ljubic. Hepatitis is one of the leading public health problems, so it is no wonder that the World Health Organization dedicated last year 2006 to fighting this serious disease. Special place in this viral infectious disease that spreads if it does not prevent it from taking up hepatitis C. How much it is, it takes a special place in that it has a very progressive course in most cases. And almost 70% of cases of chronic cirrhosis of the liver have just been caused and have baselines in hepatitis C, as 60% of cases of hepatocellular cancer have a basis in hepatitis C and 30% of cases of liver transplants have a basis in this disease. You have recognized this problem, and since 2004, you have been constantly funding anonymous free tests on hepatitis C since the year 2004. Since there are some rumors that want to disprove this for public purposes, will you continue to finance this test? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81782	Minister Neven Ljubicic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81783	Thank you very much Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Representative, so here you have said a lot in fact the data of hepatitis C, however, there is another fact that we all need to be aware of. In 2002, and this already has quite a European Commission, and in fact, it sent a guideline to Croatia about the high incidence of hepatitis C in general in Europe and the requirement for immediate action. Unfortunately, in 2002 and that memo and that action, the memo ended up somewhere in the drawer. Of course, the action has not been carried out and in some ways we suffer now what was not implemented in 2002. However, it is true, we recognized this problem, so when we took responsibility for everything and, among other things, for the health system and public health problems in Croatia, we launched this action in 2004 so anonymous free testing of hepatitis B and hepatitis C viruses. Of course we continue in this year. It will continue continuously. And there's one more thing. Unfortunately, we don't have the vaccine today. We can't stop this disease. We can act at the level of education. Well, maybe I'll go back to what I did, and we're not actually dealing with some kind of sexualism or anything. We're in health care. So let's learn to live with our environment. Let's learn a lot about illnesses. That's why you're a health care professional. Of course, recognising what's the point of things, and that's a lot of people who have been sick lately. Here is exactly for, if I am not mistaken the day after tomorrow, the Council of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute will also put "pegylated" Interferon on the list of special expensive medicines. It's worth about 40 million kuna. This will greatly reduce the waiting list and allow all of our citizens to be treated equally regardless of their economic or social status and must be given this medicine as the only guarantee that they will be cured and, of course, will contain the disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81784	Representative Lucia Chikesh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81785	Thank you, Mr. Minister. In the name of all those who, thanks to this method of testing, have preserved their privacy and have also opened their doors and engaged in therapy in a timely manner, in the Republic of Croatia at the level of the year almost 200 cases are treated. They are supposed to have about 60 thousand virus carriers in the Republic of Croatia. Twenty-five thousand patients. So we see what a public health problem this is. I say not only in the world, but also in our country. But I'm using this opportunity, you know, for the problem of therapy itself. You know that therapy is currently covered by genotype 1 and genotype 4. I hope you find the possibility and include in therapy those two genotypes that were less happy so far and that genotype 2 and genotype 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81786	Dear representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81787	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm giving the question to the prime minister. Mr. Prime Minister, in this game of imagination and conceit, I'm going to ask you a rather serious question. Your government suggested and then pulled the so-called. "Manual law". I think it's primarily important for our country, and I'm sure that the cities of that hall will be built with public competitions. You're not sure about that. So a few days ago, you made a statement that you'd expect with a chill in your heart that we'd be able to build a hall for the World Handball Championship. My question to you. Have you followed with the same chill in your heart when a second-degree body of art will meet for children who have not met for the sake of your better information for eight months?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81788	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81789	Mr. President, Madam Representative. I said to follow with a chill in my heart whether the World Cup in Croatia will be realized and that's what I'm standing on. And now I'm going to explain to you why that is? Why did I say that? I said that because the cities of the world championship, along with the Handball Alliance, came to the government with an initiative... So you're not interested in the answer, ma'am... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So what are you gonna tell me how I'm gonna answer the question? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Well, it wasn't a question.]] The time has passed when you said what will be answered and what will be said. So you're not interested in the answer? If you're not interested in the answer perhaps that Mr. Representative Leco tells the President of the Parliament that now you should also warn about the incursions as he warned earlier. But now the game is talking Okay. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Now the game's in. So this way with a chill in their heart because they came to the government, because they came to the government asking for help from the government. And because they said, "We will not be able to complete the building of the hall within the scheduled time." After they had also made official requests, they asked us to meet and to help the government. And on the SDP proposal, we went with this law. So one of the leading mayors of SDP, the mayor of Zagreb, we went with this proposal. After he himself took part in the initiative and made some suggestions, and he wasn't the only one on it because we have six cities, and then he distanced himself. We realized that the halls that should be built in Zagreb, two Arena Zagreb and a smaller room of 5,000 people, would be built without such a law. And in that sense, we withdrew that law because the gentlemen who proposed it had publicly distanced themselves and said we don't need that law. We've done logically. When they said they needed it, we suggested it, when they said they didn't need it, we pulled it. And this council thing I don't know how you said about the kids that you're gonna get a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81790	Dear representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81791	Thank you, Mr. President. What can I tell you, Mr. Prime Minister, that I've given you pleasure or dissatisfaction? Of course I'm not happy because you haven't answered my question, but since you call it imagination and I'm seriously asking you. I'm seriously asking you one more time by respecting this answer about the World Handball Championship. So I'm asking you, did you feel a chilling around your heart when you lifted the VAT on importing cars for civilian people with disabilities. Do you now feel a chilling around the heart that no national strategy has yet been adopted? Excuse me, I didn't interrupt the Prime Minister and please don't interrupt me. A national strategy for, and the old one is no longer worth it. Did your heart freeze while I've been asking about the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund for the past two and a half years? Which ice had yet to freeze your heart when you abolished the compensation for transportation for sick children and only at the pressures of the opposition of this same one, so it rightly returned. But you are the president of a socially sensitive government, so some more sensitive ministers have well explained these problems about children with developmental difficulties. And about the real and real yawn in your heart, ask your parents who haven't been eight years, eight months could have come to, to the art of their children. But I am not interested in the aggregate state of your heart but in the irresponsibility of you and your government for all of this and, of course, I am not satisfied with the answer and I am looking for answers to all these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81792	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81793	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister Ljubičić, I'd like to refer the matter to you. In Zagreb, Šalata, 28 years old, there is a building, a protected monument of culture, the only orthopedic clinic in Croatia that performs three and a half thousand operations a year and provides a service for 60,000 inhabitants of all Croatia. The orthopedic clinic is also a central educational institution. It is also the health ministry's reference centre especially for major joint injuries. The institution is attended by doctors from other hospitals who are significantly better equipped and better equipped and in a better edition, and is also a mirror of all Croatian health care. The hydrotherapy building, as you know today, has been torn down because of the cost and maturity, with the exception of the adaptation of former stables and apartments for auxiliary staff along Mesic Street and the addition of one department. Nothing happened on that building since the 20th, and since '85. until '98. They were just doing studies and projects. '92. For years, the medical school enrolled in the entire complex at the garnery. '98. An IMF loan came through the IMF, offering a 118m-euro loan for the construction of this building. But then began our famous charms that have lasted since '98. until 2000 with the implementation of the project and withdrawal of this loan. At the insistence of the Ministry of Health then the project was done by an exclusive court designer, the APZ, who at the same time received a job designing the Rebro hospital. KBC, the Ministry of Health and the APZ suggest that orthopedia and its credit allocate to “Rebro”. The European Union, taught by a similar experience of unintended spending of funds, is withdrawing credit and orthopedia is no longer mentioned in the framework of the “Rebra” or in Croatia. And so Croatia remains short for 118 million credit funds from Europe. Mr. Minister, when and how you intend to provide funds to build a new or upgrade of this existing orthopedic clinic that operates on the lower sustainable standard when we have already managed to lose or maybe not in the unsurpassed talent, and patients and orthopedics continue to take taxis to “Rebro”. It's about saving other services that we're not even talking about. Every day, various inspections are being brought into an unpleasant situation that this building, according to the law and rules, should be partially or entirely closed from boiler room to black, dense smoke, which culminates in the satisfaction of ordinary citizens, not to mention the provision of all other services. At the same time, citizens rightly wonder what the position of the Ministry of Health is about the completion of the Blato hospital, for which they have spent over a decade of their funding when hundreds of millions of euros of credit funds are employed at one of the hospitals. Does anyone run a full investment policy in healthcare especially in Zagreb? Thank you very much. Mr. Hebrang, I didn't ask you a question!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81794	Minister Neven Ljubicic. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81795	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, the problem with the strategy is that you have put together a chronologically, but for the sake of informing our public, we still have to say who and when. It is true that in 1999 and the holder of this project in terms of the development of the main project implementation documentation was the APZ. And he made a complete project, a very good project, which was then reviewed and rated as such. The money existed which was practically secured from the World Bank loan in 1999, the IMF has nothing to do with it, the World Bank exactly and the value you said. However, in 2000 and 2001, and this should be clearly highlighted by the then government "revocate" funds, closes the orthopedic project, reroutes funds to the other side. We know where she's being redirected. They were rerouted to a large part in the remuneration of individuals for intellectual services. We have talked about this countless times, the public is aware of it, and the other part is being turned into investments that were not planned according to the World Bank project. This, of course, came as a negative review of the project and of course meant that in our recent final credit base according to the World Bank we lost a lot. But no matter what I say, we won't look into the past again. I don't want to accuse anyone right now. I want to make it clear that we absolutely accept this project with him working on one. Why? So in the meantime, the profession developed, so it went one step further, and of course we want to revitalize that project in the sense that the system of day surgery is opening up inside. That's what we're working on, and it's absolutely certain that we're actually going to have enough power to finish this project. As far as the hospital in Blato is concerned, you know that there was actually a meeting, which was led by the Prime Minister himself. The Prime Minister is with the city, in fact, where all the ministers were present has launched a whole series of projects. Among them is the project of the hospital in Blato. The hospital in Blato is owned by the City of Zagreb, so the founder of this hospital is the City of Zagreb. The Ministry of Health and Social Care, and according to what we were in charge of that meeting, we did everything. So we formed an expert group, we made carriers of each individual, every single medical section that would be incorporated into a hospital in Blato. We've created a practically complete medical-technology lab and, of course, it's over. As far as funding and steps are concerned, this remains in the City of Zagreb because the City of Zagreb has received the responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81796	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81797	Well, thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm only partially satisfied with the answer. In my question, of course, two questions are contained, but they are complexly bound. In fact, we invest in new hospitals, we invest large funds, and there is an unfinished facility which, of course, the City of Zagreb cannot complete at its expense. It must become a matter of the whole state. After all, people in hospitals from all over the country are being treated. That's why we need to think about it. All the talks and all the administrations so far over the three years your authorities have not produced results or I may not see them. So I'd like to ask you if you could give that one written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81798	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81799	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a question for the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. And it is known that we are a people who are happy to be judged and hard to make decisions, not to say judgment. And that's why it's no wonder that there's a huge number of cases in the courts that the minister has inherited and have been dealt with quite quickly lately. An improvement in the entire system has also been announced by introducing uniform management of court files, ICMS, which should be made possible, which we expect will allow faster settlement of cases in courts and more accurate insight into the state of affairs, transparency of work and decisions of courts, availability of data from the registers run by courts and the Ministry of Justice, more efficient office operations, connection and exchange of data. So, all of what they're complaining about today is that it's not transparent enough. My question for Madam Minister is, where we are at the stage of the introduction of the ICMS electronic system, which is the future of that system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81800	Thank you. Minister Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81801	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, as you have noticed, but here is the project of informing the Croatian judiciary is certainly one of the special programmes and projects of this government as part of the justice reform strategy. I've already said why information is extremely important in judicial reform. It is important because it solves the two fundamental pains of the Croatian judiciary much more effectively, which is a reduction of lagging cases and a faster settlement of court disputes. After that, of course, there was also no less important effect of information, which is transparency in the work which then prevents corruption and reduces the very suspicion of corruption because everything is clearly visible. As far as the ICMS project itself is concerned, I must say something else to see how much has been invested in the information of the courts and what the effects are already visible. In the last two years, the World Bank, European funds and funds from the judiciary have invested €200 million in the information of the judiciary, and the budget provides for a further €100 million in extra budget funds. Therefore, as regards ICMS, this is an extremely important system, because it will be extended to all courts at the final stage of all courts in the Republic of Croatia and will allow for the uniform management of the court files, which means monitoring the cases from its beginning to the end, will allow for more efficient management in courts and will allow for more effective allocation of court cases and, more importantly, more importantly, automatic allocation and will no longer be possible for volunteer decisions to be awarded to individual judges, but given the burden and complexity of the case to automatically assign cases. At this stage projects are ICMS systems or system of integrated management of court cases completed, the system is completed. It's classified as a pilot program in a court of law in Pula, and it's already applied there. Education and application at the Split court is under way, expected during the 2nd month. And by 6 months an application is expected at the Municipal Court in Zagreb and at the Commercial Court in Zagreb. The implementation of this programme by 70 courts, including county courts in Croatia, continues to be implemented by the end of 2008. Of course, we are already in talks and the interest of both the World Bank and the UNDP is shown for further funding to extend the network of courts that will be covered by the ICMS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81802	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81803	Here's a thank you for the answer. And I believe that, with the information, that is, the e-system, the introduction into land books, the cadastre, will certainly help just as transparently. With praise to the ministry for starting with the resolution of judges who lead cases into obsolescence. I believe this system will also help to make a ranking list of such judges and that it will take a really hard start to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81804	Honorable representative Miroslav Cacci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81805	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister with ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm asking Mr. Minister Bozidar Calmetti. The strategy of spatial planning and traffic development of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted by the Parliament in '97. and '99. The construction of the fast road Vrbovec-Bjelovar-Virovitica is planned, so Zagreb under the construction of continental ipsilone in the first group of priorities in the road network of Croatia. In doing so, only a four-way road, without a stop lane, so on. high levels of service, as it was built on the shares of Saint Helena-Vrbovac. The question is: Will the Croatian Roads responsible for road construction and responsible Government respect these documents, when and within which time the Vrbovec-Bjelovar section will be realised towards Virovitica, which was supposed to be built by 2005, which I establish by road routes, travels over half a million inhabitants, and in particular in which profile of the road. Whether selecting a road profile, and lately in some media due to the alleged savings mentions a two-way road, can ignore the safety of traffic along the road and who will be responsible if the newly built road becomes the road of death like the one to which the sub-level direction connects. Whether the Government purposely builds the state two-way road as we already have, in connection with the Zagreb metropolis, and for which reason the town of Bjelovar as one of the 12 major cities and Bjelovar-Biogorje County along with Virovitičko-Podravska and Koprivnica-križevci is kept in traffic and economic isolation, although its geographical and time distance from the city of Zagreb, the town of Bjelovar could be, and not the sub-urban center of the metropolis. It's less than 100 kilometers away, and the time distance is up to an hour. All right, it's built, the Istrian Ipsion was built, but that's where it's still being built. In the continental part, almost nothing is built. The spot building of the Peljesac bridge is also promised, which is far more expensive than the construction of the said roads without which the economic development of Croatia is unimaginable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81806	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81807	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Representative, I agree with everything you have said in this section about the construction of a fast road, and I will only confirm that connecting Zagreb with Bjelovar and Virovitica, i.e. Koprivnica is one of the priorities of this government and that this programme is in a four-year programme. Not only that, but the first Vrbovac-Gradac stock you know, which is about 15 kilometers long and an investment worth about 350 million kuna is about to end and will be ready by summer this year. Furthermore, from Gradec, as you yourself said, this ipislon is rising into two arms, one towards Bjelovar and towards Virovitica, and the other towards Koprivnica. At this point, these arms are already being designed and the answer to this question, which is a road profile, so a four-track road is being designed to connect Gradec with Bjelovar and it seems to me to be about 23 kilometers away. The project is going into continuity and will not be stopped and will be completed as planned and planned, which is to be a four-way road all the way to Bjelovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81808	Honorable representative Miroslav Cacci.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81809	I was certainly pleased when he answered the same question three months ago. But keep an eye on the public, you hear a lot of things, and we're a little bit more and more, and we believe when it comes from people who are high-ranking. Nor, well, that's it. I agree that, or I agree to this answer that the four-way road will continue towards Bjelovar. Although I have to show a little bit of fear, because I travel every day on this road and I see that something strange is happening right now on this bypass around the Vrbovac, because nothing's going on. I haven't seen anyone there in a couple of months, not to say for sure for two months. At the same time, there is a regulation prohibiting traffic on the road to Podravski highway heavy trucks. Every day we see them in a huge number, so I wonder if all these special permits were really to be issued or what they say, who better liked it, so that something should be done until the road is built in a profile like this we're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81810	Thank you. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81811	Dear Mr. President, members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and colleagues. I ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Mr. President, the number of pension executions in 2006 increased by 30 thousand compared to 2005 and reached 177,000 pensions, and 30% of the total of 600 thousand executives over the incomes of all Croatian citizens. Even 173 thousand 209 pensioners were left without a share or a whole pension due to unpaid loans that pensioners were forced to raise to stay alive. They are raised mostly for the payment of directors, for food and medicine, or for the replacement of permanent household appliances. In addition to the difficult social situation, the trend of expanding the debt crisis among Croatian citizens also contributes to the very liberal provisions of Articles 178 and 179. The Executive Act, which, despite the limitation of one-third, or one-half of the salary or pension as defined in Article 149, allows for, after the consent of the perpetrators of the full salary or pension. These provisions, introduced in the legal practice of the Republic of Croatia, provide for full protection of creditors through the 2005 Executive Law, which is 95% of the cases of banks and other financial institutions, at the same time creating major social uncertainty for debtors without any protection. Since such an institution continues to enable various financial malfeasances from vegetables to racketeering and leads to deepening of the debt crisis, my question is: What and when the Government of the Republic of Croatia is thinking of doing to comply with the provisions of the Executive Law with constitutional provisions that speak of the social state and about social justice and respect for human rights as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. In the Croatian party of pensioners, we believe that no one in the social state in Croatia can fully give up the right to pay or to retire, thereby jeopardising their existence, i.e. the existence of a family.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81812	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81813	Mr. Representative, I think you have raised one important question, but not only in connection with the pensioners but also with other groups in Croatian society, it is understandable that you are talking about the pensioners because you represent them in the Assembly, but it is the fact that no one is in such a situation that you have accurately described, brought against your will but brought about by your will. He's given consent to such a situation. What we can do is I would gladly accept this question as an initiative to jointly launch amendments and amendments to the law, the Implementing Law, and to prevent someone from giving up 100% of their pensions, i.e. salaries, because this is what credit institutions or financial institutions are asking for. It's the only way, but that state, then we have to be aware that, and you're right, that's one liberal law that, in which, therefore, there were different groups of Croatian societies that asked me to go with such executive law and such provisions. And the Croatian Parliament passed that Law. Since our people are getting into difficulties, both pensioners and others because they are in debt and over, but they themselves agree with this provision because otherwise there can be no implementation, it might be good to consider the initiative to actually go into changes and complement, or amendments to the law, and to limit as before, to 30%, and not to 100%, so we'll consider it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81814	Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81815	I am pleased with your response and understanding of this problem and I think it is okay to approach one analysis of this problem and put so-called in the spirit of European social experiences. social anchors that prevent over-indebted citizens. I think it's in the spirit of this European social tradition that we're seeking because I think it's okay to remain the restrictions on the performance that was before the novel of 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81816	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81817	The question is for the prime minister. Croatian Prime Minister, here's the "BrodoSplit" affair heading towards its end and that's good. It's thanks to Interpol above all, and it's said a lot here and here in the Parliament about it and in these questions, answers. I wouldn't go back to it, but I want to warn you of something. The scandalous behavior of the police doing the investigation. First of all, the Split-Dalmatia Police Administration is the latest case, that on 9 November last year, the so-called An informative conversation, because it has never been like this before, where together in the premises of the BrodoSplit administration were the 2 police department inspectors, the Department of Economic Crime, the shipowner Vevac who ordered the ships, 3 members of the smuggling management and Mr Drago Maček, the one who raised from his account in Graz almost $6 million. It's a scandalous fact. So now I won't talk about what's said. Afera, let's call her that. She's heading towards her end. It will be difficult for Croatia to wash if the police behave in this way. Why am I saying that? I'm talking about one police department and only some people. God forbid I think of honest people who do one of the hardest jobs in Croatia for great money. But you see, Mr Mehun, the spokesman for the Ministry of the Interior, was, this was the 9th of November last year, and on Friday, so on 19.1. of this year on Croatian television in that diary that went behind that at 19:30, I made this fact out on Friday morning, he said in the evening that it was not true, that it was a lie. Here, here in front of the Croatian public, I claim, I know all the names that were. That it's true what I'm saying and I expect you as prime minister to investigate it because he's a spokeswoman for me, the Ministry. When he said that to me, it was said by the ministry and the minister, and you're their boss, to investigate it, and if that's what I'm asking you to do, will he bear the concoctions and Minister Kirin and all those who, in such a scandalous way, are obstructing an investigation that will come to an end. Which will come to an end. That's my question based on my knowledge. I assure you that they are true, regardless of what the spokesman said. It seems scandalous to all of us. Here, that's my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81818	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81819	Mr. Representative, first of all, I am expressing my satisfaction that, unlike so far, you have really brought the ball down to the ground and that you are going towards the scale of the matter, which is that, that we want all of Croatia to investigate, to end and see the results of this investigation and to see what is there, who has done the unholy acts, who has committed the crime and that they are punished, regardless of who it is and who it was. That's true for this and that's true for the previous period. And I would like to be just as hot as you're taking it to get rid of this where we have a common attitude to get rid of everything. Because the shipyard "Split" as well as all shipyards are extremely important and we care about preserving shipbuilding and jobs and remaining one of the most important export branches. I don't know anything about this case and I will, of course, ask Minister Kirin to see what it's about, but it's interesting why today, it's interesting why the first one to find out, why he didn't inform the minister. And that's because if we don't just do it, it's good, of course it can always be put in public and in Parliament and all, but let's get it done. Why didn't he ask the Minister a question so he could settle it?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81820	Now, first of all, I would point out that we didn't exactly have the same attitudes during this discussion and discussions on this subject. I've also received a letter from the government on my written request that she signed, I can say neither guilty nor debtor, Mrs. Kosor. That there are no dishonest acts or illegals that are in accordance with good practices, as far as this transaction is concerned, and it said, Prime Minister, that $6 million cannot be considered missing. I consider it a cover-up. I didn't want to go back to it, but it was a cover-up of truth to me. Now let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. I'm not talking, I'm talking about this affair right now, and we can talk about whatever we want, but I'm specifically asking you about this. Mr. Mehun called. Maybe if it wasn't for this show or that show, it was public. Mr. Mehun on behalf of the ministry said it wasn't true. To me, he's the Ministry. He doesn't speak his mind, his wife didn't say no to him at home. He just got instructions from the ministry. You're the prime minister, it's your ministry. My point is that the police are obstructing the trafficking investigation, and they're conducting it. It's a disaster because the conjecture of it then I can talk about the story They're heavy charges based on this. [[Aggression: Those are hard words.]] If this meeting took place, Mr. Minister, if the meeting took place where everyone was in the same room. In my opinion, it's a bargaining process, not an investigation or not. I don't know what kind of information-shops. And you question, I ask you a written answer in 30 days question it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81821	Written. When the Split hearts agree and the ship swims, it can. Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81822	Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. My question is to ask the Minister of the Navy. Directors, i.e. the school board has legal powers 60 days before the competition to hire new teachers, teachers or teachers. What is your knowledge of the possible abuse of this institute because, as a rule, the admitted employees are confirmed and confirmed in the public tender, and then the public tender doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81823	Minister Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81824	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for asking, Mr. MP. In short, we have been in the last three years because of all the reforms, the processes we have undertaken since the introduction of the Croatian national... The standard, state graduations and the Bologna process total employed about 4000 and 300 people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of these, a total of some written demands that certain evaluations should be made, we approved about 30, and these were complaints, comments from people who believe that someone abused their position or their position. We are very clearly in line with the Law on elementary schooling which says that at a certain time when performing a job does not endure a delay until a working relationship based on a competition or in another prescribed way can avoid competition, but not that a person works for more than 60 days and that is what you have said with rights. After that the procedure is very clear and if you have any concrete example, here I tell you we got out of 4000 and 300 open jobs about 30 comments, each came out an educational inspection, in the main cases it was shown that it was done again on the basis of the competition, but we have that different you be free to turn around, I assure you the next day is an educational inspection at that school and we will determine who has the courage to break the law. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81825	Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81826	Mr. Minister and through this kind of behavior on the ground comes the revolt and hopelessness of our citizens, which directly affects the perception of corruption in Croatia, and in particular I mean political corruption which Europe is seriously warning about. That's why I sincerely hope you take this seriously. Why no complaints? Well, it's very simple. All these people who compete can't be afraid to complain because then they're not going to be accepted in particular. I think this is a very important issue, and I sincerely hope that you and I and all of us, to the satisfaction of all Croatian citizens, will do what we can about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81827	Dear Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81828	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. I will ask my question to Mr. Bistic of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We know how important it is for Croatia to join NATO, we know that next year Croatia would probably be accepted into NATO alliance, but we also know how much resistance there is in the Croatian public against Croatia's entry into NATO, we know that this support is below 50% today and my question is what does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do in terms of explaining to the citizens of Croatia the advantages of joining NATO that it is a military alliance, but that it is also a political alliance because it would be good for both the media and television to explain to the population, Croatian citizens who are the advantages of Croatia joining NATO, so please tell me what?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81829	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State Hidajet Biscevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81830	Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I thank you for this question because it gives me the opportunity to respond almost again to the issue of negotiations on the European Union in some way, in fact, to sum up two of the government's main strategic objectives, which will allow for the achievement of both Croatia's economic progress and the permanent security of the Republic of Croatia, so the combination of the European Union and NATO alliance, i.e. NATO, is economic security, economic progress and security, and that is certainly in the interest not only of the entire country, but of every individual citizen, citizen of this country. As far as the NATO accession programme is concerned, you know that there are national strategies, you know that it was recently established after the Riga summit that the State Committee led the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the President of the Parliament, that two parliamentary vice-presidents of the opposition are on board. I stress this for a simple reason because the composition of the committee reflects what we find extremely important on the political scene in Croatia, which is a clear, firm parliamentary consensus on this important strategic issue. After the initial meetings of the State Committee, he began his activities and so on. The executive committee led by the ambassador, our ambassador to NATO, Ambassador Bozinović and has prepared one very comprehensive plan, plan of activities and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Chief Staff and the Ministry of Defence and other sectors of the public administration that will be, i.e. bearable support for the entire operation of Croatia's accession to NATO. I would like to say here that you yourself mentioned this with a positive, extremely positive assessment of both political and economic, but also military-safety reforms that Croatia has undertaken, so with a positive assessment that was received at a recent summit in Riga that we expect to say, I would dare say in the early spring of next year and a formal call to the Republic of Croatia for full membership in NATO and of course that this fact so far positive assessments not only reflects the government's successes but obliges us to speed up our activities. I'm finishing up with some concrete plans and ideas. The main goal I would say is one public activity, public campaign will be to provide citizens with full, complete, complete information about what the NATO alliance is today, what kind of alliance it is, what transformation it has experienced to face or be more direct in order to remove some of the unfortunately present stereotypes of misunderstanding and the inaccuracies that exist in relation to NATO in the Croatian public. In this sense, a very comprehensive information campaign is going on, working with certain target social groups, working with the business sector is moving too often, with us forgetting that the Croatian economy can make remarkable progress through co-operation with NATO, i.e. working with the media, i.e. working with the media, informing citizens, etc. Thanks to me, I repeat another strong political parliamentary consensus, the paper will be facilitated by all the competent authorities and I am convinced that I am successful until this goal is achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81831	Representative Mario Zubović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81832	Thank you very much. I asked this question in order to encourage the public to talk about the NATO alliance and the accession of Croatia to NATO because one part of the population is concerned that our soldiers will go to other countries, some other countries, in some crisis areas, and I would like to see your programs explain that Croatian soldiers will not go to such crisis areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81833	Honorable representative Nikola Ivanish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81834	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and distinguished members of the government. The issue is for the respected minister Marina Matulovic-Dropulic. Question to encourage legal and construction experts from the units of the local self-government of the Gorski Kotar and regarding the calculation of the municipal contribution to the construction of the Zagreb-Rjeka highway. By 11 December, we had a regulation on how to determine the building for the calculation of the municipal contribution to which the actual construction was conducted and on which the procedure was initiated. On December 11th, you passed a new rule that was important in applying things. The unit of the local self-government of the Gorski Kotar has planned revenues from the municipal contribution under the old rule, as well as the basis of the construction of various municipal infrastructure facilities. The new rule halves the amounts of municipal contribution and we believe that it has been passed according to the interests of so, perhaps also the instructions of the company which is the investor, so Rijeka-Zagreb highway d.d. It is now handled at the level of giving as one of the criteria while all other investors in the Republic of Croatia are accounted for according to the rules of the profession. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution says they're all the same before the In this case, we hold the unequal position of investors. The new Regulation also states that the retrograde and Article 89 applies. The Constitution states: "Laws and other regulations of state authorities and bodies with public authority cannot have feedback." So, we think that the new regulation opens constitutionality issues as well as the questions of legality because, according to some professional people, it defines the concepts of construction in other ways than Article 4. Construction Act and Article 3 Public road laws. For example, the building does not have a rash or a vault of tunnels. We ask the question, what were the motives for this Regulation and what is the new rule that opens up problems of legality and constitutionality, and then possible litigation that can result in the basis of protection of investor interests against the interests of local self-government units? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81835	Thank you. Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81836	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, it is not true that only at the request of the investors of the construction or reconstruction of the road, the construction of the Zagreb-Rijeka road has been made a new rule. For almost a year now, we've had a variety of comments from various investors. So it's all roads, but it's also about people who are building their houses that, suddenly from 2006, until a few months ago, there was no problem with these calculations, that now suddenly local self-government units began to calculate the municipal contribution in a different way. And namely what's been going on. We have examples. For example, as far as the road is concerned, they counted the overpass as a closed facility. It's like a house was built somewhere, and based on it, a communal contribution is calculated. Or another example, that, for example, the road is calculated the width of the road not from the bank to the bank but from the fence to the fence, regardless of whether there is a green belt or the like. Either at the terrace or at the balcony of the family houses where they counted some units of local self-government cubatur of the balcony, regardless of what the balcony was opened and based on it and charged a municipal contribution. That's why we decided to make a new rule and define exactly what can be taken in a square or in a cubic object. Well, it's not just roads or tunnels, it's family houses. What I mentioned to the balconies, terraces and the like. And now it's definitely clear and defined. As far as the amount of municipal contribution in this Regulation is concerned, nothing new is written in this Regulation but also in law, which is that units of local self-government determine unit prices. They determine the price and we need to determine how a reckoning can be done. So that's how it is. As far as retrograde action is concerned, this is not true because all those who have received a solution to the municipal contribution and this solution remains valid. But those who have filed an application and have not been given a solution that goes according to this rule. So that's right by the ZUP and by law and there's no possibility that this is anti-constitutional but also we can't let every municipality and every city's municipal contribution count in a different way. Therefore, believe that this was not the one, we also have a request from the road, I mean from investors of the Zagreb-Rijek road, but we also have from all other requirements and I especially say from people who are even enquiries of units of local self-government. No matter what we got from them enquiries, we wrote instructions. However, they did not stick to these instructions. Therefore, we had to go with the new regulation and we think that now it is really settled in a way that the surfaces or the cubes are calculated in the same way throughout Croatia on the basis of which they are then multiplied with unit prices and a communal contribution is obtained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81837	Representative Nikola Ivanish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81838	Thank you very much for your response, Madam Secretary. I'm not satisfied with that because I don't think I asked for private houses. I said it on purpose, it's only for highways, and the question was about the Rijeka-Zagreb highway. And I think there's something in one part of your answer that remains an open question. Well, I guess the road isn't just a stake. I guess that bump is what, the road is what's taken from the space. I think you pay a communal contribution for taking into space. The road and this story about the tunnel and the tunnel reckoning. I can only say I'm sorry because I think this will have a court epilogue. That's perfectly clear, because those local self-governments think they're right. Also, the question of this retrograde is quite clear in Article 89, and anything that is retrograded under a regulation, I think, is being subdued by an anti-constitution. In view of all this and in view of the interest of these local self-governments, I ask that your answer be delivered to me in writing so that those who are interested would then act on the basis of their views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81839	You can Minister, get an answer in writing. Dear representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81840	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer the question to the minister of the family, the defender and the intergenerational solidarity of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Since 1 January 2007, the provisions of the Law on Extra for Children have been amended. Please explain in particular what these newspapers bring and explain about the supplement for the third and fourth children, given the numerous questions about what this supplement can achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81841	Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81842	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Representative! Well, as you yourself have said since the beginning of this year, the amended Law on Extra for Children is beginning to apply and it is only part of the overall population policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with which we actually started at the beginning of the term of office in 2004 but of course we have made good experience into a new project that we started with since the beginning of this year. So one of these important projects is also a change in the child care system. The most important thing we have done or what I think is extremely important and it is good because, above all, the new system includes a larger number of children, but there is an increase in compensation is that we have raised the income limit for the achievement of the child's allowance in such a way that we have raised it from 40% of the budget base that is guaranteed or determined by the budget law to 50%, meaning specifically from a thousand 330 kuna to a thousand 633 kuna. We also introduced three income classes for child allowance, so what's most important is that I don't go into the details now, most importantly, that about 63,000 children get a bigger allowance for children from January 1st, that around 50,000 children are more covered by child allowance than they were by the end of last year. And as for the most vital supplement, so 500 kuna for each third and fourth children refers, of course, to families or children who are entitled to an allowance for children. So, with our call it a regular allowance for children of families, for example, with four children, so it's best to explain to me, where each child, for example, has the right to a minimum allowance, it's now about 200 kuna, so it's four times 200 and another for the third and fourth children twice 500. So it belongs to the third and fourth children. These are the measures on which the Council for Population Policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which worked on the document, decided because these measures both say demographics and other experts give good results. Of course, it is primarily in our interest to support the constitutional provisions of families with children, young families who want to have children but, of course, to reverse a negative trend in Croatia, a catastrophic trend, and I repeat, we began at the beginning of the mandate. I remind you that's when we increased the birth benefits. We also introduced a program of free textbooks for families with eight and more children. Based on the long-standing cooperation with the Association eight plus, which was led by Mr. Trbuk, an association that brings together families with eight and more children where and as an opposition party supported us, we bought textbooks, it was then initiated by the community of women of the Croatian Democratic Community Katarina Zrinski but then we translated it all into projects of the Government, so based on these good experiences in government projects at the beginning of the term of office 2004 and then we went as you know in this year to expand that project for free textbooks for all students covered by compulsory education. These measures, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, are of course to increase after twelve full years of compensation to families, or to each child born, but also to attach birth benefits to the budget base. And also those one-time fees for the budget base are now 70%. It's a start, the measures continue, of course. There will also be additional measures in this year but, of course, in 2008 and 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81843	Thank you. Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81844	Thank you very much. I especially thank the Minister for the detailed explanation of the rights arising from the application of this law. In fact, we are often witnessing the false interpretation of this change, and it wants to reduce this measure as something that does not contribute among other things to national population policy. I personally believe that this measure makes a significant contribution and all those measures that the Government has adopted so far and that they are being implemented well and successfully in national population policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81845	Thank you. And the last question, respected representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81846	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored colleagues and colleagues, members of the government! My question was addressed to the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Sanader. In fact, I still believe the Croatian public, although it has been three-and-a-half years, remembers that sentence, the wings "Let's Start Croatia", were here today, but I particularly draw attention and remind myself of that. Croatia is as strong as its border areas are. So Osijek-Baranja County is a border area, the town of Osijek as the fourth largest city in the border area. Over three and a half years have passed in the term of this government, so let me ask and ask a question about the city of Osijek with a few notes. The area of the city of Osijek has been mined to the extent that it takes 50 years to demining this dynamic and at this pace. Railway corridor 5C and what we have warned, prayed, kumili countless times, sought is and passed through the city of Osijek. You know how? To remember him in three places in the middle of town. We've asked for denivelation, but there's no denivelation in the next ten years. In the centre of the city a large space, a building space which, with the knowledge of the responsible people, the Croatian Privatisation Fund took from us by force although we warned of counterfeiting. The court dispute is still under way. The land for the economic zone City of Osijek does not have a single economic zone registered in the competent ministry. In September 2005, the deal was with the Prime Minister, Mr. President, with you that the state would assign land to the economic zone. It's not done. We have been offered a non-stop contract extremely unfavourable for the businessmen and cannot be expected to enter into such a thing. So it's not a respected deal. Osijek still doesn't have an economic zone today. I ask you and ask if you will do something to honour the agreement, especially according to the Croatian Government project on the development of the economic zone from 2004 to 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81847	Thank you. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81848	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, you mentioned the motto of this government. On that motto you entered the Croatian Parliament, "Let's start Croatia" and we started it. Therefore, the fact is that you, as a representative from Osijek, were expecting not only these projects you mentioned, but other projects, a whole series of projects that the Government implemented in Osijek through different resolutions to support them. Unfortunately, that support was nothing. When we asked you to support the Croatian Government's projects in Osijek, you voted against it, you voted against the budget, and that's true. We asked you to vote and support the budget in which these projects you're talking about, you voted against, and now you ask the government if we're going to do it. Yeah, I'm talking here. We're gonna do all those projects that are in the budget in different resolutions. We'll take care of them. You're pointing out a special economic zone. Well, it's not like the government needs to open an economic zone in Osijek. Well, it's not like the government opened an economic zone in Dugopol or 200 economic zones in Vukovar, two opening a city with the support of the government. And here I'm telling you, you have our support and everything in the government's domain we'll do. But don't expect us to come to Osijek and we're doing your job back in town.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81849	Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81850	Mr. Sanader, you haven't answered a single question of mine. You answer to the flosculas as many times, you deceive the Croatian public... /The speaker turned off and re-enabled./... but I also left the Croatian Democratic Community not agreeing with your budget, the projections of this government. And as far as the budget is concerned, it's another public deception because I personally didn't vote against the budget. I was looking for projects not only for the City of Osijek but also for Osijek-Baranja County. In September 2005, you firmly promised in accordance with the laws and regulations that you would give land in state ownership as a prerequisite for the design of the economic zone, and even today you allow it to grow there, that it is unprocessed, and that you hold in your possession that same country... to delay all these processes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You allow the Croatian Privatisation Fund and its head man to hole a hole at the Hotel “Osjek” in the center of the city, building land and today by the foundation of counterfeiting to delay court dispute for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81851	Thank you. Current morning is over. Resume at 15.00 hours with the agenda. 3:00 p.m., Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81852	We're continuing the session. Moving to the 1st point of the agenda: 1. Proposal for a law confirming the 2006 Annual Funding Agreement between the Commission of the European Communities on behalf of the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z. No. 611. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure. You received the proposal by mail pursuant to Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget and by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Secretary of State Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81853	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, together with the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Economy, together with the European Commission, the Ministry of Finance has negotiated an annual agreement on the financing of the SAPARD programme, which is, in fact, an international contract concluded by the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So here is the proposal for a law on the confirmation of the 2006 Annual Finance Agreement between the Commissions of the European Communities on behalf of the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What I wanted to say at the beginning of this presentation and give a brief overview of the pre-accession programmes, so this Annual Finance Agreement is actually part of the pre-accession assistance Croatia receives on its way to the European Union. First of all, with the SAPARD program that we know is a programme to support agriculture, we also have Croatia's benefits and the CARDS program, uses the PHARE program and ISPA program. What is important, therefore, to say that the implementation of this SAPARD programme is possible thanks to the positive accreditation of the system for the implementation of this programme, the SAPARD programme in which the European Commission grants us a grant of EUR 25 million. The Agency which manages these funds in Croatia is located in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy under, as SAPARD agencies, and in this respect, together with the State Treasury in the Ministry of Finance over the department of the National Fund, benefits and distributes these funds in accordance with all the rules that have been fully verified during accreditation. I wanted to say that Croatia has actually been in pre-accession programmes since 2001, that the CARDS programs that started in 2002, 2003 and are now very successfully absorbed for 2004. Croatia almost fully exploited all funds, such as CARDS 2002 of 94%, CARDS 2003. 97%. It is currently in the final phase to negotiate the CARDS programme for 2004. This year also ends in the CARDS for 2005. It is therefore the amount per year from around 60 to PHARA 2005 which is EUR 85 million. So it's about very significant means. And of course we have ISPA programs. We know of three very large infrastructure programmes financed from pre-accession programmes, which are therefore railway programmes, part of the railway line between Vinkovac and the state border, so also the Tovarnik and the state border. Then a water collector in Karlovac and dumps in Bikarac. In this respect, the use of these funds is also possible thanks to the successful accreditation of pre-accession, pre-accession systems. As part of the SAPARD programme, therefore, special pre-accession assistance, as I said for agriculture and rural development, is intended in the financial year for EUR 25 million, to which national co-financing is added. The funds will actually be available once the Parliament has adopted and confirmed this law on the validation of the annual financing agreement and, of course, the SAPARD Agency has already started to call for tenders for the allocation of those funds and, of course, we expect domestic farmers to report to this programme and, of course, make full use of it, or to the extent possible, of this amount. What is important to say is that, behind this amount that may not seem so significant, EUR 25 million comes much larger and much more significant funding from the programme when Croatia enters the European Union and will withdraw far more funds from the Structural Funds for agriculture. It should therefore be noted that when Croatia enters the European Union about 3 and a half percent of gross domestic product, they can potentially amount to funds that Croatia can withdraw in one year, which translates into real figures amounts to around 10 billion kuna of grants from the European Union funds. Of course, all advances for the successful implementation and withdrawal of these funds are actually confirmed through accreditation for these all pre-accession funds including the SAPARD programme which this annual agreement is a very important and final part. What should be noted is, of course, that the IPA programme is being opened to Croatia in early 2007. We expect that more funding will be more important in this programme annually, so about EUR 150 million, as will be said by the time it enters the European Union if it is 2009 in the next 3 years, therefore an additional EUR 450 million of grants. And for that, of course, is also a prerequisite system that is able to support and absorb such a thing. What is important for the emphasis, therefore, on this annual financing agreement that negotiations were launched on 12 July 2006 when the government's decision appointed a delegation to conduct negotiations. The negotiations on the Annual Finance Agreement were successfully completed and the European Commission's Finance Ministry adopted a final version last August, adopted by the European Commission on 27 July in Croatia. So Croatia signed the agreement or the government confirmed after the European Commission signed it. The government signed or signed an agreement on 25 October 2006, and the Ministry of Finance prepared a draft draft law on the validation of the annual agreement and submitted it to the public authorities concerned. After all opinions were included, the draft proposal was sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration at the end of November to refer to the parliamentary procedure ratified, thus confirming the 2006 Annual Finance Agreement. Since it is a law whose application is very important, the Government has proposed the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, and in this respect we propose that the Parliament adopt this proposal for an annual agreement, a proposal for a law confirming the annual financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81854	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81855	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, my secretary of state from the SDP's Club of Representatives will support this proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Annual Agreement. However, in this debate, we would like to point out a number of issues where we think that, in future accession talks of the European Union funds, we should make sure that in a more quality way, an attempt is actually made to protect the interests of certain entities in the Republic of Croatia, including the Republic of Croatia, if that is, of course, and to what extent possible, given that it is a two-sided act between us and the European Union. We'll support the request, including an emergency procedure. Because this agreement, i.e. for 2006 is practically signed on 25 October. It should be applied and implemented by the end of 2008. And it is quite clear that time is leaking and needs to be approached as soon as possible by the multi-annual financing agreement that we have, based on which, ultimately, the programme has been co-financed by the SAPARD in this section. The second thing we would like to point out about this is a very interesting question that can be read, especially in Section H. The first thing I want to warn about is actually the question of Articles 2, 4 and 5 as a common problem. For example, if you look at it, you will see that participation in the award of procurement contracts or aid contracts is primarily open to natural and legal persons from the areas of the Member States of the European Community or belonging to the so-called ‘European Community’. Europe's economic area, and yet we have not determined what the European Economic Area means to us, nor has the European Community dealt with it in particular, according to us of course. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Now, what's interesting? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is interesting that this is what they wanted me to or did not want to do is an imbalance in relation to business activity and in the area of our economic investment market. According to our Constitution in Article 49, and in accordance with the end and end of the International Convention on Economic Rights and Freedoms adopted by all members of the European Union, it is actually impossible to limit, apart from the conditions laid down for entrepreneurial freedom. And it is said to be the cornerstone of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia. The state should provide all entrepreneurs with the same legal position on the market for defence of abuse. And they did not want us here, in fact, we have a saying prescribed by the international agreement to restrict such entrepreneurial freedom and all entrepreneurs are not in the same position and in this context it is quite clear that members, or natural and legal persons from the areas of the European Union, are absolutely favored. They're favored from the area of the so-called. the European Economic Area. And those put up by the European Union Committee as developing countries on a special discount. Or, more specifically, everyone else is excluded except for them, except in case of article 5, which I'm going to say something about in particular. In such a situation, the question arises whether it is often not just a matter of conflict with legal rules, but also an issue of economic rationality and justification because it does not mean that at that moment, a natural or legal person with an offer that is more favourable and more quality for the Republic of Croatia could not come from the territory of another country. However, there is now the possibility that Article 5, that in duly supported cases, commissions can extend the acceptability of non-member and non-member countries, this is the exception, but now we have a very interesting situation. With 25m euros, the European Union practically through the SAPARD programme is monitoring our entire programme in this segment, and at the same time it is quite clear that following this programme has not yet provided any funding that will finance the entire programme, but that part of Croatia is also co-financed, of course, by its investments. And in such a situation, the question is now, in fact, how is it possible that only one, one entity of this agreement decides, or one party decides when the exception is acceptable and when it is not. The other party does not have the possibility to participate in the decision, although its interests concern neither the possibility of protecting its rights, but is practically in the position that it must only justify the supported appropriate, appropriate exceptional case in order to even come into view that the Commission supports it. We believe that this is a very important issue that should be addressed in future agreements, they will be in this transitional period while we are having negotiations with the European Union, and it will take great care to further specify the issue in the future. Of course, we do not set the conditions, but we should draw attention to the fact that in this segment, often the representatives of the European Union themselves through such funds are actually being placed as monopolies and deny one of the fundamental principles, the equality of all entities in the European market. Secondly, for us Social Democrats, a particularly important issue on which we would like to highlight is Article 6 of this Appendix, in particular paragraph 2, where it is said that bidders who have been awarded contracts respect international agreements based on standards, basic labour standards, e.g. the foundations of labour standards for the International Labour Organisation, etc., etc. We would be much more pleased if it were written here, not if it were internationally agreed basic labour standards, but if it were international conventions within the framework of an international organisation of work, because it is a much broader concept and a much more comprehensive concept than only international labour standards, then there are both labour freedoms and work and in such a situation, it is far more important to keep in mind. Although there is one qualifying fence here, it is, for example, so it can be considered that everything else implies itself, although it is not because we underline it is not only legal documents but it is talking about standards, and it would be very good to install this issue further to actually protect the more quality social rights of our employees and workers not only when they work in our natural and legal persons, when I say to natural persons it is not a lapus on our craftsmanship here but also when they work with foreign legal and physical persons who, possibly as legal persons in the areas of the European Union, or European economic space, could work in this area, etc. to do business. I would like to mention here that we have absurd things in practice that are happening, and that may happen on projects that are related to our financing of entrepreneurial activities, let alone where they will appear in co-financing with the European Union, that you have, for example, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia legal persons in which they are employed, of course, our people etc. who work, especially in the field of textile industry where management representatives say, for example, when state lawyers, holidays of the Republic of Croatia, say that it is not in their country and that the sea is being worked on that day, and when it is in their country where the headquarters has a firm, a holiday, of course, they do, because they say it is not a holiday, but people never get compensation for what they do in the right way. Therefore, this is a very important issue to actually respect international conventions that regulate the position of workers' rights and work, based on work and work, and in general. The third thing we want to point out is about Article 6(1) and where this is said, I quote: "In order to accelerate the exploitation of poverty by promoting local capacity, market and supply, special attention is given to local and regional procurement in the Republic of Croatia." Now we're asking what this means. We have the Public Procurement Act which is equal and equally binding and equally determines the rights and obligations of all legal entities in the Republic of Croatia as well as the local and regional communities, i.e. local and regional procurement. In fact, the question is why local and regional procurement is now being singled out in relation to the Republic of Croatia. We believe that things should be specified here when it comes to local and regional self-government on the one hand and on the other hand, that such a situation must be the same for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and this way it could be read that, under this agreement, it will be possible to actually protect or favour each other, certain particular interests depending on the area to the Republic of Croatia, depending on the interest and in such a situation that, in fact, through some form of federalism, access to certain economic interests in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That is why we believe that this should simply be specified, that it remains so unspeakable that it cannot be interpreted in a double way or in a more significant way. Why am I particularly stressing this? Because this is an agreement ratified by the Parliament that assumes financial obligations and which, by its legal power, is in line with our legislation above our laws and it must, our laws must be in accordance with it. Therefore, this law, not our Public Procurement Act, will apply, and in this respect, the question is raised suddenly, and in fact with what we are harmonising our legal legislation, with which legal acts with the European Union, our laws for which we receive in the talks and agreements a positive assessment or now amendments to these agreements, are, among other things, changing our own laws. I ask whether, on the basis of these points of view, we will have to change the Public Procurement Act in part. I'm not sure it would necessarily be necessary, but there are also elements that suggest that this issue could be opened as well. And of course the last thing we'd like to point out in particular, is actually the question of this part relating to the achievement of the agreement itself. Look here it is clearly said that the community will automatically abolish the obligation of each part of the obligation provided for in Article 2 of this Agreement if this is not immediately invoiced in order to be charged and no later than 31.12.2008. Why are we paying particular attention to this? Because the experience of all other candidate countries in the EU's approach to different funds and the SAPARD Fund after it was established has shown that these funds are in fact very little use. Among other things, not only because of the lack of programmes, more or less all countries had programmes, but often the implementation projects, the staff, did not have. What we have so far, we have programmes, we have the will and we have provided resources in the state budget for co-financing of these projects, we should work very quickly and quality to actually create expert teams that will help all our interested natural and legal persons, in accordance with the rights and opportunities of the preparation of quality projects that they will be able to be financed and that can be realised to make use of these funds for the economic recovery, growth and development of our country and its rapid approach to the European Union. Of course, this is a significant fact that the accumulative means put in place by the European Union are very important to us as a candidate for a country that practically significantly improves our cumulative capacity, the investment capacity of the country, and in such a situation it is very important that in these areas we do as best as possible. What do I want to say in the end on behalf of our club? Not enough formally legally, of course, the resolution ministries must be in charge of implementing this agreement, but it is not enough to stop at that. We must obviously ask through the economic growth and development programmes of the country in fact the possibility to use these funds, to exploit these funds, to hire state bodies and especially professional organisations and communities and agencies to help the natural and legal persons of the Republic of Croatia first to understand the quality of these funds and secondly, to make better approaches to projects and programmes that must have their formal dimension to formally meet what they are looking for and prescribes by the European Commission in order to be taken into consideration at all and to allow these funds, of course, to be approved by these projects, and then, more importantly, these projects to be realised in order to be able to be realised and charged. In fact, it would be very devastating that after all these political, legal and any other games, work, demands and everything else, at the end of the day, the government and its resolution ministries together with the Parliament would do, and then we wouldn't realize these funds and that our assets would actually fail. That is why we warn and pray, we recommend that the ministries do everything they can to make it happen and realize it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81856	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81857	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry. Allow me to try to bring our vision closer to this proposal for a law confirming the 2006 annual financing agreement between the Commission of the European Communities, on behalf of the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The pre-accession strategy adopted by the European Commission and by the EU Council Regulation provides that the Republic of Croatia may use all 3 pre-accession funds between 2005 and 2006. This is what we heard, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD of the European Union's 245m-euro programme. We are now talking about the SAPARD programme, which is a specific pre-accession programme for agriculture and rural development, which the beneficiary countries are preparing for the implementation of the common agricultural policy. It has already been mentioned that Croatia signed a multiannual financing agreement on 29 December 2004 that entered into force on 6 April 2006. In order for the Republic of Croatia to really start using the SAPARD programme for which the amount of EUR 25 million is foreseen, which is also said here, in addition to the signing of the multiannual agreement, it is also necessary to sign an agreement setting the level of financial resources of the European Community to the Republic of Croatia for 2006 and the period of their use. In its decision of 12 July 2006, the Government of the Republic of Croatia authorised the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Cobankovic and Minister of Finance, Minister Shuker to sign the agreement on 25 October 2006. The signing of the agreement is only now a legal basis for the use of financial resources, the assistance of the European Union from the SAPARD pre-accession programme for 2006. We now, here, have before us in early 2007 a proposal for a law confirming the annual financing agreement for 2006. So we're asking some questions. Why now in 2007 does the Croatian Parliament confirm this Law on the 2006 annual financing agreement when the same agreement was signed in October and could not this proposal have been slightly accelerated during the last session or in October proposed to this Parliament for confirmation? So we're going to speed up the process a little bit because we know that one year of reporting the program is a three-year use of the program. We in the HSS would say "our jobs", we have time, but the European Community already perceived it in another way. It seems that the funds are needed to implement this Law, I am now not to quote articles, but the ministry knows that the error is, that they are foggy and unclearly determined because they are talking about the 2006 funds that are secured in the budget. We know that the calendar year and the fiscal year are over and that these funds are gone. It would be good if that money were reserved or we are now talking about new funds, and I think that this article should correct that in 2007 the funds are being provided in the State budget for the implementation of the 2006 programme. I think that should be reorganised and not put all of us in doubt because it needs to be decoded in the budget and talk about what needs to be done, because we know that 25% of the funds need to be provided by the Republic of Croatia for this. And now, the question arises as to how the Republic of Croatia has prepared itself for all these programmes. Namely, if the measures to be financed by the SAPARD programme were defined by a plan for agriculture and rural development in 2005 and 2006 approved by the European Commission on 8 February 2006, we are, in fact, our Ministry of Agriculture, Forest and Water Economy had a vision of the development of the National Strategy for Agriculture and Fisheries, National Journal 89/02. and translated into long-term, sectoral, strategic development goals. It also speaks of improving the competitiveness, efficiency of primary agricultural, forest and fishing production, improved competitiveness and efficiency of processing, marketed agricultural, forestry and fisheries products, improvements and quality of hygiene standards, additional employment opportunities, to live in rural areas, etc. That it all leads to the rest of the country and all those visions we had. For all of this, however, an action plan rather than just a strategic goal should be drawn up and decided when the measure comes, it means that our ministry will act so that it can be implemented. So the 2002 strategy of the announced 2005 plan where the strategic objectives are set, sectoral objectives have not been developed, and now in 2007 we are talking about the accession of the European Union for 2009, and we are discussing 2006 where only applications are possible which could now be accepted for the use of the SAPARD programme and not more than 12 million kunas. We expect miracles, we expect restructuring, we expect adjustments, we expect fruit sorting, I don't know what, coolant, multi-year plantation, all that. Why sell illusions? It's here that you need to decided and sincerely admit it. We're neither afraid nor ready to use those funds. I'm sorry that there's not a Minister of Agriculture who would listen to all this and confirm it or not to confirm it. Because as much as there was a fight for accreditation and everything, just one comparative. That the foreign ministry that the ministry was quoted as saying that the kindergarten versus the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry managed to make it express and they fought for a whole calendar year to get to such a nomination. And now, I don't know which national official to verify it is, such programs and that, because he has or isn't. Is he appointed? Yes, you're Zigman. ... Great, here, it was good to know that too and that it was decaded and said rather than just there indicated. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it's confirmed that and it's already some kind of security and we have to... Furthermore, the plan for agriculture and rural development suggests, among other things, that SAPHAARD measures will complement the implementation of the national strategy, meaning that the shortages for agriculture and forestry are recognised and will focus on supporting the development of commercial agricultural economies, listen well, 12 million kunas are reported, it will be said to develop and support commercial agricultural economies of competitive food-processing companies through improvement of the market, technological quality and infrastructure, etc. strategic investment in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am now wondering if these measures that are designed to be financed have at all any chance of being realized and what result with those 12 million 600,000 kunas present and if God gives that if this SAPHARD is recognized to us in 2007 that something could happen at all in 2008. Furthermore, it is said that these are specific objectives at the approved priority and for a wonderful miracle the development of the rural economy is a specific objective of strengthening and improving the capacity of agricultural production to which investment in the agricultural holding is measured. Now I'm interested in what an agricultural holding with 500 thousand, 600 thousand seas must do some step if one farm is worth 2 million kuna, 40 cows, and at this time I assure you it is inequitable to this agricultural policy and it is questionable to return that loan in general. And I am now myself and afraid to even talk about the development of agricultural production at this stage of our development and economic justification or other measure, it is a priority to improve market access, a specific objective of strengthening and improving capacity for processing, marketing of agricultural and fishery products. Here I think that the omak ministry has again made it because it is not shellfishers, as if it were not fishing products of some other culture and then improving the processing and marketing of agricultural and fishery products is the only measure for them or in rural development where rural infrastructures create better living conditions in rural areas by improving rural infrastructure, a kilometer of waterway that did not build a kilometer of road, who did not build a footstep or a few other seas to tell someone, but local administration leaders and self-government know what it means to improve the life of a single school, infirmary, kindergarten, all that still needs to be done. And now all these measures are as the main instrument of the SAPHARD programme, as listed as priority. Within the SAPHARD plan for 2005 and 2006 for agricultural and rural development subsidized the view of a wonderful miracle throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia unless otherwise specified. However, in the plan of this, it was also necessary to object that the Law on Agriculture Article 21 on the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to develop a regulation laying down criteria for the establishment of agricultural regions in the Republic of Croatia with a statement of agricultural products which have production competitiveness in a particular region. This was the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in order to be able to run and do such a thing at all. However, as we bring our ministry a Solomon measure, the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia without implementing the targeted measures and all that. I'm asking you what's the priority while we're all the same and we don't know what the criteria are? And now such an example would have been, and if the regions had been established knew where the fruit was produced, where grain is produced, where something else is produced, but now it's also a question whether our public has any information as to how many orchards we have raised, how many vegetables we are not to 2000, but '95. a year so that I would not be called, that someone would not have wrongly accepted me to call some governments or someone, but just what was happening in the Republic of Croatia in the strategy all the time and when it happened. Furthermore, the plan says that the machinery is a priority and equipment for sorting, packaging and processing of fruits and vegetables, warehouses and droughts. I'm interested, and I believe you all together when this equipment that would eventually be obtained will be developed with full capacity, which are capacities etc. Those who produce according to their assessment and who have not entered the programme do not have a safe placement because only by means and from this SAPHARD programme should they be planned, such as the pre-quoted provision improves access to the market and ensures the safety of production. Production security shall be guaranteed at the time when the target customer is known, when the price is guaranteed, when all relevant data are given. Furthermore, in order not to abuse this article now, mostly our Government, our ministry does not respect this article of the law, and it fears the regionalisation of Croatia to find and say that this article must know which region the culture is produced, under what conditions and how. And now to caricate a little further this contribution from the SAPHARD programme is also intended to help agricultural products processors invest in European Union standards for food safety and quality. This is a good thing. Believe me, first we buy technology, buy consulting, their equipment after that, and the question is, do we have any more money? They've secured their market, secured their placement, and they orderly place their resources with us, and we're God-given. If you give us because these are never our resources enough budgets, you must also secure your own resources. It's that remark that's already been made in principle and now, but I guess that's just the way it has to be for someone to give butter and buy it. And now I would still be interested in us all the expensive Unimplemented Agricultural Land Act, which is the same in this priority, which is why for 6 years we have not privatised agricultural land because this is the same condition for the European Union to be equal in accession and entry, and that we are again like a cat around hot porridge walking. The Croatian peasant party has clear reserves, however, each kuna, each dollar is welcome and with a little more goodwill and attention would be better masters than if we were just servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81858	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81859	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Mr. Representatives! This is about 25 million euros. However, the key provision of this Article 14 on page 10 is that the rules for the supply of services, goods and works by public authorities in Croatia are transparent, non-discriminatory and do not give rise to any conflict of interest. It is further stated that the rules laid down in the Commission's manual of rules and procedures for contracts for services, goods and works financed from the general budget of the European Communities for cooperation with third countries are consistent. However, requests for prior approval by the Commission included in this Regulation shall not apply. It is also said under 262. The goods and materials that are the subject of the procurement originate from the communities or countries listed in Section H. However, procurement procedures initiated after accession to the European Union shall be conducted in accordance with the legislation of the clear community. Therefore, the emphasis of this whole Act on confirming the annual financing agreement for 2000 between the European Communities Commission on behalf of the European Community is on the transparency of public procurement which should not give rise to any discrimination against anyone. I'm saying it in a way and in the context of so-called. Handball law, wondering if the Republic of Croatia could lose any of these loans if it conducts a discriminatory procurement procedure, for example, when assigning construction jobs from some halls. In order not to be imprecise, I am 100% for the handball law that would shorten construction deadlines, which would shorten appeal deadlines, answers to complaints, and to make it clear that the consequences of an unfounded competition will fall on the burden of the objectors. But I am also 100% against avoiding any existing segment of public procurement, getting undeniable from the other side that the mayors are the so-called that executive power is for as much freedom as possible in disposing of money. So, what would I suggest? That existing deadlines should be reduced rather than some special interventions in some new laws. I will no longer discuss this law except to say that at this time it is safe to hold the World Handball Championship in Croatia under question and that it will most likely be 2009. Athens, not Zagreb, Varazdin, Osijek, Split, Poreč, Zadar was to host this world spectacle and, as I said, only to deny the deadlines and go to writing not specifically, but to rewrite existing laws with short deadlines. Okay. Now let's let it go. Croatia, as we see in this legal text, has the right to 245m euros in these three pre-accession funds. So 245 million euros times 7.4. That's a billion and 800 million kuna. It's certainly not insignificant money. That's the value of six of these controversial halls, even more, with all the accompanying clear infrastructure. We see here that from the PHARE programme in 2005 and 2006. The Republic of Croatia can count or better withdraw these 80m euros from the ISPA programme can withdraw 35m euros and can withdraw 25m euros from the SAPARD. This means a total of 245m euros or a billion and 800m kuna. On page 1 of this proposal of the Law confirming this year's financing agreement between the European Commission and Croatia, it is literally said that this memorandum regulates the obligations and responsibilities of the National Fund, the mutually related national fund and implementing bodies, and the rights and obligations of the bodies and persons participating in the implementation of the pre-accession assistance programme of the European Union. Furthermore, the memorandum provides for the competence of the National Fund for the overall financial management of the funds received from the European Union, insurance obligations, co-financing of the project, reporting obligations on the funds used, monitoring of the work of the implementing bodies as well as many other issues relevant to the administrative, technical implementation of these aid programmes, a finalised quote. So can giving up, say, such a common procedure challenge Croatia's already approved funds? I think that's the point. I want to believe that not because we don't know each other now I'm talking about a handball, but it has now given up, otherwise the European Union itself is probably more credible when someone else is concerned than she is alone, so let's say the Government of Great Britain led by Blair openly transferring $12 million to Switzerland for secret accounts of the Tanzanian government knowingly corrupt that power and nothing but what is good to the Swiss but not only them, but for several years they've been working on returning the money robbed and deposited in their vaults. So why don't you say Croatia would also ask for the return of what was robbed from these areas? All in all this law that is before us today is not controversial, Croatia needs money, Croatia needs these 25m euros as well. That must be something when I'm comparing everything to that handball. It is, for example, a hall in Osijek or two halls in Zadar, or two halls in Poreč. But the point is in the next. Whether the SAPARD money, the 25m euros will finally be distributed fairly. When I say it honestly then I think that these investments are treated in a way more or less, more regions than that all of them are just left in one or two. It's a good thing it's about the free money. It's the best thing that can happen to get you such a loan but then let's be fair after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81860	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81861	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a common false allegation that the Croatian state is conducting a discriminatory procedure for conducting competitions for the construction of sports halls. We have heard a hundred times that the Croatian state will not conduct the competitions at all, that the halls are building cities where the World Cup will be held, but I do not know what the aim is in fact the frequent carrying out of false allegations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81862	Thank you. On behalf of the club HSP, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81863	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! So the HSP Club believes it is a good thing that the draft law on the confirmation of the 2006 annual financing agreement between the European Community Commission on behalf of the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the final proposal for a law. In fact, by analyzing it closely, it is clear that we finally need to learn some lessons from this, let's call the negotiation and conclusion of such agreements. The first thing that is visible and what we need to ask ourselves when the proposal for this agreement is being analysed is the question of whether we are even negotiating about it or whether this case is like in everyone else take it or leave it. I think this is a situation take it or leave it. On behalf of the European Community, the Commission gave its terms, its rules. And if we do, then we can get the funds from those pre-accession funds. Namely, it is precisely visible when the provisions are analysed. And the second problem is immediately created regarding this first claim. So another lesson we have to learn. It is visible how the Commission protects the interests of members of the European Union. If the funds are then known to be the rules of conduct in order to protect the interests of its members and that it will happen with a wave that in all these situations where it is necessary to consult, whether these are personnel, other things that will benefit their citizens, or persons, legal persons, companies that are within the framework of the members of the European Union and nothing else cannot be taken into account. Thirdly, on the one hand, we are harmonising legal regulations, meaning our laws with the acquiss of the European Union and where we have precise rules on how and in what way you do. And on the other hand, we make this agreement, we confirm it here in the Croatian Parliament. The agreement has power over the law and it is evident that Damir has misjudged those handball halls. It is visible here that the European Community, or the Commission, protects that part of it, will say that the rules in all of this will be different from the rules that are in the Member States and that Croatia, as such, has accepted in its law on procurement or other laws which are as such in line with the legal gains of the European Union, because in this agreement where they say you can use the funds under these conditions, but in full terms, they protect the interests of their members and then, in that part, when they give these funds, they do not care whether our laws are in this section in line with the legal gains of the European Union, but rather, they give us rules that their companies or legal persons or individuals who report that they will be protected from the legal rules that Croatia as such in their legislation have, which is as such and consistent with the legal gains of the European Union, which are also spoken to workers and to all other situations. And the worst lesson now is that we have to get one last lesson at the end that we can no longer get these bill proposals without one guarantee of the withdrawal of funds, and that means that exactly in the bill we have in the assessment of what is done, which is to be done so that these funds from pre-accession funds can be withdrawn because they are true, certain deadlines depending on which programme you can withdraw and the rules are quite rigorous, if you pass the deadline you don't have invoices, it's over, write home has failed. In relation to what was on the Committee with us for legislation, the secretary of state presented a little wider that part of which I spoke on behalf of the Croatian Party's Club of Rights. In fact, it's likely to happen to us when we're using our options, and we need to be careful that this is a possibility that we can use funds from pre-accession funds. But from the possibility, this is a big step, so the possibility is as defined here. Now it takes a lot of doings to get those funds back and back. It means programs good, implementing programs, everything that needs to be done. Now, what happens if all these competitions are there, but if all of this doesn't work out will happen to us then we won't be able to withdraw, as the situation is clear with other current members of the European Union who are having the same problems, we were in Slovakia and everywhere else, so we saw how and in what way, what problem they had in Slovenia as well, so we need to take advantage of those experiences, and when we go to that part of designing from the level of law for the level of us within Croatia, it means immediately to predict everything exactly how and in what way to commit everything to avoid the situation you have but you won't be able to use it because you haven't done everything you need to do. And it's particularly important here when we talk about this SAPARD programme about the situation in Croatian agriculture, and we know for ourselves what the situation is, that we are a country of food importers and not a country of food exporters, that the ratio of, say, 16 billion kuna to how much food is spent in Croatia per year, so about 12 billion is about imported food. Therefore, we will not get far this way because we must also create assumptions for strengthening Croatian agriculture on the one hand. It is a condition that a Croatian farmer can behave on the market. That's where we're late, and then you'll see it mainly in the context of the possibilities you have, but you won't be able to use it for these programs. And I think that in the future, it would be better to say these agreements still defend the home ministry which will play a higher role in the task and implementation than just the Ministry of Finance, because then we could talk a little deeper and deeper and more implementingly about what has been done, we know where the problems are and what is expected not to happen to those variations that we will have the right to have, but we will not be able to use it because we have not done what the Commission or the European Community is asking us to do. That's the problem, and I think it's a good thing that we get these lessons out of this one agreement so that we don't come into a situation like this or something in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81864	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81865	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, we discussed the proposal for this law and the agreement between the European Commission on behalf of the European Community, the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the level and manner of use of the European Community's financial resources for the SAPARD programme and we believe that all the conditions are met so that the Assembly can confirm this agreement. Namely, the Republic of Croatia could indeed start using the SAPARD programme, which envisions EUR 25 million to be spent in these two years, 2007 and 2008, was necessary to sign the Funding Agreement. This has been done and the agreement was signed on 25 October 2006. Confirmation of the Agreement constitutes a legal basis for the use of the European Union’s financial resources, which we should certainly use to the greatest extent possible. This is especially because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has so far carried out all advances so that the implementation system of the Agreement can operate in accordance with European Union rules. To this end, the following working bodies and committees have been established. First, the national certification officer responsible for the financial management of pre-accession funds of the European Union. Next, the National Fund, which is an organisational unit with the Ministry of Finance and is tasked with effectively managing financial resources in accordance with international commitments. The SAPARD Agency shall then, within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, carry out the tasks prescribed by the provisions of the Agreement. It shall then be established as a department of the Ministry of Finance which confirms the financial reports on the management and control system and shall verify the co-financing elements and which is independent of the SAPARD Agency. The Administrative Directorate, which is responsible for the effectiveness and accuracy of the report on the evaluation of the Agriculture and Rural Development Plan, is then established and acts in the composition of the Ministry of Agriculture. And the Monitoring Committee responsible for monitoring the effectiveness and quality of the implementation of the programme. The establishment and tasks of these bodies need to be cited in order to see what has already been done so far in order to make use of the funds from the pre-accession European Union funds and how we must do everything we can to implement it. We need to be realistic and not let these European Union funds slip away or be exploited in the best possible frameworks because of procedural or any other reason. In view of the nature of the procedure, the confirmation of the international agreements under the Agreement, which also formally expresses the willingness to be tied to the signed international contracts, and that, at this stage of the procedure, we propose that this proposal be adopted by means of an urgent procedure uniting first and second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81866	Thank you. Does the final secretary of state want it? Here you go, Zigman, Ante Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81867	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you for a very fruitful debate and for supporting this law. I would like to briefly actually refer to what the MPs during the debate referred to parts of this law or agreement that is confirmed. First of all, when we talk about public procurement, about the use of pre-accession funds, it is logical, in fact, that the European Commission, which grants grants to the Republic of Croatia here in the amount of EUR 25 million, will, at the moment Croatia enters the European Union as part of the Structural and Cohesion Funds, rise to a billion and a half. It is therefore logical that it imposes certain rules on the implementation of procurement procedures or how certain projects will be accepted and what will be their quality and content? Of course, in this regard, it should be said that the use of EU funds is primarily dependent on the quality of the system that is being set out in a particular country, that is, the necessary part, and that a sufficient part of the actual use of pre-accession programmes is part of the quality, the possibility that the system, i.e. citizens or businesses and individuals can apply to the competition and satisfy the conditions. It's about the following things. Why are the SAPARD programs poorly used? First, very often because there is not enough information. Because the agency and the system are not sufficiently high-quality and as a third reason very often are unregulated papers and lack of quality projects. In this case, Croatia has taken a number of measures. First of all, the system is in place. The system is accredited. There are therefore all relevant factors in the system from the implementing agency which is the SAPARD Agency to the managing body which is also in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy to the National Fund of the Ministry of Finance which is able to absorb and use funds from the European Union. What do you need to do? On the request of the MPs I will answer therefore that it is necessary to give as much positive information as possible to the public on these possibilities. The competition will be continuously open. The deadline, as you have seen, is very decadent, December 31st, 2008, as far as it seems today, comes very quickly if all these procedures are respected and you want to do a complete job by the rules. Therefore, to make use of these funds, and to use the Structural Funds later, it is important not only to prepare the administration and the system that the government has already done. It is therefore essential that all citizens and all individuals, or all businesses involved in this system, and who need to use these funds are actually ready to use these funds. The Ministry of Agriculture is on the initiative and the Ministry of Finance which, therefore, I would also say why is the Ministry of Finance showing up here? Because the Ministry of Finance is all responsible for the use of pre-accession funds and is therefore the competent authority of the SAPARD Agency. And in this sense it is requested that as much as possible at local level and therefore at the level of both lower and, therefore, through various other activities in the public, we think of newspaper articles, radio shows and so on as much as possible, propagating and promoting the SAPARD programme and that the response to the competition that will be published by the Ministry of Agriculture will be as good as possible. And, of course, in that sense, in a way that is more quality inside than the first set of projects that will be acceptable and according to the rules laid down by the European Union. Do public procurement laws need to be amended? No, I don't. The public procurement law does not need to be changed. It will be changed in the second derogation in the context of amending the law on aquis adjustment, i.e. the acquis of the European Union but not because of the SAPARD programme. In any case, I thank you for the debate and I thank you for most clubs, and in this case I hope that this will be supported by this whole bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81868	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81869	We're going to vote on the laws discussed. Final proposal of the Law on the validation of the 2006 annual financing agreement between the Commission of the European Communities. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is on behalf of the European Community. The amendments were submitted to the Committee on Legislatives and Representatives Nevenka Majdenic. State Secretary Ante Zigman, please choose to show yourself to the amendment of MP Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81870	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81871	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81872	The government does not accept the amendment with the reason that the previous amendment corrected the error proposed by the Committee on Lawmaking by the fact that the previous amendment was also covered in 2008 which was crucial since the SAPHARD programme was used both in 2007 and in 2008 and is therefore... to provide funds for 2007 and 2008 in the budget as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81873	Thank you. There's no representative of the board, so we'll vote. Who's up for that amendment? Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 10 for, 5 abstentions, 64 against. Thank you very much. The amendment didn't go through. We're going to vote on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 84 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the proposed Law together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81874	Moving to 2nd item of the agenda. Proposal for a law on national measurement and real estate, with a final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 612; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, Spatial Regulation and Environmental Protection, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Local and Areaal, Regional Self-Government and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Secretary of State Davor Snotty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81875	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, seven years before you, there's a new Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Realty. So, in 1999, this House adopted the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, which we had arranged after 25 years, began to edit the issue of cadastre, the translation of cadastres from land, the tax cadastre into a modern catastre, a real estate cadastre, and we started in turns with projects to coordinate catastres and land books. This law, i.e. and today's current law has arranged other areas were established at the time by the Croatian Geodetic Institute. An authorised engineer was introduced in geodesy according to the Chamber Act, which was also established and followed by law enforcement we have come to know and given also some other changes that occurred in society by changing various foundations of the advanced technological process in the cataster, by increasing the real estate market especially in some areas that are interesting to investors that this law needs to be refreshed, amended, complemented. Given the extent to which the law is refreshed and complemented, the new law has become much better and more transparent and because of its users and citizens themselves. Thus, this law now detailedly regulates the procedure of cadastral measurement and technical reambulation, and the conduct of civil servants and authorising officers as well as the rights and obligations of all participants in the procedure. Special consideration shall be given to the handling during the presentation of data from the cadastar measurement, i.e. technical reambulation. An expression is prescribed for the maintenance of a cadastrian catastra opera. Furthermore, the law also introduces one or more cadastrian particles from the land cadastre to the real estate, the criteria and way of transforming it, as well as the treatment of land books in order to ensure the uniformity of the procedure. This paper is very important in this law and it is the consequence of and linking it with this recent amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights that this Parliament adopted at its last session last year when a controversial trust was introduced in the Earth Book to speed it up now, and the Katastre is the support of that because the list A in the grantovnica is always in, according to this law and in the future or in the single database is in the jurisdiction of the cadasar while for the B and C list means ownership and burdens taken care of by the grantovnica. Today, we went one way to speed up the fact that we do not have to wait every time to make decisions for new measurements for the entire Catastrian municipalities and individual particles at the request of natural persons, legal persons or units of local self-government one, two, three or ten particles can go into transformation and enter immediately into a single database that is being established according to this project, a regulated country which is here this last year very successfully assessed by the World Bank and is really being implemented in all ways. As you can see you can already access the portal and see information about your properties. One of the newspapers, and according to the inpar directive, is the introduction of national spatial data infrastructures as a set of measures, norms, specifications, services aimed at setting up an E-Government to enable effective collection, management and time-consuming of various spatial and other data that are necessary today in all branches of particularly spatial arrangement, maritime goods, planning, implementation and investment. So, the issue of performing the tasks of authorised geodesys is further regulated, the structure of the State Geodesy Administration and the Croatian Geodesy Institute are arranged, and they are in line with the moment of time and needs that occur in practice and in the field, so we noticed in the structure of the State Geodesy Administration itself that, apart from the regional offices, there is also a need to step up and outposts so that certain exposures will be carried out in certain parts of the complete service, those which are normally done by the field office. And somewhere we'll only limit ourselves to that because it's not necessary, because it's not that kind of business, and it's hard to reach civil servants. We have to say that the geodetic profession is now one of the most employed in Croatia, that there is 100% employment especially in these companies that are on the market, so these exposures will do a small part of the work depending on territory and the needs of the territory. Data storage of national measurement and real estate catastra shall be arranged. There is a special establishment of a digital cadastrian database as part of a future information system of land books and catastras, the supervision of the work of cadastrian works is strengthened and greater powers are given to the geodetic inspection in order to ensure the quality of its services on the ground and this has been observed. Also, some other things have been specified as one of the important things that we haven't had in law so far. She was worth more as a rule of profession. But here, now we've legalized it. The law determines exactly when a particular building can be entered into a cadastre. So far, the foundations and everything and everything have been signed in, and we didn't even know what the foundation was, whether it was the building, when it was written in. It is now known that when the first floor is built, of course, with a building permit and if someone lives in such a facility, then this facility will for the first time be entered into the cadastre. It is also an obligation that so far we have not had in law, which is that all rightholders of real estate are obliged to report changes in the cataster within 30 days of the change in real estate. This is very important, very important for us to have a consistent system in the future and to be able to manage the data. So on the owners, the real estate brokers are to report a change of real estate within 30 days themselves. If they do not, they will, according to their knowledge, do so by the competent cadastrian office on the cost of the owner, i.e. the owner of that property. We hope and think that this will also strengthen the responsibility of all citizens, stronger both around ownership and around all this data because people are getting more and more up-to-date. But we think that we're also going to encourage particularly legal persons, these big legal people who own a lot of, a lot of real estate, and they're pretty sloppy compared to their records in cataster and land books. Here, that would be short on the law. I hope you support him. It is in line with all that we needed to bring it into line with the European Union and one modern law I think we can move on to further editing this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81876	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Dear Representative Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81877	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question as the home working body. In his opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposed law, as well as the proposed law, was adopted by a number of significant newspapers, especially in the section relating to the real estate and land cadastre, the individual transformation of land cadastre data into a real estate cadastre. The establishment of national spatial data infrastructures and the definition of organisational and qualification conditions that must be met by legal and natural persons shall be authorised to carry out the tasks of the state measure and the real estate catastra. The proposed law also lays down the conditions for implementing the provisions of Article 33, 388. Laws on ownership and other real rights resulting in the need to pass this law by emergency procedure. The Committee discussed and discussed the proposal for an amendment of the Croatian Chamber of crafts on Articles 103 and 161. Those amendments propose equating natural persons, craftsmen and entities with the right, legal persons, or companies in the conduct of state measurement and real estate catasters, and extend the scope of transactions which would be authorised by natural persons to carry out a state measure and a property catastra under the applicable law, which are not authorised engineers can continue to carry out permanently. The proposed amendments were not accepted by the applicant. The debate on the Committee supports the adoption of this law, which will remove a series of problems identified in the application of the applicable law, and also ensure compliance with the acquis of the European Union. Regarding the proposed amendments to the Croatian Chamber of crafts, the view was expressed that the proposed law of the section of craftsmen with medium professional training, which are otherwise geodetic technicians do not take the right to work and does not reduce entrepreneurial freedoms, pointed out that it is necessary to define the conditions and that qualifications and organisations that need to be met for the performance of public measurement and real estate cataracts, since this clearly defines responsibility, ensures professional work, and geodetic activity set up according to European standards. In this respect, it has been assessed that the Croatian Chamber of crafts is not acceptable to extend the scope of transactions that could continue to be permanently performed by natural persons authorised to carry out the tasks of the state measure and the real estate cadastre under the applicable law, which are not authorised geodesy engineers. The Committee also attended several geodesys related to defined conditions, and the scope of transactions which non-authorised geodesy engineers may propose the introduction of the concept of authorising officers in a legal person registered for the conduct of state-measured and catastra real estate affairs. Those powers would allow them to continue to carry out tasks which are currently authorised under the obligation to sign compulsory liability insurance. It is expressed as follows that the provisions of Rule 122 define the tasks to be carried out by the State Geodesy Administration in the Catastrian District Offices resulting in those administrations being placed on the market. While on the other hand restricts entrepreneurship by putting craftsmen in an unequal position on the market. During the debate, the question of the deadlines and costs of implementation of the real estate reform was raised, pointing to the need for regular audits of the catastra in order to increase the quality and accuracy of the services provided. It has been pointed out that this proposal for a law is not outside the scope of the Regulation amending the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, which is otherwise published in the "National Journal" 142 of 2006, and that, in that sense, it is necessary to regulate the expression in the transitional and final provisions. It is also noted that, in the light of Article 161 of the proposed article, it is incorrect to state the time limit in which natural persons who have acquired the right to perform public measurement and real estate cadastres and who are not authorised geodesy engineers can continue and carry out a certain part of the work permanently. In the debate, part of the committee members represented the view that, because of those provisions which did not, for which no consensus was reached by all interested parties on the proposed law should be discussed in two readings, but the majority of the committee members supported the adoption of the law by an urgent procedure. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on State Change and the Catastro Realty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81878	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the distinguished representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81879	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 72nd session held on 23 January 2007 discussed the proposal for a law on national measurement and cadastre, with the final proposal for a law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 21 December 2006. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the debate, the Committee supported the solutions set out in the final draft of the law, in particular those harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. After the debate, the committee unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt the State Measurement Act and the Real Estate Cataster in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81880	Thank you. The Justice Committee, honourable representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81881	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers of State, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 51st session held on 23 January 2007 the proposal for a law on state measurement and a cataster of real estate, with the final proposal for a law. The Committee discussed the law in question as an interested working body, but in the section relating to the work of the Committee. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the six-year application of the State Measurement and Cataster law pointed out the need to actually comply with the law in particular with the implementation segment, the translation of land cadastre data into the real estate catastra, the establishment of the cataster information system and land books, the adaptation to a number of regulations that have an impact on the geodetic catastrian system of adaptation to the requirements of the European Union. Given the amount of change, a new law has been adopted. The proposed law regulates the most important issues, hence the cataster measurement procedure, the construction and maintenance of a cadastrian real estate operator in accordance with other regulations is prescribed. The recast of cadastral particles from land cadastre to real estate, the national infrastructure of spatial data is introduced, transactions are prescribed to be entrusted to legal and natural persons authorised to carry out state measurement and real estate operations, the structure and operations of the State Geodetic Administration and the Croatian Geodetic Institute, the creation of a digital cadastrian database as part of the future common information system of land books and catasters, and the work of geodetic inspection is strengthened. In the debate, most members supported the adoption of the law, noting, of course, its importance. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice decided, with 7 votes in favour of and one abstention, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Realty.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81882	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81883	Mr. Vice-President, the esteemed secretary of state, and perhaps this law is a little premature, first we go to the former article 120 from the first reading, has now become Article 122, now not to specify what it is, as it says in the field offices of the cadastre, the following jobs are being done and now it is said that the establishment and maintenance of the property catalogue, the implementation of supervision, the marking of land borders, and then the release of real estate data, land cadastres, performances and transcripts, confirmations and beliefs of the regional registers of spatial units and catasters, the provision of geodetic services, etc. etc. but what is far more important, Article 123, which reads that the territory offices of the cadastre may carry out the tasks referred to in Article 122 of the Law referred to in point 1 to 10 and in paragraph 3 of this Regulation, shall determine which of the tasks referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be carried out in a particular exposure. It is certainly far better than what we had in our first reading, that the district offices, for example. Here's a Buzet, one Buje or what I know, Poreč, I can only do the jobs referred to in point 1 of Article 8 of Article 122. This would be the release of data from the cataster of real estate and land cadastres carrying out transcripts, certificates, beliefs of the regional registers of spatial units and catasters, which would de facto turn them into the most ordinary offices. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Is that, for example? may mean that, for example, one Buzet or one Poreč or one Bujam may be taken or can only be aware of what this point provides for, for example, Article 122, paragraph 8(1). If that were to happen, I think it would be a disaster, in one word it can't happen. One buzzet, bupski, etc. I want to believe that this will not happen even though a lot of those leaders of these cadastres called me in the meantime and warned me of such a possibility. I claim that, among other things, these catastrian offices have made some progress, I would say in certain areas. I'll just say one thing, that in the joint business in County of Istrian construction and real estate trade it participates with 8.8%. I am and I am not happy or happy about it, but it says enough what the size of the business is, if we have information that tourism according to the data of the Chamber of Commerce in the total income of the County of Istria is represented by 10%. Trade with 29%, industry in the first place with a billion and $50 million exports with 33%. So, what I'm saying is, don't touch the catastra network, whether it's the County of Istria, the Primorje-Gorski or anyone else. Personally, I also want to believe that it won't happen because it would be a disaster, but keeping in mind now that first-reading law might even have to blow cold. But there's another, I don't know, problem that's being warned by some geodetics about an authorised engineer. So, I got a recent e-mail from Mr. Simunović, it seems to me, from Cres and then says that about 250 companies and crafts will have to close down, so he says, offices because they don't have an authorised engineer, and on the other hand, authorised engineers at this point are not even on the market. He says further, as we've all done so far, at the age of 20, 25 with a state exam, we're suddenly losing our right to work, with the Constitution guaranteed. Furthermore, there are not enough geodes in the Republic of Croatia to make the transformation from land cadastre to real estate and other problems in the Republic of Croatia. I have the signatures of about 400 geodesys that are against this law, which is about 50% of the total geodesy. If you can help, thank you very much. The hearty greeting, Simunović, in addition to the amendment, and I will now move on to them, although literally in Article 161(2), says that natural persons authorised to carry out the tasks of state-owned real estate cadastra under the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, which are not authorised by geodesy engineers referred to in Article 104(2), may continue to carry out the tasks referred to in Article 104(2) of this Act under the headings 3, 5, 7 and 8, which are then the following jobs. Making pitches and other geodetic elaborates of land, making elaborate catastra words, creating situational designs for objects for which there is no need to build geodeticly, making a pardon, geodetic project and excavating buildings. However, a whole series of these jobs are made impossible by such a bill. What does Mr. Simunovic literally state in front of these 400 geodes? He says: "There are around 780 authorised geodesy engineers in the Republic of Croatia. Out of that, about 200 authorised station engineers, about 120 have authorised geodesy engineers' offices, about 350 operate them through the company "d.o."and about 110 were employed by the state services. The total number of individual categories means 780." So there are so many authorized engineers. In addition, 87 companies with limited liability are operating on the market, with a small part of which has about 125 for commercially authorised geodesy engineers. It follows from the above that there is no possibility for some 50 companies with limited liability to find an authorisation on the labour market. All 87 companies also have unstable status by being tied to an authorised engineer in a way that the same companies cease to exist under the new proposed law if the authorised engineer leaves or otherwise stops working in the company. Currently, about 37 companies have such an unstable position, and the other 50 are not at all able to employ an authorised engineer from which 50 of them would have to shut down their activity under the new law. The source of the information "Geodetic Informor". He continues to say, "We believe that the shut-down of the companies concerned would have taken place as an unacceptable, unwanted precedent and would have brought into question the legal uncertainty of the individual in the time in which he daily calls for a private self-employment initiative, etc., etc. Finally, we would like to draw attention to the fact that the State Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Croatia is familiar with the names of members of an informal group of geodetics who are seeking the adoption of these amendments to the proposal for a law on the state measure of the cataster of real estate." Now, does it make sense to read all the amendments? I would ask Mr. Vice President to give us a little longer time to bear them not until the end of the debate on this item of the agenda than to have it by tomorrow morning, but I will at least not read them like this but actually read this argument. In the case, he says, not to accept the above amendments, not to go now for the amendment, I repeat again, you will find yourself in a situation where about 50 owners of companies carrying out geodetic activities will be forced to fire their employees. How each of these companies has about 5 employees is about 250 people who will be out of a job. The figure represents almost half of the total number of employees in private Croatian companies in the area of geodetic activities. If we consider that these are mostly fathers who feed their families, it becomes clear that they will be questioned by almost a thousand people. Professional reasons, a total of about 450 to 500 legal entities dealing with geodetic activities, including colleges and water industry and forestry, etc. The proposal for a new law puts 50 companies at risk once again. Furthermore, authorised engineers have about 650. That figure needs to be rejected by those with a standstill status of two hundred and so we come to the point that somewhere around 250 people from 50 companies can count on them to be out of a job. I know this law calls for P.Z.E., so it's a European law. But also this one, by quotes, calls itself an informal group of geodesys, mentions that Slovenia kept its geodetics in the status they were at the time of the adoption of the Law. They also mention that it was done by Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany at the time of the DDR's integration. So, I don't know what to say. Let's think clearly about what we're doing. No one has the right to shut down 50 offices, question perhaps the existence or fate of 250 geodes. No one must leave them without bread, no one can take away their job even though it should be fair, mention Article 161(2), i.e. these points 3, 5, 7 and 8 which allow them to be called part of these geodetic jobs, and these are the decrees of parseclative and other geodetic elaborates of land under the 5th design of the water catastrahs, the design of situational plans for objects for which no geodetic project should be built... The building, however, is now a question of whether it is enough for this under quotes "experience" on the market and whether they will manage to preserve those activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it doesn't guarantee these people this Law then I think it would be wise to extend it for a more future period when we're going to give these people a new chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81884	Thank you. As regards the amendments, you must still submit them by the end of the debate, says Article 164. Rules of Procedure. It'll take two, two and a half hours for you to have time. Club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, distinguished representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81885	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community considers that the Proposal for a Law on State Measurement and a catalogue of real estate regulates matters of interest for the Republic of Croatia whose arrangement is not to be postponed because delaying the adoption of this Act would make it difficult to implement other laws governing the issue of ownership and other rights. In addition, this Law is at the same time in line with the European Union's legal legislation, so we support its adoption in an emergency procedure. On the state of the state of the system of national measurement and the cataster of real estate and the implementation of the applicable law, I would point to the following. In 1999, the Law on State Measurement and Real Estate Catastrophe of the Croatian Assembly adopted the aim of making state scale and cadastre an efficient state infrastructure and a driver of change for the production of real estate cadastres as the basis for the regulation of land books, i.e. the regulation of ownership and registration in land books, as is usually the case everywhere in the world, and also for us from ancient times. Over the past seven years, the current law has made it possible to make a significant step in reforming the state-level measurement system and the real estate catastra and to launch the land-book reform. Thus, during the past period, it was based primarily on the programme of state measurement and real estate for the period 2001/2005. The Croatian Parliament, which was brought by this Croatian Parliament, reached the following: cadastral measurements were launched for areas where the condition of catastrian operatives and land books was so bad that it was necessary to restore the operates thoroughly. The location selection was conducted on several basiss. The measure is... in the county centres, more important cities, on islands, in the coastal belt, in the Neretva River valley, then the measurement was made for the construction of state agricultural land and for the locations specially selected for the land-books and catastra project co-financed from the World Bank loan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Based on all these bases, cadastral measurements were launched for 164 catastrian municipalities at 300 thousand hectares of land. It is only 6% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I purposely point out in our debate that these problems will keep the Republic of Croatia in this state for another 15 to 20 years. We have no financial resources, no capacity to measure the whole of the country in one medium-term development, create a real estate cluster and restore all land books. Just to let you know that there are 3,000 and 350 catastrian municipalities in the Republic of Croatia with 17 million cadastrian particles. So it's a huge and statistical one, but here it's a cadastrian or land record that's impossible overnight or available power, and I believe that we would not get better results from what we get by working with our own forces and our own resources. Therefore, the state-of-the-art of state agricultural land covers the next 100,000 hectares of the most valuable agricultural land that could not be effectively used so far. A central database of a written part of a catastrian operator was established in the Office of State Administration for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, which enabled the release of cadastrian data browsers on the Internet. How important progress is enough to stress that the average daily data base uses about 15 thousand users certified, registered. The vectorisation of the cadastrian plans that we in the Republic of Croatia have had has been launched. More than 30,000 has been vectored so far. A new Croatian geodetic reference system and cartographic projection have been established in line with the European frameworks and needs of modern society. Topographic design and production has been accelerated, 448 out of 594 lists of topographic maps in scale 1 versus 25 thousand were made. The result is that the former state was very little in the territory of the Republic of Croatia doing these measurements and doing maps and we actually took over only the minimum of these data, and in fact everything that was done was done during this country. The construction of a 15,000 digital ortho photo map has been launched, which has proved to be an extremely useful background in all projects, planning areas and economic foundations. So far, about 80% of that work has been completed. All existing cadastar bases for which the State Geodetic Administration is responsible have been scanned so that all of them can be obtained digitally today. There's no need to carry any big plans or lists or records anymore. You get one floppy and enter it into your computer in your office and continue to work with modern appliances and means available today. The Republic of Croatia actively participates and contributes to joint projects of the European Geodetic Administrations, such as making maps of administrative borders in scale 1:1000 000 and maps of the regions of Europe in scale 1:250 000. All these indicators speak of exceptional activity in the state-of-the-art situation and in the catastro. In order to ensure that all these activities can be implemented, the State Geodetic Administration and the Catastrian Administration, the Croatian Geodetic Institute and the established system of licensed natural and legal persons for the performance of state measurement and catastra real estate activities have been reorganised. Today, the State Geodetic Administration, the Croatian Geodetic Institute and about 500 authorizeds, and this is a safe data that is a well-organized part of the state administration and part of the economy in the area of geodesia. The application of the law over the past seven years has shown that there have been difficulties in implementing certain parts of it. This primarily refers to the speed of translation of land cadastre data into the real estate cadastre, the establishment of a real estate and land book information system, the transfer of certain transactions to local self-government units, the efficiency of the work of the geodetic inspection. In the past seven years, new and amended laws have been passed, which have a significant impact on the geodetic catastrian system and have shown the need to comply with the applicable law with these laws. In particular, this applies to the Law on Land Books and the Law on Property and other real rights in which the provisions of Article 388 are a matter of partial trust in the truthfulness and completeness of land books for those cadastrian municipalities for which the EOP land book is opened as well as for the properties entered into the land data base under the Law on Land Books. In order to apply these provisions, it is necessary to amend the provisions of the applicable State Measurement Act and the Real estate cataster relating to the management of the real estate and land cataster. Most of our state administration bodies are encouraged by activities in the European Union to establish spatial information infrastructure in the European Union have launched activities to establish geographical information systems that intend to raise their effectiveness through the establishment of a system for the collection, processing, management and management of data from their competence based on geo-verified spatial data, the basis of which is the data of the State's measurement and the real estate catastra. Therefore, the need for the legal arrangement of this new area was imposed, which is otherwise called the National Spatial Data Infrastructure. The reform of the cataster system is carried out by speeding up the alignment of the status of the cataster with the state of nature. At the same time, by harmonising the situation of the catasters and land books, the need for procedures to be discussed in this law that will allow for the reform to be implemented and the real estate and property records to be arranged. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club maintains that the applicant did well to propose a new text of the State Measurement Act in the real estate cataster because such important issues can only be regulated by a whole law. As regards the content of certain chapters and articles of the bill, I would point out the third chapter bearing the title of the real estate catalogue. Articles 18 to 76 in relation to the applicable law, this is a chapter in the new proposal for a law extended and proposed. This applies in particular to provisions governing the implementation of cadastrian measurements and technical reambulation as technical measures which only allow for the systematic renewal of cadastres and land books, as well as provisions governing the issue of individual translation of cadastral particles into real estate. These changes will allow effective implementation and legal security of real estate. In practice, it has been shown that for those cities and settlements where we have measurement, the state measure in the so-called so-called city. Gaus-Kriger's projection but in the meantime, there have been partial changes that can be made by technical reambulation very quickly that there is no need to do the full measurement from the beginning but only that the existing documentation is both numerically and statistically supplemental. Yes, I have to say a few more words about Article 161(2) which provides that natural persons authorised to carry out the State Measurement and Real Estate Catastra under the applicable law which are not authorised engineers are larger persons with medium-sized expertise who can continue to carry out the entrusted tasks referred to in Article 104 of this Act permanently. This provision removes the concerns of 154 people who today carry out certain tasks of measure that they will be deprived of their right to work. On the contrary, the Proposer assures them that they have done the work they have done before. Finally, I would point out that for the implementation of this law in the state budget from other sources, including sources from our cities, municipalities, citizens and interested legal persons, certain resources will have to be provided for in order to implement this law in practice, in order to establish the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and to edit the land book. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81886	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81887	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State! I'll first say something that I pulled from these arguments contained in this proposal. Two things I'll do there. First, the intentions that explain the need for this law to be passed, and here you have the following aspirations not to explain the broader, precision of the catastran measurement process, reshaping the land cadastre into a real estate cadastre and transferring some of the geodetic jobs to local self-government units. I could've counted some of the others, of course, but I'll just stay on it. The other thing about it is this expected consequences. The Proposer expects the reform of catasters and land books, the alignment of the situation in nature with entries in registers or registers, and thus achieves an increase in the security of ownership. It's something I agree with, and that's why this law should be supported. Now, I'm going to say something below that I need to be a little careful about. The explanation highlights somehow the urgency or need for the urgency of individual translation of the land cadastre into the real estate cadastre. When we talk about urgency, then it's logical that we take a shorter time and I would immediately agree with my predecessor that this is a job in many years, for an extremely long time. Therefore, it is almost impossible to speak in the categories of urgency when we talk about this. The second thing that is important and I have a certain reserve is that in one article, it says: "Courts and bodies of the state authorities will deliver a solution and judgments affecting the data in the catastro. " I've reduced a little bit, but that's clear. Therefore, those decisions by the state authorities which change the situation in the catastro or which change the situation on the ground or with regard to the parcel, as regards ownership, etc. I need to inform the cadastre that he's putting it in the register, that's logical, but here I'm adding something else that seems to me to be taking it lightly for granted. You know, you are, this law establishes a scheme in which the cadastrian record should be consistent with the state of nature. That's a good attitude. And I think as far as I know the state of nature is always a little bit ahead of records but the cadastrian records are well monitored by the state of nature and there is largely harmonised. But there comes another part of this scale called the cadastrian record that should also be consistent with what is written in the land books. In this respect, we get some contradiction, the situation in land books in space, and as far as I know, they're far behind compared to the state of nature. And if you put a cadastre before the task of harmonising the state of your record with what's in nature and with what's in the land books, then you bring it on an impossible mission. I'm completely, you know now there's one thing that's important that I can't disprove, and that's what property is about the records is the oldest one and that paper or that information that's written in the land books, and if the cadastre is put in a position to coordinate its records with the state of the land books then it's going to move away from the state of nature and it's going to write something in its record that's completely far from life, which is the destruction of the real state and the property, which is ultimately a violation of someone's right. I don't know the situation where what I'm saying is illogical but I know a lot of situations where what I'm saying is exactly what I'm saying. Now I mention because this obligation is mentioned here in the Property Act. I know that the Law of Ownership has been entrusted by state authorities, for example the State Attorney's Office, that what belongs to the ownership of the Republic of Croatia after the transformation of previous ownership books in its name. It's undeniable. But in the areas that are nominally owned by the Republic of Croatia, buildings and houses and courtyards that are privately owned there, let me be a little free, by inert and permits, let's say some local committees or local communities without it being registered in land books. It should not formally be owned by the individual who built the house, but it is not of particular benefit or insistence that this part of the space be owned by the Republic of Croatia because it is of no use and destroys what is in life. Of course, I am not putting this on the heart of this law because this regulation establishes it according to the rules of the profession and establishes to the extent that it is necessary, but I am going back to what I said here to expect to be done quickly, and I am afraid that then on that platform, a regulated administrative procedure that applies to this, which must be precise, for which it takes time, for which it takes the consent of the parties in the procedure, which requires patience. This cannot be resolved in a way that you attach the notice to the ad board. And then you'll get people to, people will be scattered. You know, people won't even know his house isn't his house anymore. I repeat, I am talking about those categories and that piece of space that did not express the interest of the Republic of Croatia and there is no great harm to be private because there is a house there without the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. One more thing I'm going to say here, actually two things that have been mentioned before, and they've been mentioned today. This issue of technical equipment for these services and those in court and those in the catastro. It is indisputable that technical equipment is a good assumption that this is better done, but I'm afraid we often start from the fact that the new computer solves the problem of the data. The computer will help us find the information more easily. But if the wrong information came into it, it would constantly be guilty and constantly producing consequences because of his guilt and don't let that happen, so we're making big expectations and big fairy tales out of it. That's the first thing. It's another thing. Although I don't have reliable data I'd be inclined to agree that what this law determines that I can make people category engineers that probably in this situation people who don't have that rank can do that, and they know the job. I do not dispute that ultimately it must be so, but given the time it takes, given the necessary patience in this matter it seems to me and in this division of business there should be some compromise. With these fences that I said, I said them for the expectation that this thing would go. She does not question my determination to uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81888	On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81889	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on State Measurement and a Catastrophe of Real estate, a law bearing the P.Z.E. mark, a law that we are harmonising our dealings with the legislation of the European Union, a very important and important law, a law whose effects and the consequences of which we have heard from my predecessors should be far-reaching. For these very reasons, we are aware of responsibility for the effects of this law from the SDP Club regret that this important law is sent to the Assembly procedure in this way by emergency procedure bearing the P.Z.E. mark. We at the SDP Club immediately remove any doubt we consider the need to pass this law questionable. However, we hold that in two readings and, if necessary, within a shorter period of time than what is common to our Rules of Procedure, we would better look at all the legal effects produced by this law in some reasonable 30 days, and I am sure that we have contributed to better-quality legislative solutions for this team as much as we know from reliable sources that the usual broad discussion in professional circles has been left out of haste, both in the process of drawing up drafts of this law and in the final draft law. Finally, we are witnessing that today before the start of this session, the Croatian Association of Employers and also the Croatian Chamber of Architects and other engineers in construction were asked to the President of the Parliament and to all clubs to make this law, if possible, in two readings. The reason is known. That's why I said that we're not happy that we're passing this law in a hurry today, and I would say without those who had so much to say and contribute to making the law more quality. For us, the declaration of this law is marked P.Z.O. as an explanation for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure at least confusing, so allow me to read what is written here on page 5 and it is said that the adoption of the law by emergency procedure is of particular national interest for the following reason, that the amendments to the law on ownership and other real rights adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 15 December 2006 and amending Article 388a. I propose introducing a partial trust in the truthfulness of fully, completely land-based books for those catastrian municipalities for which electronic data processing is open, etc. etc. We hold and personally believe that this time, too, it is a common and incomprehensible and unnecessarily unnecessarily necessary speed to refer the law to the parliamentary procedure for reasons of such reasoning, partial trust in the truthfulness and completeness of land books. Otherwise, if the argument is correct and good, we all have great reason to be serious. I believe it's one recklessness or law that's quoted and the article that's listed here says the following. Exceptionally from the provision of paragraph 5 of this Article, the protection of trust in the truthfulness and completeness of land books shall apply from 1 January 2007 and property in catastrian municipalities for which the electronic processing of data, land registers and properties that have been entered into the land data base under the specific provisions of the Law on Land Books. Well, here's what I suggest, Mr. Secretary of State, is that you, too, are showing off. I hope I've got a good reading of what we brought in at the end of last year, and that's how it ends up being written into this final bill. Furthermore, in an explanation of the need for the adoption of this Act, I quote: "Six years of application of this Act has shown that it has been successfully applied in its basic settings and has been a key lever in the launch of property planning activities is primarily referred to as a cadastre and the creation of property records on land registers." By regulating in a new way state measurement and real estate cataster operations, reorganising the cadastrian service by establishing a Croatian geodetic institute, allowing for the adoption of a programme of state measurements and a catalogue of real estate for the period 2001 to 2005, as my predecessors said, made it possible for the adoption of new Croatian geodetic dates and catastrian projections, but very important for the establishment of an organised and controlled system of authorised physical and legal persons to carry out state measurement and cataractments. As a result, the measure of land has been accelerated, the translation of land books from analogue to digital form and so on. Today all of you have arrived, there have been requests from colleagues who are in practice and who will be brought into a very awkward position one way or another when it comes to the market but I'll talk about it later. However, significant shortcomings have been confirmed in some segments of the implementation of the existing law. First of all, a major lag behind in the translation of the catastrophe, land in the real estate disaster. It's stopped optimal, I'd say it's necessary to establish the information system of the cataster and the land book. There was no takeover by local self-government units and it was out of their jurisdiction. According to the current Law, units of local self-government had the same tasks that this new law allows them to do. The only problem is that relatively few units of local self-government were technically or otherwise trained to take over these jobs, so it was a cadastre for them. Now knowing that it is likely to remain almost identical to the situation of the cadastre in only one of the articles requires the possibility to legalise it in some way and to charge the work that has been done for free, as stated in Article 126, on the basis of the Agreement on mutual rights and obligations. It's a little strange if we're talking about the market economy, if we're talking about what we're all looking at together in the direction of the West. For all these reasons, and in particular to comply with the Law on Land Books, by defining the elements for the establishment of a common information system from the land database and the database of the digital-catastrian plan here I dare say we have this bill. Because of the huge problems we are faced with and the need to regulate relations in another way, better quality legislation. Despite the belief that the intensity of the proposed law is good, that in certain segments it better regulates relations, as well as actions, by monitoring the development of technology and by respecting the existing organisation, knowledge and opportunities appropriately to the legislative offices. First of all, it is thought of the national infrastructure of spatial data, the geographical information system and so on and so on, the fact is that they are a large reserve and that is what is not good, and I will say a great dissatisfaction with this Bill proposed by the Croatian Chamber of Architects, engineers in construction. First of all the class of geodesy engineers, Croatian Association of Employers, Croatian Chamber of crafts and craftsmen and owners of craft companies with mahm geodeti with medium professional training. That's what we discussed on the parent board. You heard what my colleague Shirac said on behalf of the Committee. So the waist was so obvious. A profession that doesn't matter how important the law is to the economy and economic operators, but also to all others, of course, will regulate relations in which the profession will be at the heart of the event. A profession with a clear burden of responsibility, how much more big and demanding work it expects to take care of catastres and land books with a real state of play on the ground. We have received the same data by translating land books from analogues into digital form only on another medium. The contents remain the same. And that's what's not good and what's definitely going to need to be speeded up if we want to in due course, it should be much shorter than what counterpart Shirac was talking about. We have a real estate cadastre, we have a reliable database that will be in the function of all of us, and economies primarily. I will take the opportunity to take just a few observations, a few quotes from the State Geodetic Authority to read from, here is the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction, which among other things says that those items of the draft bill proposed for the adoption of an emergency procedure cannot accept both conceptally and in substance. Therefore, the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction does not support the adoption of this draft bill and requires the same to be withdrawn from the adoption procedure and to join a thorough debate on the proposed normative solutions to which selected representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction should participate. Of course they gave 20 of their examples and observations and referred it to almost all relevant addresses. The Croatian Employers' Association also says that the Law on State Measurement and Real Estate Cataster is one of the rules that significantly affects the conditions of business of employers of the Goedetic and Geoinformatic profession and is extremely important for their economic and social position. The Association of Employers of Geodetic and Geoinformatic Professionals was not involved in the process of draft laws, although representatives of associations offered co-operation on several occasions. The association believes that the designs are designed because of their great importance that this association and many others, including the Croatian Geodetic Society, should be included for the future of the profession. I see my time is running out. The basic question arises why so much dissatisfaction. In our court, it is not about the vanity of individuals but about justification, concern and dissatisfaction over the lack of quality legal solutions for a number of areas of the profession's work, stopping certain processes, narrowing down the field of work, centralising affairs by the administration, and despite the fact that it is on the budget in order for the State Geodetic Authority to enter the market as well. Of course, we share concerns. We support most of the proposals and the Association of Employers and the Chamber, small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, and we are interested in making as high-quality and of course a longer-term solution as possible. For these reasons, the SDP Club referred to the amendment procedure. I now expect that the promoters will accept them. And what is fundamentally not said here in this law is, the missing works on the membership, whether selected or agricultural, are left behind by a cadastre of buildings related to detailed designs that are in the current law devoid of geodetic supervision of construction works. In particular, the proposed legislative solution is the competence of local self-government units to carry out geodetic tasks and to prevent companies authorised for this activity, but also of individuals to carry out the same on the market principles of cadastres, this says that in special relations it will resolve it. In any case, we at the club are also concerned about the fate of these colleagues who are on the market with medium professional equipment. And we expect to take care of them in the final statement and vote and make sure that the laws are in the hands of our citizens... The mere form is already content, that we respect man's life and reality first of all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here I am, and this time I call on behalf of the club to accept at least one part of the amendment through a transitional period so that this big deal that is expecting us to end as soon as possible, of course with great support from everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81890	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP club, honourable representative Miroslav Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81891	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. A lot's been said. I will try on behalf of the HSP club not to repeat, at least not to repeat the topics, and even less to repeat solutions. However, speaking of a law that regulates cadastrian affairs, that is, the real estate cadastre really needs to say some things that are connected to each other, although not the subject of this law, but are mentioned in the basic issues, or the consequences that will result from the adoption of this law. It's primarily the state of land books or what we'd like to say popularly, garters. In fact, the notor fact is that anyone who is somewhat understood in the state of the real estate catastra in Croatia to look at the triangle that it is, they mentioned some colleagues, and these are cadastrian records as one point, land books or grantines as another point and what is the most important real state as a third point. When comparing these three points, it is best to compare cadastar records and grantshops, i.e. land books with real condition. So you'll get a picture like this. The cadaster records are approximately 80% in agreement with the actual state. So the cadastral record somewhere shows 80% as it really is, and 20% is not in the cadastrian record exactly accurate and accurate. When you look at the garter according to the real state, or land books, then you get a mirror picture of that story. 80% of what it says in the land books is not in agreement with the actual state of ownership and everything else, so it's just the opposite of the cataster. Smart countries, even in Europe, have dealt with it at one point, some of them had the same situation, for example the Czech Republic, which solved it the way HSP suggested before I was worth 5 or 6 years in this Croatian Assembly when the law that we are changing was passed, when we proposed what the Czechs did. In this state of cadastrian records and the real state where 80% matches, and the grant records that are 80% not consistent with the actual state, they simply did that that the cadastrian records at one point declared land books and gave the deadline for people to show about those who think, so they actually complain about the existing state of only 20%, those who aren't in real, where the real state isn't the same as in the cataster. With us, however, we stubbornly insist that these 80% of the people of the owners or land particles who do not comply with the grantine that they exorcise justice, those 80%, so that they update the grant books and, among other things, through the cadastrian records. In this way we are actually doing a much bigger job that will last much longer, which is much more demanding for completely incomprehensible reasons. Because both needs to be coordinated and then it's better to coordinate 20% with the real state than 80% with the real state. But it is such a policy and such a policy has been conducted in Croatia in recent years from us and me personally unknown reasons. Why am I talking about this? I'm talking about it because a few years ago, I think even last or last year in the Croatian public talked about the enormous success of the former justice minister who managed to take down the land books, and she actually only managed to get one thing, transfer the data to another medium, transfer the data to the electronic media, and thus her great success was reduced to one thing, that you are now and we can get a lot faster on incorrect data than we could before. That's all there is to it. Now, of course, you go to the computer, you go into the land books, and you get the wrong information in an hour. You've had to wait a long time to get that incorrect information, file a proposal, so this, that, until you write a solution, etc. etc. It's the only difference. As for the relations between cadastar records and land books, nothing has changed. But I'd like to talk here on behalf of the club about two things that say that are basic issues that are being regulated by this law. First of all, here it writes under point (f) of the basic questions, that this proposal of the law, in a new way, is done precisely and differentiated by groups and then writes in brackets of companies, crafts and offices of authorised geodesy engineers, prescribes business entrusted to legal and physical persons specifically authorised to carry out the tasks of state-owned property cadasars and the procedure for obtaining authorisation, etc. etc. Here, however, there is no mention of another institution in the brackets, and this is the region's cadastre office. Unfortunately, I have to admit, in a new way, precise and differentiated by groups are prescribed business for companies, for crafts, for offices of authorised engineers, but Mr. Secretary of State and for regional cadastre offices because in Article 122, paragraph 9. Article 122 says the following tasks are carried out in the Catastre district offices and then the establishment, management, maintenance of real estate cadastres, the implementation of supervision, the 9th point of provision of geodetic services. And now I'm asking myself a question like this. The debate here was whether geodetic technicians with medium professional readiness to or not do all the tasks that authorised geodetic engineers can do. Some are against, some are against, the proposal is good in my own court, but I'm asking a question like this. It was said that 50 people would lose their jobs. And now I'm asking you, and should the Catastra field office not have an employee authorised engineer but just a geodetic technician and provide geodetic services? According to this bill of law, yes. So his craft will be shut down because he's not an authorized geodesy engineer but only has medium professional equipment, but the area office will be free to do the same job we banned him from doing. So please, Mr. Secretary of State, agree to this, and since I think that we as a club are on track for what you suggest, I suggest that you adopt our amendment to Article 122, which says point 9 of Article 122 is deleted. In other words, all 14 of these 14 and 13 of the above-mentioned duties and jobs that they can carry out other than the provision of geodetic services. The explanation is very simple. All geodetic services, all geodetic services in Croatia are engaged in service geodetic companies and crafts, as you yourself state in basic issues that are being addressed. So companies, crafts and offices of authorised engineers. All of them, regardless of whether companies, whether they are craftsmen, whether the offices of authorised engineers are performing these tasks, and who regularly charge VAT for these jobs. The field office for the cadastre, but VAT doesn't pay, he's not a liability. Of course, it puts regional offices and those who work there for those jobs in a better position. They're already 22% cheaper at the start. They're cheaper at the start. Why, as it is, I think it's a completely illogical solution. It is therefore unacceptable that these geodetic services are provided by the units of the state administration for reasons and other reasons, which is to control the operations carried out. In accordance with Article 122, point 6 of the same Article, the business of the regional offices is referred to as the review and validation of the parcel and other geodetic embodies. Now watch this situation. The Catastre field office makes an elaborate and then examines it itself and confirms it, so it reviews its own lab, probably the same man who's still a geodetic technician. Well, it's just illogical, impossible to keep it that way. So if the catastrus district offices carry out a review and confirmation of the parcel and other geodetic elaborates that we agree with in the HSP club, then they cannot provide geodetic services at the same time as it says in point 9, that is unacceptable. So I ask you to consider our amendment, to accept it, because it will not change the law's intensity or the pronoun that you wanted to regulate these relations really, and that is what we support this effort to regulate these relations between companies, crafts and offices of authorised engineers. It also has something to do with the catastrus area offices, they have 13 more, 13 points numbered jobs that they can do but not provide geodetic services because they are not, namely because they are simply much more favourable at the beginning, in the price of their services to all others who live on the other hand because they should audit their own laboratories. Such a thing, please, has happened, a similar thing happened in Article 153 of the last paragraph, which says, in the first paragraph, "in carrying out inspection surveillance, a geodetic inspector or an authorised civil servant will make a written decision", etc., etc. Therefore, any removal of irregularities, any temporary ban on the conduct of operations, etc., etc. And then it is said in the last paragraph of this article: "a complaint against a geodetic inspector's solution or that authorised civil servant solves the special commission of the State Geodetic Administration appointed by the director". This translates from Croatian to Croatian and in our mentality means actually this: I, as a state inspector, issue a certain business ban or a solution to the elimination of irregularities. The man I betrayed, this company complains, complains to? He's complaining to my colleague who's sitting in my room with me. Namely, the director of my office where I work as a state inspector, and this is the State Geodetic Office, is setting up an ad hoc commission that will assess the appeal of my solution, and who will evaluate that appeal? My colleague sitting with me in a room or a colleague from the next room, if we won't or anyone else. So, one of my colleagues also works with me together at the same Geodetic State Administration. So that's, that's not a second-degree solution. You know, in court when you go to second degree you go from county to county. Well, some other judge handles it. Here it would be as if, in a court of law, the municipal court had a solution in room 153, and the appeal was settled in room 154 of the same court. It's simply illogical, impossible whether it's ad hoc or not, so on behalf of the HSP Club, I suggest that a second-degree procedure be maintained as in the current law. I mean, he's gone. It's better not to be gone than to make a farce out of it because it really doesn't say there has to be a second-degree solution because any State Inspector's solution can be conducted by an administrative procedure that is usually carried out today when someone is not satisfied or anything else. Or there is a third solution, and that third solution is that second-degree is not to be the State Geodetic Authority which has also made a first-degree solution rather than that second-degree being the Ministry of Construction and Environmental Protection and everything else. Then it's a second-degree solution. If you don't want to take over these jobs yourself, then at least let that ad hoc complaint resolution committee appoint the ministry and not the state administration itself. Because we will come truly in this society that is not used to bribes, corruption, relationships and acquaintances in ridiculous situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81892	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Željko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81893	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, allow me a few words about the bill's proposal on the state measure of real estate catastra with the Final Bill on behalf of the HSS Club. I'd like to start here on this law with what should be the purpose of this law. Well, anyway, the goal should ultimately be to get quick, accurate and cheap information for our citizens. In order to make it clear that it is necessary to do a lot of things to come up with a quality law, and I'm afraid that with this proposal that we have today it will not happen but that it will come to what I once had the opportunity to see as a young forester when I started working 20 and a few years ago and coming to the cadastre, and then an old geometer told me, it's picturesque that I understand what geodites are doing and what the foresters are doing. Well, you see, say, this little thin line line. I can tell. You don't see me living off that line, and from this all around you foresters. So I'm afraid with this law we're going to lead to another such monopoly where he's going, and so far he's been present. I'm sure there's a lot that's been said so far. It is clear from the proposal that it would be best for this bill to go to another reading because there is a lot of uncertainty in it. So I think that would be the best solution, and he's assuming that with certain repairs he'll end up quality. Since the situation in the disaster itself and around it has been regulated since the 99th year here with the last law. And he introduced a lot of positive things compared to what was before. But after 6 years of application, there is a clear need to bring in certain adjustments to that law so that they can be better and better and faster to obtain certain records. And especially today, before entering the European Union, where we have an imperative that we have an exact cadastre and an exact statement of real estate. And I remember, here recently, when talking to Mr. Borelli who was here in the Parliament, that the only question he had was why we're against buying land. And for someone to have to buy, clearly, they have to have a certain database that should be accurate. The bill further states that it is in line with a lot of other laws that have been passed here in parliament in the meantime. But, let's say, I'm curious as to why it's not in conformity with the forest law that was brought here last year. Which also has certain things that are defined and are currently related to the forest land cadastre. I think it could have been brought into line with that law, too. The same consequences that are predicted to enter this Law, which it certainly predicts will mean greater security of property ownership and legal traffic. It will enable faster economic development, etc. And I hope that after the adoption of this Law, we will come into a position that we no longer have all the instruments that we used not so long ago, from the pantographs and the others that we used in our cathedrals. Some more in some less. Some have already been digitized before. So we can expect him to allow one real flow of information. It has also been said to the board that all these changes that are scheduled to last long and here in the debate for 20 years and more to get a fully digitized form. So I wonder why the rush to passing the law when it can still be done and repaired within 30 days. If we're going to do something under that law the assumption is that after the last six years we've been doing it a long time ago, then I think it would be a good idea not to rush into an emergency procedure right now but to comb through all these remarks that were made on committees in written forms, from our chambers, from craftsman's, from construction and other chambers. I think it's people who are professional enough to suggest certain solutions and in that part I think it'll be the best thing I said at the beginning that the bill as such goes to another reading. Furthermore, in the proposal of this Law as well as in many others that we bring many topics from this content of the law, it is left for the adoption of sublegal acts. Those sublaws will be brought by the geodetic administration myself, I'd say. I'm glad that, it seems to me that we have two geodes in the Parliament who probably know it far better than I do, but look if we allow a lot of things to be prescribed later, the director will make it clear that then he himself will look to his administration in some sense... And then that basic sense of getting fast and cheap data won't happen, but we'll still be paying expensive land because only if you go out and ask for some simple data from the possession list in the cadastre 75 kuna note plus services, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For each data there are no cheaper services than that mark of 75 kuna. So under today's conditions, when we have digital fast data, then I think it's logical that this data must be paid so much if that employee who works can take it out in a minute, two people take it out and give it to a stranger. It seems to me that in this way with the possibility that it will then be prescribed by the director of the collection, storage, the rest seems to me that, and we have cases in a whole series of other laws, you remember that water law that we all voted for, and then with regulations, we have to pay dearly for all these, these paperworks that ordinary citizens have to get ourselves when we're looking for something in that part. And that's why I think first of all it was meant to allow that information for a citizen to be as cheap and fast as possible. We may get speed, but it seems to me that the data will remain very expensive. Furthermore, today, let me not repeat what was already in the suggestions of colleagues who spoke by the Chamber of Commerce, the suggestions that came. Listen if we're limiting someone today whether they'll be registered as d.o.o. or as a cooperative or as a craft, I think it's in one law absurd that this is happening in Parliament. Legal entities can also operate as craftsmen and as d.o.o. and as cooperatives and as d.d. And why in one law now, would it seem to me that for the first time it would be limited to a twist that couldn't be like that? Why is there a geodetic guy who might happen to be the owner, for example? One hectare of orchards wouldn't be able to do these two things over his own turn if he's busy or can even hire? There's no reason not to. If there's anything else we can do that way, right? If a craft can be registered as a doctor, for the rest I see no reason why you would limit it here, and if he wants to do the jobs that authorised engineers should do, he must be, he has the authority to do it. So in one way, we are limiting the freedom of the people of entrepreneurship, and that nobody can convince me that that's not the case, and that's why I accept the motion of the Chamber of Commerce to change that. I also agree with my colleague, Rožić, who spoke about the articles, article 122, and I think that Article 9 should also be deleted, and we also accept the suggestions that my colleague Širac made and you have made an effort to correct this Law with one 10th, 11 amendments, which means that I believe that you will also adopt that there are a lot of irregularities that can be corrected in this Law. Otherwise, as far as most articles are concerned, I think I can personally support them, but I'm saying this kind of indeterminateness I had the need to make certain remarks. I would also like to make comments related to geodetic affairs in local self-government that are prescribed in Articles 95 to 100. We bring here often times and with this proposal also some kind of obligation on local self-government where it will have to run certain tasks as a cadastre of water and other things that follow by these articles, and we did not prescribe who would pay for it, and from there in '93. When we introduced local self-government, we passed a lot of such laws, and then with the right of our mayors of the municipalities, they wonder who will finance all this because local self-government can't finance it, and so can cities and counties. Therefore, it would be good for us to say in any law - making way when something is passed on, the duty to say it will be charged out of that too. I can tell myself from my examples while I was in the Croatian Forests where I had very good cooperation with the geodetic administration where we got a lot of data from them, but we had to pay all that information as a state-owned company because at the beginning we were a public company, after only a company. So our geodites know every line very well, the line I was talking about at first, and it seems to me that with this bill now, if this is adopted, it's going to be far more expensive. Therefore, in the end, I would conclude the HSS Club suggests that this law goes into a regular procedure, that these remarks that have been made that they can easily be corrected with certain settings and then we will believe that we will get a quality law that will not be expensive for our citizens. That's what I'd end up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81894	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81895	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I would have joined in this debate in the way my predecessors had de facto debated. I must say, just as it has already been said tonight, that it seems to me that this law has been passed too quickly, that there is no need to go into emergency proceedings for the reason that the regular procedure would give him more opportunity to hear the remarks that you have heard tonight and that you have had the opportunity to hear the discussions here today, at the very end of the line, that there may be additional conversations in the chambers, according to the craft chambers, the Chamber of Engineers and Geodes. At the very end of the line with the very people who have the geodetic offices and in some ways get some consensus. I have to say, '99. the year when the first law on national measurement and real estate was passed that the law greatly improved the situation in this profession from the reorganization of the cadastrian services, it enabled the establishment of the Croatian Geodetic Institute, the adoption of the State Measurement Programme and the real estate cataster that went from 2001 to 2005. And the law has proved quite successful, and I think we've welcomed him. He was also welcome in handling real estate records and thus continued teaching and self-recording of ownership of these properties and land books. He followed that, somewhere in 2004, the government's conclusion on the state and preparation for the establishment of a common information system of land-book real estate. However, it is known that there have been problems with the application of that previous law, and these problems could, in particular, be brought to mind the problem of the speed of carrying out land cadastre data in real estate catasters, the establishment of GIS or the information system of land catastra and land registers, and the location of certain jobs in local self-government units such as catastres, street records, squares, home numbers, etc., and certainly ineffectiveness of the work of geodetic inspection and finally criminal provisions. This law directly influenced the amendments to many other complementary laws. Therefore, the Law on Construction and the Law on Land and the entire project of the State Measurement and Catastra Real Estate was also amended, in this past period, practically from the funds that we received from the European Union or mainly from... which has proved necessary and that those alignments with other legislation are fully implemented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is certainly important to mention is that the result is, in fact, the definition of the common information system and that, for the land databases and for the databases of the digital catastrian plan. However, what I would still like to point out is the skepticism of cataster data and land-book data, especially at the level of two systems of registers of catasters and courts, and thus the exceptional prematureity of trust institutes, truthfulness and full land-books. In fact, by law of ownership that we accepted at the end of last year, as you know, Article 388, we accepted that institute. I must admit that in our unsettled legal and legislative conditions it will lead to great, I think it will lead to great problems and that often it will end exactly the opposite of what we wanted. Another topic that I would also like to discuss with you tonight is what the predecessors have said and it concerns the doing of geodetic work by people who have ended up in medium professional training or with higher expertise. In fact, in Croatian society there are approximately 6.7% of people with higher and high expertise. Generally, as long as the law only accepts persons with high expertise or selects certain tasks that can be done by those who have medium professional equipment. In case... a mid-professional geodetic approach will be a situation in which about 50 owners of geodetic companies will be forced to fire their employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How each of these companies has about 5 employees de facto is 250 people who, by this new way, are going to lose their jobs within a year when it begins. The figure in question represents the finished half of the total number of employees in private Croatian companies in the area of geodetic activities, which directly raises the issue of cca. The existence of about a thousand people. In Croatia, about 450 to 500 legal entities dealing with geodetic activities are involved, including colleges, so water management, forestry and all other institutions. The bill puts about 50 companies at risk. Furthermore, authorised engineers have about 650. The figure needs to be managed by those with stand-alone status, it's precisely those who work on various state administration institutions, about 200th. Once again, we come to the conclusion that authorised engineers do not have enough for all existing business entities dealing with geodesy. As a result, we suggest that we go to the expansion of the circle of business that the trades could carry out and be authorized for some longer time, I will not say here permanently but one extended time, whether in 2013 or in any case for one dozen years, which they could perform in a way that the cycle of affairs in question is complemented by what I think most and tangises, and that is point 8 of Article 104, respectively, which says, pardon point 6 of the production of land and other geodetic emborates of real estate. So you're in the differentiation of jobs that they can do left four points or four types of jobs that can be done, you've excluded all 11 remaining 7 of them. But I think it's actually about the most painful point of point 7, so I suggest that the Proposer thinks again about whether it's meant to go on such a drastic narrowing for two reasons. First, because we're going to reduce in one hand and we're not going to have enough engineers, so the price of services is going to go up terribly. And on the other hand, we will bring to an unsatisfactory position those geodetics that have medium professional equipment and therefore have to close their crafts. Of course, I don't think that law should be inherited. So, I don't think a twist should be transferred from father to son, but it should be possible for older geodetics who are especially over 50 years old to end their working life with the possibility of doing their job and their crafts up to the end. In addition to that, I'd say a few things that contribute to them. In fact, these people have learned to communicate well in the field. Very often, they are terrains that engineers often do not want to go out on. So these are the courts of the gentleman as they say chickens drive in reverse, because they're such terrains that engineers won't be there at all, and these people are used to exactly that kind of work. Therefore, I know that you have left them with this kind of work in place, but why are you deprive them of what is obviously a sweet profit that a privileged group here wants to keep to themselves. I think we'll all be happy if the number of people doing this will be bigger and they've been able to do it yesterday and I don't believe it either from today. If they knew how to do it yesterday, they'd probably know how to do it tomorrow. So, I'm talking about an elderly population that hasn't been able to finish colleges in these six years, especially when colleges don't end regularly, and then the students end up older people who are still working and are employed, so they're in a working relationship and they don't have a chance to get to school. So, as far as the chamber in the chamber is concerned, there are about 400 members. It would certainly be good to talk in these institutions of the crafts chamber, chamber of engineers and architects etc. I'd like to mention something else. Very often, the same thing could be heard today in this debate, the question itself is not, information should be viewed as a pen, it is the means and the content you are entering is what the geodetics give you. So, it's not just the transformation of paper into electronics, it's the goal of making new quality measurements for which I don't know if we're fully humanely ready so that I don't know who from Europe that I don't know what means I'm not sure, that they're giving us unlimited resources, I think that we with the operation that we have and with the engineers we wouldn't be able to do so quickly. I hope, however, that optimism is a little higher than Mr. Shirac said and that we will still be able to see it within a reasonable time. So, if we look at data translation into the electronic medium as a pen, it's more important what we turn that medium into. It is an important measure, so at least in Zagreb, I will not say that it is so in Dalmatia but at least in northern Croatia, north-west Croatia we still have today as you know the measurements in the clusters, or 2 thousand 880. I think things like that would have priorities if they were at least down to the metric system without saying it's not just a question, and it's not such a rural neighborhood that we understand each other. A large part of the city of Zagreb, let's say Chucherjere and until recently, Markuševac would not have believed it was in such a measure of 2 thousand 880. Physically, if you saw those cards, you'd actually be amazed. They were eaten by mice, eaten by rats, etc. So, and now you from that media are trying to translate it into some kind of digital medium. It's not a solution. The solution is to make a measurement and then to implement it in a digital form by a new measure. The digital form of GIS that we keep talking about here is just a pen or just a tool to transfer it to. More important is content, more important is that we transfer it. And in order to do what we're transferring, we don't have enough of 750 people, no matter what those engineers call themselves, or they're only called geodites, craftsmen with SS gear or something. I'm saying, if they knew how to measure the land yesterday, they'd probably know how to measure it, whether they had a degree or not tomorrow. And maybe just for the end of something. As for the creation of these registers and the conduct itself, this may not be the subject of this very law, but I would also like to mention a little bit. So there's going to be a unique measure in the land books under A, B and C with A leading the cadastre, the measurement of the formation of the parcel and all together. B's going to record property and we're going to put cargo in C. As for the plots and what my colleague Rosic said, there are a lot of parcels in the land books and a dozen different parcels of unimplemented. I think that one of the reasons and one of the needs that we will surely encounter is the completion of courts or garnery not only with lawyers who very often cannot read any technical map but also with geodetics and bohemians and other engineers because they are such sources that they have to interpret and implement such a nature that unfortunately the lawyers do not know it. That's it. As far as our club is concerned, we've given four amendments to this particular thing, to the possibility of hiring medium professional training and to the part-round of their work, and if our amendments will at least be partially accepted, then we'll go to support this bill, and if not then we won't support it as a club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81896	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honorable deputy vice president Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81897	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! It's actually a shame that this law is not discussed in two readings, regardless of some news that can be welcomed there are a lot of questions that should be discussed, processed, corrected and changed for several reasons. They are one constitutional-legal nature, the other are procedural nature, the third are economic nature and there are those who have the character of social nature, so if you want one part of the issues that relate to the international and legal position of the Republic of Croatia. Let me, of course, I won't be able to talk about all these questions because I'll have too little time in ten minutes, but I've chosen a few. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In fact, it is quite clear that these articles are practically excluded legally from our craftsmen because Article 103 says: "State measure business" etc. "I can perform legal persons and authorised engineers." What about craftsmanship and craftsmen? They're not listed here. They are neither mentioned in Article 161 nor, accordingly, I have tabled two amendments to discuss this eventually and vote on it and these amendments would actually result in the equalisation of craftsmen as economic operators with legal persons of companies. This would respect the constitutional principle of equality of all entrepreneurs on the market, respecting the principle among other things that arises from the Constitution itself, further in the Constitution of Article 49 that the rights acquired by capital investments cannot be reduced by law or by any other legal act. And it should be said that a whole series of our crafts actions, as you know, have already been given the consent of the State Geodetic Administration, do these jobs, etc. And somewhere according to the estimate is about 8 hundred people employed on these jobs around 259 seemed to me as far as I got from the craftsman, 265 craftsmen as I got data from the craftsman's chamber they got this kind of consent. Therefore, it is obvious that that provision where it tries to fix it a little bit in Article 161 when it is said in paragraph 2 that natural persons can carry out these tasks permanently does not mean much because they do not actually have the authority unless they are engineers. And techs can still work on that part, but if they're craftsmen, and that's what they're talking about, they can't do it because they're not listed in the law. That's how it's supposed to be fixed. It must be clearly stated that this issue could be done excellently. The second point is related to Article 109 above all. It is questionable from the point of view of the article again 49. The Constitution and Article 14. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia can this be limited to the entrepreneurship rights and freedoms of foreign engineers or persons registered in the Republic of Croatia and... Permission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, especially the restriction is double. First, this restriction will not apply to citizens if they are members of the European Union or of the European Economic Area as it says here, but of course only if we enter and enter the European Union. Now I'm asking the question. Before this point, we discussed the agreement or the law under which we adopt the Agreement on the financing of certain SAPARD projects in agriculture where, among other things, it will be necessary to establish the limits of certain properties. What is it then? We will say then only when we enter the European Union, will those foreigners we must engage under that law... The deal we have to hire will work on this? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, clearly we won't. It is clear, therefore, that such a restriction does not stand and that it should be harmonised, should be resolved before this issue is passed, even if the wording is not resolved by an international contract and agreement. The second question, of course, is what does the European economic space mean in a specific case in our law. Some agreements state this among other things that this will be regulated by a specific body or by the European Commission's Committee on International Agreements. And what about our economic European space? Wait, wait, wait. By our law. I am not talking about what the European Union has established. We are talking about our economic, European economic space and not this other part. So it is quite clear that this issue needs to be further regulated and specified in order to be more clear about what it is? The third of my observations is related to Article 113. It should be reminded of an unusual rule that began to occur with us administrative bodies and administrative organisations when they adopt an administrative act, when they resolve a specific issue comes from a very simple assumption. In the first degree, we solved it. Who is pleased, who is not to be chosen to judge. And then they simply say who, of course, does not have a second degree procedure but if he is not satisfied with the jurisdiction, the damages may be sought before the court in charge. First, it's the opposite of the Constitution. The constitution clearly states that everyone has the right to appeal and such a possibility. Exceptionally, the right to appeal can be ruled out. Therefore, make an exception when it is excluded and not as a rule that it is disabled. And that's not good. In fact, what will be the second-degree body at the State Geodetic Authority or will be entrusted to the State Institute and so on. I don't know, it doesn't matter, but let's just figure out that in the administrative procedure people can handle it normally because you know that if they end up in court it'll take a few years, and the damage can be huge and irreparable in certain cases. Fourthly, you can see in Article 117, among other things, that responsible persons are obliged to pass an expert examination. And now, in paragraph 2 of that same article, it is said that the expert exam, of course, involves verifying the knowledge of the rules in force in the areas governed by this law and other rules in force. Well, I guess my professional exam should first prescribe that they must know these activities as referred to in Article 104, Article 101, and so on where geodetic administrations and geodetics work. Well, they should know first. And then they need to know how to apply the rules about it. And that's why it needs to be corrected, done right. If that knowledge is just regulations, then we've come into a situation where we're making him a administrative clerk and not a geodetic officer. And then it doesn't make any sense, especially then it still doesn't make sense to tie it just to a geodesy engineer. Fifth. In Article 118, and otherwise this is repeated in Article 123, something is happening to me that is astounding because it is said among other things. In paragraph 3 of Article 119, inter alia: ‘The structure of the State Geodetic Authority and the indicative number of officials and subsistences shall be governed by the Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.’ The second, among other things, in Article 123 of the establishment of the regional cadastre offices shall be set up by the Regulation referred to in Article 119(3) of this Act. And in the Constitution, it is beautifully written in Article 116 that there is very clear and completely no, there is no possibility of a different interpretation. "Construction", I emphasize the word structure, and so begins this item... "and the affairs of the state administration," means their performance "is governed by law". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation cannot explicitly prohibit the Constitution. And it's legal to prescribe what kind of business it is, what kind of structure this is, or if you want another law, it doesn't matter. This law needs to be said. And then I don't know, by means of an implementing act, tell the ways and functioning of doing these jobs how it's done. Now, if he adds this amongst other special cases, and if there could be further business examinations and certain things where among other things in Article 166 is said this, now wonders: "The equalist may also adopt other regulations for the implementation of this Law as needed." Well, regulations for law enforcement are passed by the government. The Director may only adopt those regulations which are explicitly authorised by this law because it is a administrative organisation. Therefore, the administrative organisation can only do what is legally authorised and cannot do any other business as if it were a local self-government unit or some other public institution, and so on. It's about a management organization. It should therefore be quite clear that, in such a situation, it is given one general authority which can lead to the law being played, and in addition, it is quite clear about the possibility of a legal basis for conflict of interest. Do not forget that the Geodetic Authority can also carry out specific tasks on the market with this law which allows it. Now imagine that same director should adopt implementing regulations that allow him or some other job. So you know who, as the "God made his beard first" said, right? Let us then say the same question that is quite interesting is, for example, related to Article 168, paragraph 2 where it is said that the units of local self-government are obliged to establish administrative bodies in charge of geodetic affairs within a year until the date of entry into force of this Act. Dear colleagues and colleagues, why don't you explain to me now that individual units of local self-government, like, and there are 165 residents like the civil society, are going to form a geodetic administration? Well, I know somewhere there's a chance to get together, but here you've made a general commitment that they're bound to form. So it should simply be said that units of local self-government are forming, and if they cannot form two or more units of local self-government in the area of one county can jointly form or trust each other with jobs. That's what you should write. It's supposed to be written not like this to make a commitment because it's a big, big problem. It is also a similar situation with this Article 161 because some of the good intentions that are directed among others towards natural persons, persons with lower expertise than a graduate engineer who will receive the appropriate powers are not actually fully implemented and there remains an undecided issue which should, in particular, be further resolved as the remaining issue of Article 172, in which, in which all acts are repaired, the implementing rules to be applied after the entry into force of this law. But at the same time this law ceases to apply that old law and now there is no further provision that they will apply unless they are contrary to this law otherwise this law should be respected and different from the Regulations. That's why I think we should work it out, and I suggest that we propose that we vote on this law at the end of our session, and that they, by their amendment, correct this bill so that it will be even better than it is... [[Invader Milinović: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81898	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Ante Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's to all the testimony of our clubs I couldn't react with either the replica or the corrections of the quote, and you'll allow me to be a profession after all. This time, I will recalibrate myself on what Mr. Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic said in his debate by putting actually constitutional categories, economic categories, social categories into one problem which is not really a problem in disseminating the powers of medium-sized work in the geodetic profession. My only question is in this entire replica, Mr. Arlovic, and all of you colleagues who discussed whether you would allow it if you and these professions were, let's say, an example for a nurse who has a registered trade to perform surgery in one of the operations requested by a high-prepared or a man who needs to know and know, and that's the whole replica of this. I ask you to accept that the geodetic profession exists, that people of high education exist, that they have their jurisdiction and work to do and that they need to secure that position. It's known here exactly by law that it's set up as an authorised engineer, which will be done by our craftsmen of middle preparation. I repeat, I can be denied by our secretary of state here. 95% of jobs will remain as described in their jurisdiction, their work responsibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81900	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81901	Dear colleague Bagaric, what is this about? I was talking about the need to allow craftsmanship, craftsmen to do the job. A craftsman or craftsman has the status of employees or workers, but he can hire others, including engineers with the authority to do so with him. What is a key problem in this law, craftsmen are excluded because it speaks only in article 103. Read carefully. Article 103 speaks of legal persons and authorised engineers. There are no craftsmen or other natural persons and you have to take care of it, and the craftsmen are even with natural persons. That's number one. Number two. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Physical persons authorised to perform, as referred to in Article 103, authorised engineers, not craftsmen, as no measurements for the cadastre have been written may continue to carry out the work referred to in Article 104. Now, look, now the question is, what is it? All of these individuals who are natural persons, and they are located in crafts actions as crafts actions, will not be able to work, and as natural persons will be able to work. What does that really mean? Actually, it's a law mess. I was talking about the need to adopt an amendment that amends Article 103 in relation to Article 161 which also allows for crafts actions to be able to carry out these tasks and those persons who have received the authorisation to do so. I don't go into the demarcation that jobs should be done by a graduate engineer, who should be doing a higher professional preparation, which should be done by a geodetic technician. Because after all, it's not my profession to get into that part of the business. I only engage in the legal aspects of this position, although I think it is not logical in the situation where on our market there is a great need for such professions because all the practicals that have ended up employed to disable this to our people, while at the same time having in the neighbouring example Slovenia law that allows for people with medium and high expertise, and then by law we prevent employees with powers from the countries of the European Union from doing so. So forgive me, then we bring our own citizens to an unfavourable position. It needs to be fixed and has to be solved for all of us, not formality. [[Invader Milinović: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81902	The word has an esteemed representative, Ante Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81903	... As far as the debate is concerned, obviously he has put back the economic and constitutional category here with this, and as far as engineers, authorized engineers outside will either work exclusively or be able to work on those jobs relating to the network of permanent geodetic points at our border. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] And you understand a little bit of expertise would understand that we're bonding with other systems, actually one unique system by Gaus Kriger, and that we're going to have to use both the knowledge and these people to carry out this activity that we have. I took this as an answer. Here's what I'm going to do in my debate, I'm going to try out from this thing that's been said to sublime and say here are a few actually shades of good and positive things about the adoption of a new Law on State Measurement and Real Estates. I'll remind you of our past. I think you should remember that in the former state. Unfortunately, the Land Cataster Act was in force until '99. A year. Understandable and why it was valid and why it hasn't changed. At that time and that society, that's how it worked. So they could show when they used the funds from the primary mission to lend agriculture, all the incorrect records that were kept by the cadastre, not to mention everything else that could be based on tax policy in one badly recorded space and space, to others if you want political motives why Croatia was left without total and real measurement. It is known for what reasons who wanted to master a particular area, but apparently to master an incorrect record that they did not want to make accurate. Therefore, I think this Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Realty, which was adopted in '99. In one new way he arranged to perform the affairs of the state measure and the cataster of real estate almost from the old Yugoslavia for the first time it was passed and welcomed the law and I thank you as a man of the profession that you did in '99. The years still brought, established. In essence, it allowed the establishment of the Croatian Geodetic Institute, the adoption of the programme of state measurement and catastra real estate, the one known to the previous government in 2001 and 2005 as well as the establishment of an organised, controlled system of authorised natural and legal persons to carry out the affairs of state measurement and real estate catastra. So, in those six years, it has certainly been one good basis for creating a prerequisite for a new law that we have here today in both the first and second readings that is in line with the standards of the law, similar to the laws of the European Community that we want to destroy and I believe that it should absolutely be supported as such. It is certainly necessary to consider some of the amendments that have been said here and which may be standing are partly justified, but let him say his profession about it. And I have no doubt, knowing my fellow Geodetes that they will certainly say what of it should be accepted or not accepted. Also in these new amendments, i.e. the new full law, all amendments concerning other laws, such as the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, the Law on Property and other real rights, the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the Law on Land Books, etc. The programme of state measurement and real estate catastra 2001-2005 and the project of land books and catastras, and I will recall which was co-financed by the World Bank loan and the CARDS programme and the state budget defined the elements for the establishment of a common information system consisting of a land database and a digital cadastrian database. So the degree of harmony that has been reached in a new way has forced the amendments to this law or rather the brand new law that our ministry is proposing. Finally, in line with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2004-2007 programme, serious activities were launched at the establishment of a geographical and information system, the IS, as we geodites call it, whose basic basis is the state dimension and the real estate cadcade, which also imposed the need for legal regulation of the area of national spatial data infrastructure, etc. NIP, what we geodites call it. The construction of real estate and property records is one of the main requirements and the European Union against Croatia. In its conclusion of 1.4.2004, the government of the Republic of Croatia has given a strong incentive to address the accelerated harmonisation of the catastra with the state of nature, as well as the cataster and land books. However, it is not enough. So I welcome this new adoption and this new law that we have a chance to discuss here today. I think he's working in detail on making official charts of different standards, basic network of permanent geodetic points, state borders. Let's just remember here's your net-proposed spatial plans at the county level, the base on which they had to be done. In the basic state map 1:25000 of our spatial plans units of local self-government, means municipalities and cities. Basic state maps 1:5,000. This law defines exactly what basis, how spatial plans are adopted, not how some people used to say that on scissors, and then say here's the spatial plan, and from it were the general urban plans and all the other plans. So with what accuracy, then, the geodeta could transfer to the field the provisions of that spatial plan or the general urban plan, you can guess for yourself. The procedure of the cadastral measurement, technical reambulation, the conduct of civil servants and participants, as well as the procedures for public examination after the measurement or after the technical reambulation has been carried out. The construction and maintenance of a cadastrian operator, a property catastra with special emphasis on the Construction Act, is required. The recast of one or more cadastrian particles from the land cadastre to the real estate cadastre is prescribed. The establishment of NIPs, i.e. national spatial data infrastructures, is being introduced and discussed. In a new way precise and differentiated by groups, companies, crafts, offices of authorised geodesy engineers are prescribed jobs that are entrusted to legal and physical persons specifically authorized to carry out the state measure and the real estate catastra where we are here today quite confused. And it is known exactly from what level a legal person or a craftsman can do jobs. I think we as fellow geodetics, at least here, sitting in the Parliament, we understand. The structure and affairs of the State Geodetic Administration and the Croatian Geodetic Institute are also prescribed, as well as provisions that should allow geodetic work to be taken over in local self-government units. Here I want, even though we are already running time, to highlight one interest of our units of local self-government and for this digitisation of the data that the cadastrian municipalities and the cadastre records we have through the water cadastre and everything else they need, here is the determination if you want the most ordinary communal compensation to everything they use in planning their space. I think there is a very clear definition here of inspection within the work of geodetic activity, its supervision, the working conditions in which it will work and carry out this activity. Therefore, I have no doubt that these fundamental provisions will, in the right way, present the law, not only to our public but to all those interested in restoring it, measure their country. Comrade Shirac said you heard the information. Unfortunately, it's not about 6%, it's a little over 6%, say, of measured and orderly countries, which means that they're aligned both by cataster and by land books. And what we're going to do and how much more time we're going to run or spend to bring it into the 100%. I don't think we have time to wait. I'm also very supportive of this urgent law-making process, because obviously the time for this profession, for the jobs we've been doing has long, long since expired. But I also said the reasons why this profession wasn't potentiated in one way. So absolutely here in my debate I support this law-making with all the specifics that have been made here and said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81904	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Jagoda Martic. Excuse me, replica, pardon, replica, distinguished representative Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81905	My dear colleague, Vice President, you have allowed your colleagues to reply to my reply to the line, not just this. You almost deny me a replica. Anyone who understands doesn't understand, I don't know a colleague, Bagaric. But according to this article 109, a foreign engineer can do a very large number of jobs except for those you listed. So it can operate topographical measurement and the production of state maps as referred to in Article 7(2). So from Article 101, it can create specific geographical bases for spatial planning, construction, design. The construction of a geodetic project, the production of elaborates and... construction, control of geographical, geodetic measurements in the construction and maintenance of buildings, situation building, drafts etc., etc., everything that reads in 101. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what's most important. Under the same Article 109 foreign nationals within the meaning of this law are not considered citizens of the Member States of the European Union and of the European Economic Area. This is 27 members of the European Union plus Norway, plus Switzerland. According to European Union rules, 29. Let me tell you something else. We have tried this law, and I have said not only counter-constitutionally but contrary to agreements that we have already accepted internationally or already accepted in Article 161, so we have said that Article 5 of Article 109 will not apply until Croatia enters the European Union, and here is now a proposal for an agreement, or a law that we adopt today to not speak of others who have already been published. It's said among other things. The purpose of these provisions is to establish rules for access to Community external assistance for pre-accession measures for agriculture and rural development under the SAPARD, etc. and then Article 2 is said among other things, it is open to all natural and legal persons established by... members of the European Union and the European Economic Area. What makes it possible for us to rule out this agreement that he voted on? So this agreement is by force of the Constitution above this law and I'm asking it to be resolved, not... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81906	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81907	I was just talking about the possibilities for a foreign engineer to run for international competition, meaning all the rules for doing certain geodetic activities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It's not a secret. And so far we've used this variant where we didn't have a technique, or a people to get certain jobs in the preparation of geodetic bases for a particular project working, and this part of the legal even now is a respected representative Arlović has upgraded in this variant so I have no answer as to the agreement and others...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81908	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81909	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the introductory part of this bill, I quote: "Six years of application of this law has shown that in all its basic settings it has been successfully applied and that it has been a key lever in the launch of the property planning activities of the cadastre and the teaching records of ownership of land book properties. The law also implemented the successful reorganisation of the geodetic catastrian system in the Republic of Croatia." There is also a project to take care of land books and catastras financed from the World Bank loan and with the assistance of the European Union, means through the CARDS programme and the state budget. As one of its successes, this government also emphasized the situation in land books. Furthermore, in the opening part of this proposal, the law also states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given its conclusions of 1 April 2004 a strong incentive to solve problems within the existing legal framework and it is found that it is not enough to solve all the accumulated problems and therefore is proposed to adopt a new law on state change and a real estate cataster, a proposal which is the subject of this debate today. And what it looks like in practice, I'm going to try to illustrate on an example. I was approached by landowners from Makarska whose country had been taken away from me in the former system. On that land there used to be a camper, today there's no camper, so the land isn't brought to the point, the land is empty. These owners were seized during the Yugoslav communist rule under the law of the "National Journal" 92/66. submit a request for a return of property or to be paid a market value fee, pardoned in 96th year "The People's Journal". The procedure is being conducted at the property-legal office of the institution in Makarska and has not been completed yet. That puts a ban on the land's particles. Despite the ban, however, their country is being sold, resold, and out of the land books they gave me, it is now a new name that appears in 2004. The alleged means the new owner of the country sold the same to one of the companies from Split and then the Hypo Alpe Adria Banka appears in Mostar, then the money is moved from Hypo Alps to Hypo Alpe Adria Banka in Klagenfurt. Then the country returns to the first alleged owner, meaning the one from the beginning of this whole story, to sell the country to a new owner of a one-year-old business in Makarska and all of this happened in 2004. So exactly the year it was written in the opening section, the government gave a strong incentive to fix the situation. And I think you're asking someone today in the Macaque Catastro who's the last owner of this country, so they don't know how to give you the right answer. I don't need to mention, of course, that throughout this entire time, the real owners of the country have been looking for, constantly renewing and demanding a ban on their country's particles until the process is over. It would, of course, be very nice if this were the only example in real life that illustrates the condition in the cathedrals and land books, however, it is only one in a series, and such examples I am convinced that there are many other cities. Everyone in their midst could probably say something like this, and it's problems that exist for years, a mess, and I don't think I'm going to use a hard word because I always try not to say anything difficult, if I say and corruption reigns in the land departments and nothing. The perpetrators of this situation are not sanctioned, i.e. now the shifts of some judges have begun, I am convinced that their suspicious affairs have been known before, but nothing has been done. Although some shifts were also carried out in the land department in Makarska, the landowner was brought in, the primary task was to sort out the situation, but when it was seen that the person, or that the gentleman had become too zealous in doing his job, was then removed to another duty. What am I trying to say to all of this? The government expects that the adoption of a new law will solve all the problems and riots we face in practice. The fact is that we can have no idea how good the law is, but whether it will be successful or not depends primarily on those who enforce it. If their work that often does not comply with the existing law is not sanctioned in time, then the problems are accumulated, and in the end we have a big mess where we don't know who drinks and who pays or maybe better to say knows who pays and who gets it. The fact is that it is one of the main requirements of the European Union on Croatia's path to becoming a full member. After all, it is undeniable that it is one of the key indicators of one country's arrangements and arrangements. Therefore, the key task of the government is not this but also any other government to seriously and vigorously deal with all the bad phenomena and behaviours in disaster because without the actual political will to deal with the situation, there will be no results. I repeat again, no matter how good the law is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81910	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81911	... She said the government didn't give a strong incentive just to take care of the catasters and the land books and their records. [[Specially enabled.]] I'm saying the opposite. The government gave a strong boost, allocated significant funds, used this World Bank loan and through the Geodetic Administration, the State Geodetic Administration defined the programme to measure individual catastrian municipalities where the situation was most critical. Here I'm just talking from my example, the Požega County 7 catastrian municipalities got a new measure, so, and the complete harmony of the cadastres and this. And secondly, here I am going to abuse a little time, you said that the return process taken during the communist rule was probably the end of the process. It's not finished yet. Whether it will be compensation in terms of the country's return or return in some other way it will probably decide how and how.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81912	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81913	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As many speakers have said and especially pointed out from the position and opposition, I think we can all agree together that the existing Law that we are now trying to change from this new legal proposal, therefore, dating from November, which came into force in 2000 and as, I say and I repeat, it is particularly pointed out that in a completely new way since ancient times, it has arranged the doing of state-measured and catastra real estate affairs in a truly one modern way. Perhaps I could immediately say that even today, a whole series of amendments to the laws that followed and some at the same time as the Law amending the Law on Land Books, then the Law on Property and other real rights, would not agree with the assessment that this Law that is in force has been overcome. And that it is necessary to change it, and especially in a way where certain standards that have already been brought back to life are kind of relativating them. This is exactly what colleagues from the profession have been talking about, although also from different positions, defending the profession and the Catastre Authority itself or those who represent themselves on the market fighting for each party. I don't think that's supposed to be the basis, or the main motive of lawmaking, and it seems that's the case. And to go back to this opening which is particularly well highlighted and what do we all agree on and then why interrupt it? Well, I guess we haven't been afraid of the good, common things that date back to 99, with the modern technology that here has enabled us and back a few years of almost incomprehensible speed how things with technology and a little goodwill can be brought to an end very quickly. Well, we didn't get scared of that. I must point out, therefore, other than this excellent legal basis that was passed, therefore, the Law and before 2000, which came into force in 2000 and which enabled a really good programme of state measures from 2001 to 2005, and then what allowed true realization to take place in the reform of landowners and catastras. So, besides this normative, it was the year 2002 when the contract was concluded, when the government concluded a contract with the World Bank, when we raised a 27m-euro loan. In addition, the same year and the following years more than 7 to 8 as when a million kuna is provided in the state budget for measuring and harmonising catasters and land books. It is often said here, and how I would immediately, although my colleagues do not have Rosic, but to make it clear to you all why it was not possible in those early years of reform to apply one of the ways that other transition countries had and often wrongly say. The synchronization of the cadastres and the landowners. This assumes that one of them is correct, but today unfortunately, especially in those beginnings, we had a situation that neither catastre nor even less landowners were responding to the real state. That the entry into the land was of one kind, in the cataster of another, and that really was a third condition. And that was one trouble we couldn't pass on even this Czech model, which in general in others, according to counterpart Rosic, was such that it generally corresponded to the real state. The truth is, the catastre had better data today than land. However, today unfortunately, we still have a situation where the last entry into the land book was made a hundred years ago. And for the crazy one then that we formed it, reshape that entry into electronic form, and what was already said here, to quickly get one incorrect piece of information. The point and purpose, after all, is that these funds are raised to bring the situation into line, that the landowner and the cadastre have the right records of the real situation and that those funds that were favourable, and that will still come expensive if they are not spent within an adequate time and I think we've already had a bit of cascade, if we see the implementation of the state budget, that these funds have not been spent or withdrawn as they were from the beginning and imagined. And we've spent a lot of money copying the wrong uncoordinated data. That's something we shouldn't brag about. I have to point out that in 2003, we had exactly the right and the right data 8%. It's not much, but the next one was supposed to go through one geometric progression. A year ago, two days ago, we had an entry of 15% shaped, transformed into a land book in electronic form. However, many of these are not accurate data. They're not even data that's consistent with the Catastre. So I think that this program, too, so the one with the World Bank, got a little bit lost somewhere because it doesn't make sense to reshape a land book in a way that overwrites old data. However, there remains something that needs to be noticed immediately and what is the lack of this Law that says nothing about composing, therefore, oh, and there is no real solution to our problem. Not particularly on your own urban co-operation. I know it's pretty painful for every government to do, but it's something we need to do and what we're going to need to do eventually. Likewise, we must imagine that we are a country that has a large number of particles, that countries that are three and five times larger than Croatia have the same number, a smaller number of particles, and that, of course, there is a big job here that is in front of the cathedral and in front of the landowner himself. The Austrians, of course, are also the problem of inheriting, of course it is one of the sensitive and painful issues, but it has already been solved by many other countries just to avoid depriving the parcels exclusively in their inheritance laws determine that only one person unless, in order to avoid a reduction in the plot of a certain size can inherit only one heir. So it's also something that many, or any government, are almost running away from this situation. However, we should mention something in which we got involved, which is not even mentioned here. It is mentioned here that in this reason for the urgency of the procedure that this is one of the basic reasons, that we need to comply with the Law of Property which was amended a little more than a month ago and the amendments have occurred, which essentially relativise the basic principle of land, the principle of full truth and trust in the land book and relativize the matter, and now we justify the adoption of this Law with this relativisation. Well, that's no reason to pass this law at all, let alone an emergency procedure. So the rabbit looks somewhere else. These are neither the reasons nor the reasons for the law being passed by an emergency procedure. But I note something that happened to us that we all missed it together, if it wasn't the government noticed, we had to be agents. In fact, the Law on Land Books contains a provision. We have just changed that provision several times that the lander must be reformed by 1.1.2007. That didn't happen. First it was until 2005, so we extended that deadline. This has been changed two or three times, and we have not changed that provision last year, and that is what needs to be done urgently. The truth is there are no legal consequences for entities who have not done so, but we are coming to an absurd situation and we are bringing into doubt people who have to act under this law. So there's no reason for this law to be passed by emergency procedure. It is equally incomprehensible that this legal proposal has a P.Z.E. code. when that label is P.Z.E. He was free to have an existing law because with this law, the standards and these standards are in some way relativating. What's been particularly pointed out and what I'm saying is red is I'm only going to say one sentence, and that should be seriously considered. So people who work geometers at the state office, i.e. administration and move freely on the market, cannot endanger competition in private, and they have secured all infrastructure and the question is under one means to be used. This is a fundamental problem and it is something that is contrary to the norms and standards of the European Union, and not yet called upon by introducing this main... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81914	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81915	In a number of incorrect allegations, here I will try only one, and for the distinguished representative, let him just drop by the Catastre Office in the City of Zadar from which he comes and he will see that the catastre has in a modern way arranged all its records, and you said that the catastre did not edit in the modern way the records it has. I'm telling you some catastres and at a time when there was still Yugoslav law they switched to automatic data processing, arranged their records in one real way. And if more time allows, you also said you called for one thesis that Mr. Rožić had, and I didn't have a chance to replicate where he went to the Czech model that you're confirming here to bring the practically cadastre into line with the land book, and you're like a lawyer and all of you as lawyers should advocate what is the constitutional category that property is intact, and what didn't happen to update property through time is another question.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81916	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81917	In short, in violation of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague hurt it because he was correcting something I didn’t say at all. I was just criticizing it, and I said that we don't even have cadastrian data to respond to today's real state, which is often the mistake of parties that don't report changes, and then. On its own, there are now some intensities to do so under official duty, and no one has spoken or disputed about the right of ownership, but property is equally binding and rightful ownership is now being regulated by their obligations as holders of real rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81918	Thank you. Do not debate under this institution any corrections, i.e. infringements of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the esteemed representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81919	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here is everyone in this debate, which was very specific and in which representatives of clubs and representatives in the individual debate came forward almost because of the importance of matter, out of the importance of the law which, the bill which was before us, pointed out the duty not to bring it into the urgent process, but to refer to another reading which is my fundamental point of view, because I think that matter is so important that in such a hasty debate without the quality of it, if you will and the public debate does not bring such a law that does not have in itself political connotations of large ones, but solves life issues and in this expectation that our representative of the club has already talked enough about the position of our club, and we have heard the comments of the other representatives and clubs. I will aim that if the motionor gives up the emergency procedure and eventually accepts to go into another reading or if he does not well-intentionedly warn him and troubles the compliance of this Bill with the Law on Hydrographic Activity, so if this problem of mine has grounds in that direction or the Proposer thinks it would be worth considering then there is time until Friday until the vote, i.e. to vote on amendments and on the full text of the law that I will eventually intervene in certain articles of the law and I will not submit the amendment. According to the Law on Hydrographic Activity, the legislator prescribed the obligation to form a catastra of maritime goods or whatever it is you want. According to Article 15. The law on the hydrographic activity of the maritime cadastre and records containing data on the sea, seabed and seashore is significant for the safety of navigation other than data of interest for defence, and has been established among other things by what the maritime cadastre contains, how it is constructed and managed. Now, if we look at the proposal of the State Measurement Act and the real estate cataster today, we would move on to Article 103 and 104 of the proposed text of the law, noting that the Law on Hydrographic Activity is particularly Article 5 that has multiple points, but I will only quote point 5. The law on hydrographic activity, which says: "Description and drawing of the geodetically defined limit of sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia at sea, respecting other regulations governing the state border, maintaining and monitoring the base of official data on the sea from the field of navigation, hydrography, etc., that we do not quote it and that it is the jurisdiction of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute. Therefore, in Article 7 of the Law, paragraph 1(3) states that State measure operations cover the measurement and labelling of the state border on land. This is explicitly stated in this proposal. At the same time, Article 103 provides that an authorised person may not carry out the activities referred to in Article 104 without the prior consent of the State Geodetic Authority, which means that the State Geographical Authority is authorised to measure and mark the state border on land, as this results from point 3 of Article 7 of this proposal of the Law, but is therefore authorised to grant consent to legal persons to start carrying out the activity of the measurement, marking and maintaining the state border because it is explicitly stated in Article 104(2) of the State border. Therefore, this would also mean at sea because it was declared to be Articles 103(2) and 104(1). I believe that this is an inconsistencies, so either in Article 7(3), it is necessary to amend and not to say that the measurement and labelling of the state border on land, but only the state border, or in Article 104(2), add to the performance of geodetic works for the purposes of measuring and marking and maintaining the state border on land alone, as referred to in Article 7 or to amend them to be consistent with each other. And it is not clear in Article 25 where the Catastrian Sea Area is spoken covers the coastal sea, inland seawater and territorial seas, the Epicontinental Belt of the Republic of Croatia and that part of the seashore which is in the maritime goods regime. At least I don't get it, which is why I'm troublesome, what about the ZERP, or the ecological-fishing belt, or tomorrow possibly the economic belt? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81920	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So it is evident that the issue of land books and cadastrian measurements is the subject most often referred to or very often present in the criticism and reasons that speak out of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy about the conditions that the European Union prescribes to bring them into line. It is usually precisely this criterion that is cited as the main argument that it would be shown that it is precisely for the continuation of certain economic activities but that is also very interesting for those economic activities that are related to the ino world. Critics means almost a sentence if we try to classify coming from the outside and they try in some way to impose themselves even above 'let's try to show the Croatian needs and real feelings what we need to do in order to reach a certain quality catastre and quality land books within Croatian legal norms and Croatian interests. Therefore, I personally estimate that some of the criticisms are exaggerated, that even the reasons that are said to be undoubtedly very questionable. Why question? In fact, it may sound paradoxical but I'm telling you at least when it comes to the Adriatic swimming pool, the islands that exactly this state of land books has been in these past 15 years the greatest protection of fast, safe and permanent sale of all real estate and land resources. Of course that fact and that fact is can't even be a valid reason not to continue, and the law of '99. Let's go so far as to say he set up a proper and correct path in which to go when it comes to state scale and real estate catastre and, of course, given this fact that I was talking about, which is, unfortunately, in the circumstances in which Croatia is located, let's say so by the attractiveness of our territory disproportionately power in Croatia and outside Croatia, that sometimes the slower way is a better way. That simply speed, haste, does not bring the expected profit if we can call it that, neither the benefit that a Croatian citizen nor the Croatian state can certainly register in that part. One part of the misunderstanding is in the fact that the Law on Property and other real rights that we have brought and in which the issue of tourist land has been resolved as one of the most sensitive elements that has been debated for almost three, four years, I think it's being dragged away from a distant '93. years here, and at the same time, everyday changes happen, because courts do their job. They make these decisions or decisions like that, the precedent becomes rules. Most of the vast potential that this country has in meters of square and square and value is located in a system that we cannot or at least legal experts have been able to agree on either at the level of the Administrative Court or at the level of the Supreme Court or through various thematic conferences at which I have participated in how, in which way and which is the current legal status of that land which has not entered into the assessment of the core value of the capital used by tourist or other companies, it is also used as part of the legislative guidelines to address the issue of land books and catastrases trying to solve the part of the area where they carry out their activity. So we have, in some ways, two drawbacks. The first is the lack of economic development being stopped because something cannot be resolved, and the second is perhaps even greater, that it will be dealt with against the law, so someone will become the owner of the land without paying for it. Therefore, any solution is better than a solution that is doubtful and a solution where you can come into possession of any property in a way that you do not pay for it. And I think that, in my opinion, the very significant impact that the Law on ownership and other real rights will have on the realisation of the continued reform in this part of the cadastre and the ownership books is one of the distinct dangers, and it is unequivocally that this law in its norms should, at least with special attention and with the thoughts that need to find answers to what I have asked as an open question, try to find a way to resolve it. In my view, this is with the maritime well-being that remains very doubtful, especially in terms of how we will make a marine goods cadastre, especially in terms of marine property, which is also one of the very demanding tasks and in terms of real life, but also in terms of how we position this overall progress in the legal norm, while also fulfilling those objectives that we can call social, common or national in terms of how to use this most qualitative part if I can say so in our territory. Therefore, all this points out, regardless of how late the legislator is, because some deadlines are missed precisely by those arising from the Law of Property and other real rights to fit in and if it is already late in those twenty days, but if it is too late, it might not be bad to consider that it is because of this complexity of material and implications that will cause it to go in two readings, and in my opinion it is one reasonable way to pass this as a consensus because I think we can't argue about what we need, we have no reason to argue in a way that simply doesn't benefit anyone. Therefore, if we take an additional twenty days to try this very open question to be better resolved or with special attention to try to resolve to pass a quality bill in a regular procedure that should have full function and to continue quality development in this field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81922	Thank you. Five minutes on behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished representative Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, just for a little while because it got out in the first part of me, so I couldn't even tell you everything, but that this is a very demanding law that we have to say a lot of things about. I will once again express my regret that this law has not been passed in a regular procedure in two readings regardless of the good solutions of certain areas. I dare say that it will remain a bitter taste and that in the long run we will all have consequences that will not be good. I would also like to point out once again that I am simply calling on the applicant to respect the amendments that we have submitted and concerns those areas which are legally omitted from urban or commercial land, from the catastra buildings, hence the detailed drafts and everything else, to particularly accept and geodetic surveillance, to regulate the relationship between the units of local self-government from those parts of the business that are in their jurisdiction, which are now in the existing law. I'm talking about market orientation, so it's inappropriate to solve this part of the problem exclusively within local self-government units or links only to the State Geodetic Authority. The same applies to the proposal that the State Geodetic Authority enters the market. We in the SDP find that unacceptable. It's simply unfair competition. It's about possible and corrupt action because wherever you open, you open the door a little bit, I'm not talking to you in general, it's possible to go in the other direction. So all together is not in the spirit of the market economy. And what's most important is that in these conditions, when we take care of each job, we take extra care of colleagues who are now in a position because of the inability to either finish college and get the authority or to hire authorised engineers to stay out of the field of work. I know that the proposed solutions are partly open doors for them and I can do one part of the work but it's only one small segment, first of all about the land cadastre and everything else that can be called the accompanying work in construction. Of course we all know how much effort has been made over the past period of time to get to what we have today and the fact is that we have made a terrible deviation from the '90s. I've been on this island for years and I've kept that all of us who are in the geodetic profession can be proud of it. For these very reasons, there is no reason to give up the service of these people and at the same time open the areas for the arrival of any foreign engineers, be it the creation of evil blood, so to say the divisions that I was certain we had grown long ago, divided into us, you, those who are on the market today, and those who are in the offices of the state administration. So the fate of our amendments depends on how we vote on this law and once again I call on us to take care of both the social sensitivity and the laws we make for the work of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81924	Thank you. And, finally, Secretary of State Davor, you're scrawny. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81925	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a quick look. I'd like to thank you for this long, but also for a constructive discussion. We've heard a lot of suggestions, remarks to the law, and quite an amendment has been proposed. We'll all do it until the vote as motions to consider it, but we would, so we'll see what we'll adopt, which is not to improve the text of the law, but you'd only say a couple, a few things. It's about the internship, about the compatriots and this. It's not the subject of this law. It's the subject of the Property Act. This is where we agreed with the courts, and in the 7th month of last year, an amendment to the Property Act was made, which has more detailed and better regulated the issue of the establishment of the so-called so-called Law. It's just that I've been working on a lot of things. It's now called the establishment of a special section, special parts. As for the commissions, they are subject to patriarchal laws and will be subject to the procedure. Normally, they'll be part of the geodes. This ministry personally prepares a new Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which will also contain provisions on urban cohesion and just before what she said, I am sorry to say that there is no Mrs. Anticevic but I must say there is no fear of this government or this Ministry to deal with urban cohesion. With all the instruments needed to implement spatial plans. The condition we found with spatial planning, remember what it was like? 157 plans adopted. Today we have 499. We count to me thinking 4, 5 months this year that we will have 99% of Croatia covered by spatial plans. That's what they haven't had in 15 years. Therefore this Ministry, this government has no fear and it has come into play with both lawless builders and with, and with irregularities in the cataster that we have identified especially when we have entered the process of destroying illegal construction and this, and we are conducting procedures and state geodetic administrations and geodetic inspections conducted and carried out, a lot of procedures are carried out in Zadar, Zagreb. Everywhere we have encountered irregularities, and we see very well irregularities beyond the Geodetic Administration through the procedures of location permits. So our inspection and construction and geodetic inspection sees it. So the failures we know, we know which people make them, we know the quality of work and this and all these solutions, and it's not exclusively who's going to do what jobs. That's one of the conditions. That's already been settled by the 1999 law. This is how this transition period ends, as you would say, and these people are not going to lose their jobs. I've repeated that on a few committees. None of them will be out of a job because they can continue to do some work only within their professional capacity and their expertise provided by the expert. I'm not saying that these people may not have some greater experience than some of them that they're going to get after a certain condition, three years of internships, and I don't know what, passed the exam, the title of an authorised engineer that one technician doesn't have, but this guy did finish college anyway. We have to respect that. This is about who's responsible. And when someone as a physical person works alone, then he's a responsible person and he signs it. There will always be an authorised engineer in the legal person who will sign it. Others are professional associates. We in Croatia must understand once that we can't all be bosses. We even look at the totality of the Croatian chamber of architects and engineers by all professions, we have too many authorised engineers. One Germany has much less than we do. We have 7,000 members in that chamber. Of which 737 authorised geodesy engineers. Ahead builders, then architects and others. 737 these are accurate data obtained from the chamber. 512 is, since the state geodetic administration gives consent, 512 is making the physical being legal. Of those 512, 178 of them are in the turn with medium professional equipment. These 178 crafts will continue to operate under this Law of these matters, which are laid down by this Law. These jobs they do are 95% of the jobs that Geodites do the most today. They work the most. The most they have... the land cataster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By the time we transfer all of this to the real estate cadastre, they'll all have work to do and they won't catch up. As for the fact that the Geodetic Authority will compete on the market, I would disagree. Maybe it's clumsyly written. We'll try to find a better expression, but it's about the following that often both these and medium-sized cooks and high-prepareds who have companies, crafts or in any form work do not want to go to some municipalities. Some municipalities that are far away in some areas that you can barely get. We've had a lot of demands from the municipalities. The State Geodetic Authority has asked certain authorised legal entities to do the job there. The Geodites won't go. Was he a craftsman, or was he an authorized Reverend, or do I not know which one? They don't want to go. We have to give these people a favor. We can't let these people down because a geodesy, I don't know, from Zagreb, Osijek, Split, Rijeka won't go away. He wants to go to Gospić but he won't go there I don't know a village because he has to climb across, through Velebit. It won't work. Someone's got to go. Someone's got to go, somebody's got to measure. Someone's got to do it. And that's it. And it is not competition that now the State, the State Geodetic Authority will have too much work to do in the market and compete on the market. As far as the outposts are concerned. They will be governed by the State Geodetic Administration Regulation as they are so far arranged, but we have said that we will step them towards the size of the business. So what Mr. Cain said now that we're going to close all the institutions in Istria, that's certainly not true. There's work to be done in Istria. Where there's work, where we have people out there will be outposts everywhere. And he's gonna do all those law-abiding jobs. Where it's estimated, and in these seven years, it's been established and seen in this new structure, and it's known, where there's not so much work to do, why now you have to hire an entire machine and maybe there's one item a day. It's unnecessary. It's pure rationalization. And then it can be done in the area office. You don't need an outpost. Or in some neighboring exhibit that has 50, 60 items a day. And to hold people and pay people in some way turns out to have all the powers under the law, and doing one item a day doesn't make sense. Here's what would be in the shortest, shortest lines. I say I thank you again for all the amendments. We will carefully consider them. We'll see what can be accepted, which we don't, but I think this law is valid. It's valid and I'm not saying it's bad. They wouldn't change it. We're, I'm saying there's about 40% of the changes in the current law, but because of that 40%, it might be better to agree on a new law than to make a change and supplement, and then be a mess of what's a change and a supplement, which is the law... It's a law that geodetics carry with them in the field, which every time they print then they print in that little blue book and you can see it, engineers usually have it, they like to keep it in their pocket, and then it's at their hands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as certain things are concerned, it was also for the Law of Ownership and this. It's not the subject of this law. Catastre is in the future, the real estate cadastre is support to the garter. He doesn't do property. He deals with List A, meaning changes to the state of once culture, today we call it legal regimes and what follows and what is the actual state of the particular property, who owns it, a copy of the ownership list that we're going to publish and which we're now issuing and today it's written in the law. It's not evidence property. It's proof of possession and a certain legal regime and information about something that's on a particular property, whether it's an orca, whether there's a house and land there today's a unique property, so that's it, and the garland is second. But by connecting to that unique database, we'll get it. Maybe we'll go faster than Mr. Shirac said. I know it's a big deal. I used to work on a part of those catastrian jobs myself. But I think this individual transformation is going to be waiting for large measurements on those hotspots and places where a strong investment cycle is expected, where we know that the real estate market is very lively to improve the situation and have on computers the exact data, not what we have now that we have to look at a bit of a cadastre then this. We'll have one database that'll give us everything. I'd like to thank you. It's pretty late.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81926	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. Tomorrow, proceed at 9.30 a.m. Proposal for a consumer protection law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81927	Final proposal of the State Measurement Act and the Realty Catastrophe. We have a lot of amendments to this law. Now let's do this. Let's get on the amendment table. Secretary of State Davor Snotty. What? ... Here's the deal, here's the deal. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Luka was first given, it is a privilege one, but the privilege has a basis in authority since he has already been in parliament for 5 seats, five mandates, five mandates in the parliament. Here, and fellow Radin he's four, he's a little less privileged. He's the smallest. Do we all have these plates? Well, then, let's take it in a row. Amendment one Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81928	The amendment is not accepted. It is not accepted for a reason because it is issues which are governed by specific laws such as the Law on Cooperation, the Law on Property.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81929	Proposer representative. Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81930	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State! We have proposed these two items, therefore, of land and catastre buildings. We believe that it is part of the work that should be covered by this law and that it is certainly part of the tasks that authorised engineers will do, regardless of what quality they are in. Indeed, we do not see any rational reason why these jobs are not covered by this law, despite the fact that more detailed provisions will be dealt with by another law. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81931	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment two. Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81932	It is partially accepted in a way that the word number is replaced by the word number.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81933	Representative Širac accepts this amendment. Therefore, the amendment in the amended form becomes an integral part of the law and is accepted. The third amendment, also Agent Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81934	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81935	Accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. Fourth, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81936	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81937	It becomes an integral part of the law. Fifth, Agent Mark Schirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81938	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81939	It becomes an integral part of the law. The sixth, same representative, Mark Schirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81940	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81941	It becomes an integral part of the law. Seven, representative of Mark Schirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81942	It is not accepted because it has been accepted through Amendment Six and it is a double amendment. Namely, twice the amendment to the same provision of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81943	It's consensual. Amendment seven withdrawn. Eight, the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81944	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81945	It becomes an integral part of the law. Ninth, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81946	It's unacceptable. In fact, geodetic surveillance as a special category is not prescribed as a term nor as such exists. The issue of expert supervision is linked to certain geodetic affairs and they are already resolved through the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81947	Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81948	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State to explain to us all here which laws have geodetic surveillance been settled? In fact, here it's very precise what geodetic works are for special needs. One of these is certainly geodetic surveillance which, of course, has a reflection in this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81949	Surveillance can be...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81950	Secretary! You know that's not doing business right now, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81951	He's not going, but he's... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81952	Vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81953	If I'm not asking for a vote, though it wasn't, I was kind to Mr. President to get one too many answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81954	What can I do to him when... Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The tenth, representative of Mark Schirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81955	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81956	It becomes an integral part of the law. Eleventh, HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81957	It's unacceptable. It is not accepted because, contrary to the already established system of engineering, it is in line with the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers, Construction and Guidelines of the European Union on how to perform the architectural and engineering activities under which geodesy engineers are included and the system itself has already been established by the now applicable law of 1999. So I think it's about continuity and there's no reason to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81958	Representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81959	Well, I didn't fully understand it, not completely, but I didn't fully understand the reason for both the marbles in the hall and the incomprehensibility of Mr. Secretary of State, but I'm not satisfied with the explanation at all. This amendment proposes equating craftsmen with legal persons and indeed there is no logical explanation why the craftsman in that section is not equated with any other legal person because the craftsman is quite... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81960	He won't be hearing from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81961	And a graduate geodesy engineer can be a craftsman. Therefore...... So, Mr. President, I'm only going to ask for a vote because obviously there's no intention of understanding me just as I failed to understand the Secretary of State, but I'm not satisfied with his explanation and I'm looking for a vote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81962	Bruises the wires, shaves the wires so they can, but that's not what some of them wrote on some famous list to make every blubber heard. From that list, so when we were imputed to quote the Chetnic songs here in the Assembly, it was about something else, it was about the marshals, not the Chetniks, right? Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment to the twelfth is already the same as before, so we don't vote on it. Thirteenth, Agent Mark Schirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81963	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81964	Thirteen.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81965	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81966	Ah, yes, thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. The fourteenth, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81967	The fourteenth amendment is not accepted. Namely, the proposed amendment considers that the proposer wishes to equate persons with high professional training, graduates and medium professional equipment, which derogates the already decorated system of performing tasks in accordance with acquired education, and introduces a new concept of authority for which it is not clear who gives him authority, for which work, which are the conditions, to which it corresponds, unlike the authorised engineers who are members of the chamber...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81968	Zdenka, get the representatives of this office over there to calm down because you're the most invited to do it. Yeah, yeah, did we explain...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81969	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81970	All right, then. Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81971	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment has the same meaning as previous amendments. Namely, the basic desire was to enable natural persons or craftsmen to continue their work. This way, in this respect, the power of the legislator, or legislator, and the legislator, will say, will be proposed and these legal persons will remain out of the field of work very quickly. Namely, here we hear contradictory statements. I asked myself to reflect on the previous composition to enter the frameworks of this law. Don't enter any points. You're rejecting him, but I'm glad that you've accepted the amendments from your colleagues, Shirtz, which applies to the same, so I expect you to at least be consistent with the standards no matter who proposes certain laws. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81972	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fifteenth, representative of Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81973	It's not accepted for the same reasons as amendment fourteen, actually it's almost the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81974	There are no MPs. We have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Sixteenth, Agent Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81975	It shall not be accepted for the reasons specified under Amendment 14. It's actually about the same amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81976	To vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? ... Comrade Lesar, we need you. Don't go. Stay with us. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're precious to us. You are one of our most precious representatives in this entire assembly. I'm asking you to stay with us. It went into the phonogram. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 17 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81977	This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81978	My colleague, Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81979	Nothing. He's got the same fate. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81980	Amendment withdrawn. 18 MPs, Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81981	The same shall not be accepted for the reasons indicated under Amendment 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81982	Is that the same thing?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81983	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81984	Then we don't vote on him. And he's been withdrawn, so we vote on him. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81985	It's not accepted for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81986	It's the same, it's already been consumed by Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81987	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81988	20 club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81989	This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81990	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81991	The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81992	The vote. Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 21 is identical, it's consummated.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81993	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81994	We don't have to vote 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81995	The same shall not be accepted for the reasons indicated under Amendment 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81996	There's a vote to vote on. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 23 members of Matt's general staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81997	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81998	It's part of the law. 24 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u81999	It is partly accepted in a way that the word "geodetic services" is added to the words: "which relate to doing geodetic jobs related to changing the way land is used and... in the procedures for the resolution of property-legal relations for state administration authorities and the processing of official data for state administration bodies of the regional (regional) and local self-government." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82000	A fellow Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82001	I didn't get a chance to hear all the arguments. But I'm not happy and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82002	And maybe if you haven't heard it, give it another shot at the marble.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82003	It is changed in a way that the words "geodetic services" are added to the words: "which relate to doing geodetic jobs related to changing the way land is used and... in the procedures for the resolution of property-legal relations for state administration authorities and the processing of official data for state administration bodies of the regional (regional) and local self-government." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they're strictly specific about what business these are, the geodetic services that it was about, just these three kinds of jobs that the field office should be doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82004	I'll take it. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82005	In that part, Agent Raven withdraws the amendment. In the second part, it is accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82006	Accepted through Amendment 24.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82007	That's right, yeah. But since the club of HSP representatives, does it agree? It's okay. Okay. Then it becomes an integral part of the law in changed form. 26 Advocacy Club of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82008	It is not accepted for the reason that it is not an activity for local self-government units to run a cadastar but rather for administrative activities of keeping records and issuing convictions and certifications about the lines, namely the recording and production of elaborate catastra lines by companies owners of these lines and they are obliged to deliver them to the competent authority of the local self-government unit leading the cadastre, the water cadastra records in accordance with the Regulation on the water cataster.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82009	Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82010	Yes, but it's in collegiate with what's in Article 95, which states Mr. Secretary of State that units of local self-government are competent to do the following jobs and, among other things, to set up and run a water catastra. It has nothing to do with the measurement, the measurement is something else. Therefore, it is very clear here that the State Administration should not do these matters and, in particular, under the Agreement on mutual rights and obligations. We are in favour of a market economy where we have enough experts on the market for legal and authorised persons but they are disabled by the basis of this bill. If I didn't get it right, then please clarify again because from this it turns out that only the units of local self-government or the competent state office will run these affairs, no one else. Is that true?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82011	How do we do it now?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82012	I know it's past the rules. But Mr. President, there's so much marble here that I just don't hear what the Secretary of State says. We've accepted it before.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82013	Okay. Let's do the marble one more time then, but then give it to your colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82014	In fact, it is not accepted for reasons because it is not about the local self-government unit measuring and doing measurements, but it will run a water cadastar as a water catastra operator in which data are supplied and the credentials are issued and confirmed in accordance with what is business and local and state administrations on these lines. Namely, the recording, the production of elaborate catastra lines are made by companies owners of these lines and they are obliged to deliver them to that competent body that will keep all the records of the water cadastra. It is therefore further stated in the law that two or more units can set up a joint department to keep that record. If I can't, and this is the situation on the ground now, then these management jobs and catastrian operatives will still be run by the State Geodetic Administration as they are led by them and now, because we have given the current law a transitional period for local self-government units to be established in that part of the year 99, so very few units have done it, and today it has to do it for some units, or local administrations' jobs, as a rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82015	My colleague Mato Gavran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82016	I get it. Of course, we cannot accept such an explanation because here it is very clear that the catastre will do these jobs regardless of what is the founder and task of running these affairs units of local self-government. So the local self-government unit can trust these jobs with another unit or catastro, but it can't go to the market, which is unacceptable for us. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82017	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 27 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82018	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82019	It's part of the law. 28 SDP representatives' clubs become an integral part of the law. 29 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82020	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82021	It becomes an integral part of the law. 30 of the same board?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82022	Sustained. It becomes an integral part of the law. 31 SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82025	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82026	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82027	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Thirty-two. The HSS counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82028	It shall not be accepted for the reasons set out in Annex 31.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82029	Representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82030	Well, then I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82031	The vote. Who's up for the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 33rd same... No, I don't need to vote because it's already been voted on. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] 34th Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82032	It shall not be accepted for the reasons set out in Annex 31. It's actually about the same amendment... [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82033	To vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 35?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82034	It shall not be accepted for the reasons set out under Amendment 31, i.e. it is the same amendment as... [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82035	The same thing doesn't need to be voted because it's identical and it's rejected. 36. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82036	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82037	It's part of the station. 37th of the same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82038	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82039	It's an integral part. The 38th of the same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82040	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82041	It's an integral part. 39th Representative Mark Schirtz?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82042	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82043	It's an integral part. The 40th of the same agent?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82044	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82045	It's an integral part. The 40th of the same agent?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82046	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82047	It's an integral part. 41st of the same representative? [[Intruder: Legislative Committee.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82048	The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82049	The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82050	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82051	It's an integral part. 42. - The board of directors?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82052	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82053	And 43. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82054	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-24-0.u82055	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 67 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 12 against the proposed law in the text as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out the revision of the text of this law before its publication in the National Journal. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 76 votes for, one abstention, one against the proposed conclusion. The conclusion submitted by the HSS Representatives Club does not comply with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The rules of procedure, because it's the EU law and so on, are withdrawn. Thank you very much.
