ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83888	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. The Republic of Croatia is making excellent progress towards full membership of the European Union. After the historic opening of the negotiations on 3 October 2005 in Luxemburg, we have been behind us for almost a year and a half of the accession negotiations process, years and a half closer to achieving one of the most important national goals. And here I would like to point out that for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the basic thought is to lead negotiations with quality agreed on from the aspect of the protection of the most important national interests, not exclusively their speed. It is a matter of the process in preparation for this process, in preparation for action in the conditions of full membership, both state institutions and the economy and all segments of society. I would say that the current context of the accession process to the European Union is determined by the following components. Meeting the obligations arising from meeting the conditions for membership, negotiations and implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, strengthening administrative and judicial capacity to effectively implement the acquis of the European Union, achieving maximum efficiency in the use of pre-accession funds and implementing a communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the European Union and the accession of the European Union. The key mechanism for the coordination of all reforms being undertaken is precisely the document that is before you today, the National Programme for the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Surely you note that the name of the document has been changed, stressing the advanced phase of Croatia and the European Union's relations and the negotiation process. The MPPU in 2007 is already the fifth such document in a series of preparations that began in September 2006. Following the adoption by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at a session held on 18 January this year, the National Programme was sent to the Croatian Parliament to provide representatives with information on all concrete activities arising from the accession process to the European Union. As in previous years, we propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Supplement A of the National Programme, which contains a list of all the laws that will bring Croatian legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union in 2007. I would like to emphasise that the national programme was drawn up on the basis of the second report by the European Commission on the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the accession process of the European Union and still the current accession partnership of February 2006 whose audit is expected at the end of this year. In addition, the programme contains short and medium-term tasks based on the evaluations of the European Commission in the Report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the process of accession to the European Union as well as the obligations arising from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I want to stress one important circumstance. Namely, on the basis of the report on the results of the analytical review of the compliance of the legislation, etc. The screening produced by the European Commission for each chapter, which we are still expecting for significant negotiating chapters, and on the basis of the results of the accession negotiations, we expect to approach the revision of the national programme. It is realistic to expect and such messages have been received from the German Presidency, that by April 2007. Croatia will receive all reports on the results of an analytical review of the harmonisation of legislation. In accordance with their results as with the adopted negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia, we predict that we will review a series of chapters of the National Programme during May of this year, which we will report to the Croatian Parliament. It does not exclude the possibility that there will be changes in the total number of laws to be passed during 2007 to reduce or increase them. I would like to emphasise another moment in the joint fulfilment of the obligations arising from the negotiation process. We're in election year. During the fourth quarter of 2007, regular parliamentary elections were planned. I point out that the circumstances in question have an objective impact on the time range of legal acts in the current year, which has had a direct impact on the determination of legislative priorities in certain chapters, which are contained in this plan. In setting priorities, priority is given to meeting the commitments made under the negotiation process, i.e. the obligations arising from the completed reports on the analytical review of the harmonisation of legislation and the negotiated positions regularly reported by the National Committee for the Monitoring of the Negotiation Process. This confirms the credibility of the Republic of Croatia as a candidate country determined to meet all commitments taken in due time and avoids the situation for the European Commission to establish a negative effect on certain negotiating chapters in the event of a failure to fulfil its commitments in the 4th quarter of 2007. Let me briefly present the structure of the document. The national programme is based, as every year, on the criteria for membership in the European Union. All planned activities not only of legislative nature are further continuing activities carried out during the past year. The novelty in the structure of the programme is that this year, with a review of legislation, it contains a summary of all implementation measures for 2007 of which almost half is a direct result of the negotiation process. It is a whole series of follow-up measures that support either commitments taken by negotiations or ongoing reform processes. Compared to last year's, this year's MPPU 2007 programme does not contain a specific chapter on strengthening administrative criteria, but in Chapter 3 we have drawn up the portfolio of each chapter of the negotiations with relevant legislative measures and all related implementation activities. That, I believe, has given us a better insight into what's going to happen and how it's going to go. In the current year, we foresee the adoption of 55 laws and 228 regulations, and around 170 implementing measures. It is visible that the harmonisation of legislation will continue intensively in 2007, particularly in the context of negotiations on membership of the European Union. Starting from what I have pointed out, we have quarterlyly allocated the obligations as follows: First, in the first quarter, we are predicting the adoption of 17 legislative proposals. In the second quarter, we predict the adoption of another 28. And in the third quarter, there are 10 legal proposals left. Finally, but no less importantly remains the issue of providing financial resources for the purpose of carrying out all the activities envisaged by this programme. The 2007 budget is in line with the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 and projections for 2008 and 2009. This provides for allocations for euro integration activities of 1.9 billion kuna for 2007. Complementarity with our own budgets has also been shown by the planned funds of foreign aid. Appendix B also provides a systematic review of the current and planned technical assistance, projects and investment programmes in the Republic of Croatia supporting the implementation of the National Programme for Accession to the European Union. Foreign aid funds include programmes and assistance and cooperation with the European Union, other multilateral aid sources, bilateral assistance programmes received by the Republic of Croatia and loans from international financial institutions, such as assistance, donations, loans and the like. Ladies and gentlemen, by presenting the new National Programme for the current year, I am assessing how it reflects the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to implement concrete measures to achieve short and medium-term priorities in the process of approaching the European Union and is a very important step towards achieving the strategic objective of full membership in the European Union. To achieve this goal, it is important to continue to make every effort to meet the priorities of the accession partnership, political and economic criteria, obligations arising from membership. We need to pay particular attention to the fulfilment of the commitments made under the negotiation process and further harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union and to the strong development of institutions that will be in charge of its implementation and implementation. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I propose that the Parliament adopt an addendum to the National Programme, which contains a review of the legislative measures under way in 2007, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83889	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration? President of the Committee, the Honorable Representative of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83890	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. At its 45th session yesterday, the European Integration Committee discussed the proposal for a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union and supported the proposal in the debate. It was supported unanimously by all members, members and members of the Committee. In the debate itself, it was pointed out that the National Programme as a total, whole document has been methodologically improved, that it has been very reviewed and that it allows for work to be seen, reform work that is both before the Parliament and before the Government in the next, in practice this current year. In the Committee's debate, too, the need for a plan of accession or a plan of harmonisation of Croatian legislation to be implemented by the end of this year is expressed. So that there are no delays as they were recorded in previous years, because this time, this year, the plan, the implementation of that plan, is directly related to the dynamics of the negotiations. The Committee also expects a revision after the overall process of screening is completed, or after an analysis of the state of the Croatian legislation has been completed, which will allow the Croatian Parliament to get a complete picture of the necessary harmonisation of legislation in the coming years and not just in 2007. Here, in short, the Committee supports and proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a plan for the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83891	Thank you. The Justice Committee? The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83892	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, For the fifth time, the Croatian Parliament has the opportunity to learn about the overall content of the necessary adjustments for Croatia's accession to the European Union described in the Annual National Programme. This time that program comes before us under a new name. The national accession programme instead of the date of Croatia's accession to the European Union. We welcome the fact that the government has finally learned the true nature of the process that is taking place with the European Union, and now finally confirms that Croatia is in the process of accession and not just joining the European Union, since Croatia has been an associated member of the European Union since 2001, when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is signed. The start of negotiations on Croatia's accession to the European Union has also set new requirements and challenges for the planning of legislative and overall reform adaptations to European criteria. The National Programme itself describes well, content and transparently the situation in certain areas of adaptation and sets out the necessary and planned reform moves to which we will make further adjustments. As a result, it is also easy to conclude that there is still a large part of the reform work before the government and all institutions. Unfortunately, for three years, the government's mandate was not enough for a significant reform shift, so the inventory of the situation shows that most of the work is just ahead of us. It can therefore be said that three previous years, lost years for the reform process in Croatia. This is directly confirmed by the government itself in its communication strategy, where for the first time in one official document, it stated that Croatia's readiness for membership would be achieved in 2009, not in 2007, as planned by the previous government. This delay in the deadline for completion of internal reforms is expected to result from the fact that the government has been showing a marked slowdown in proposing legislative reforms and implementing them in practice for three years. As evidence, it is enough to look at the relationship between planned and adopted European laws. In 2004, 32 laws were passed out of 45 planned. In 2005, this relationship was 44 to 30, and last year we came to an even more devastating dose, of 59 planned and only 24 adopted European laws. So in three years out of 148 planned laws, 86 laws or just a little more than half of the plans planned to bring European legislation into line. I know that on this criticism, representatives of the government and MPs of the parliamentary majority will now come up with inconclusive claims that quality is more important than the number of laws passed. Unconvincibility, however, stems from the fact that the number of laws planned was not imposed but was proposed by the government each year. So either she had a bad plan or she had a bad plan. This time in the legislative alignment plan with the acquis of the European Union in 2007 indeed and simply there must be no difference between planned and achieved. This is because it is planned for the first time from a joint analysis of the legislative coherence that our and European sides have drawn up in the negotiation process. The delay in the adoption of planned laws will mean a lag behind and a slowdown in the dynamics of the negotiations. The stakes this year are far, far higher than ever before. In the SDP, we support this established legislative harmonisation plan with the acquiss of the European Union. However, we do not think that it is overly ambitious and we are sure that after the overall legal harmonisation analysis has been completed, in which the European side will have to make a much later revision of this plan and complete it with new laws. And that, regardless of all of this year's additionally planned legislative activities in the House, we will have to finish in 3 months instead of 4 months for the election. Completion of the overall analysis of the consistency of our legislation after the so-called "screening" will be an opportunity for the government to present to the parliament and the overall legislative harmonisation plan for the whole range of the work until its final completion. It is no longer enough for the Parliament to know only about the annual segments of harmonisation of legislation. Planning on the dropper is hopefully behind us and now we must have a full picture of expectations of the parliamentary legislative activity on the European plan. So we expect and before the summer break, the Government shall send the Parliament a full plan of harmonising the remaining part of the legislation with the introduction of legislative projects and the annual dynamics of this harmonisation over the next two, three years, which is the deadline for the completion of this demanding job. Only when the Parliament knows how much, how much more legislation should be passed to fully comply with the legal acquis of the European Union will we be able to say whether the Assembly should adopt as many as 55 laws or only 55 European laws in this year? In this debate on the harmonisation of national legislation with European legislation, it is also necessary to point out that it is not so rare that the procedure for the urgent adoption of European laws is also used to make it easier to say so and some legal solutions that do not have a foothold in the legal property of the European Union but are proposed because of the internal needs of the ruling ones. In those cases, the P.Z.E. markings shall be used. puts most of it on the ground of almost non-essential alignment with the European acquis, and then, more importantly, much more important but much more problematic solutions that are part of these internal needs under the European cap. This practice should be avoided in the same way as the practice that some undoubtedly European laws are not put into P.Z.E. procedure. I will not miss out on this opportunity to stress again the previously delivered SDP's belief that accession negotiations with the European Union will be as successful and high-quality as the adjustments, reforms and internal preparations for membership in the European Union, and not in any way vice versa. For the SDP, it doesn't matter what kind of Croatia will enter the European Union. For us, the benchmark of success is not the speed but the quality of Croatia's entry into Union membership. That is why our emphasis on completing the reforms, on Croatia's internal preparation so that we do not enter the Union unprepared at far greater economic and social costs than objectively necessary. The legislative adaptation plan and its real implementation are an important component of this effort to achieve a better life in better Croatia. The SDP today is as optimistic as it was yesterday and as it will be tomorrow. When we criticise and question the government's reform capacity, we do not plead against Europe or the alliances for Europe that some would want to frame us. By directing the government's reform incompetence, we are in fact strengthening the alliance for Europe's Croatia that is more important and necessary for us than the alliance for Europe, as the HDZ imagines it. It is important for Croatia to enter the European Union but it is even more important for Europe to enter Croatia. In relation to the National Programme itself, it is to praise the progress seen in predicting the financial impact or cost of implementing the envisaged new laws for the state budget and state as a whole. An improved methodology in the analysis of the financial impact of the new legislation shows that over the next three years, the cost of legislative adjustments will be around two billion kunas each year. For a full and legal picture of the costs but also the benefits of joining the Union, and for the purpose of dealing with European Euroscepticism, it would be good to do an additional effort to identify the demonstration and the positive side, the positive effects of the change of legislation in any particular case, because it no doubt has them. And another note. In addition to the calculation of the financial and budgetary effects of new legislation, it will be necessary to develop both the ability and practice of making so-called. the overall regulatory impact of the new legislation. As part of the better regulation project, the European Commission has just announced that it will no longer propose any regulation for which no regulatory impact analysis at the micro and macro-level of the economy and society has been previously made. So much for the demanding work that awaits us in adapting our legislation to the European legislation. Finally, for the SDP, the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with European legislation will be an extremely important area of contribution from the Croatian Parliament to Croatia's successful entry into EU membership. We believe that this work in both the Parliament and the National Committee should be based on a reasoned dialogue of political parties on the best solutions not only for negotiating issues but primarily for issues that are seemingly European and, in their essence, sound development and reform issues that will determine our readiness for membership but also our position in future membership in the European Union. It is perfectly legitimate that on these development issues the parties have and offer their vision and their solutions regardless of whether we are in pre-election, election or post-election years. In summary, the SDP will support the adoption of a legislative harmonisation plan with the acquis of the European Union in 2007 and expects the government to first ensure consistent and full implementation of the adopted legislative plan, thus allowing lags, possible lags to not slow down or threaten the dynamics of accession negotiations with the European Union. Secondly, the Government will soon adopt a revision of the 2007 legislative plan based on a final analysis of the harmonisation of legislation by the European Union and will then propose to the Parliament and the full harmonisation plan of the legislation by dynamics in all years to come. Thirdly, it will improve and implement the methodology for developing the regulatory impact of the new legislation, which will be an integral part of the reasoning of each new legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83893	Thank you. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83894	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Minister. Well, the first thing I have to say on behalf of the HSP Club is that we are glad to hear that the SDP has also adapted to our position, and others that it is not about joining the European Union that is important, but rather about the quality of the negotiations. That's what we said four years ago, we're talking today, and that's what we're glad to hear today. Because when they were in power, they said different things. And I hope HDZ understands the same situation that speed is not important but important. And why are we saying that at the Croatian party of rights club? Because we believe that, today, when we talk about a new proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union, we need to talk openly about a number of important facts. First of all, the fact that it was also about the former governments and what these governments are about. Do you still believe that the literal translations of the Directive and the guidelines are the harmonisation of the legal legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal gains of the European Union? Is that what you still think? In Croatia, will we continue to align Croatian legislation with the acquiss of the European Union if we receive literal half-translations of the Directive or guidelines of the European Union? Do you know how devastating it is for legal certainty or legal uncertainty? Every regulation we've ever received is a matter of urgency, which we have witnessed ourselves. We also had cases in this assembly that we were getting totally literal translations, even if there was a missing page, it was particularly visible from Minister Calmeta's portfolio. We were getting legal proposals that were marked P.Z. There has been talk of legal, harmonisation of legal property of the European Union or of Croatian legislation with the acquiss of the European Union that 20, 30 articles were missing. So if we continue to comply with our legal regulations, we will lead to total legal uncertainty. But what else is important to say? It is important to say that every law we now call European law also requires the adoption of a number of tens and sublaws. Do we make such legal regulations, or governmental ministers? They're not bringing it in. And what does this mean for legal certainty and what does this mean for the exercise of the rights of Croatian citizens, what does this mean for the overall state of legal certainty on the principle of rule of law? Is that what we're gonna talk about? In these forest regulations this Croatian Parliament will be remembered for producing a single legislative stampede. Just take the fact that so far we've brought in something about 379 legal regulations, which was, 72% of them were an emergency procedure. If this continues, neither lawyers nor state administration can monitor it, nor can citizens follow it. Thus, it is one of the great problems that needs to be spoken out of the open today. Apparently, the government doesn't have a team, mainly in some restaurants, the legal profession is not at an envious level. If this is all that comes as a semi-translation of a directive or guidelines, the Office of the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia passes, it is already a signal for an alert. Look at the legal regulations we get under P.Z.E. from any government vault. Then there's this variant that there's a huge number of amendments. Finally, what this means is the application and implementation of the rules. Another thing that is important to speak at the position of the HSP club is whether we will once determine exactly what it means on the one hand to negotiate, and what it means to bring Croatia's legislation in line with the legal gains of the European Union. If we put everything we're asked to do immediately into our legal regulations, then what are we negotiating? What do we negotiate if we put right away that foreigners can buy real estate, if we put everything the European Union is looking for, what are we negotiating? What are we negotiating? Well, you don't know what we're talking about here. That's the whole problem. So let's take advantage of the experiences of other countries that have passed that entire course. On the one hand, and the policies of the former government and of this government in terms of negotiation, it is such that we accept on the one hand the full demands of the European Union as a whole, and on the other hand we accept the requirements of individual members of the European Union. Now, what kind of policy is that? And what are we negotiating? And what kind of future do we offer to Croatian citizens if we negotiate this irresponsiblely? You have a situation that every time Italy blackmails you from one side. Slovenia will blackmail you from the other side. The European Union as a whole. And then what are we negotiating? Which is why we have so many within the negotiating team in chapters. They're just traveling and openly saying we're coming there, telling us what we need to do and going back. Then we say to the Croatian public are these negotiations? Are we protecting national sovereignty? Are we protecting the rights of Croatian citizens? Do we allow them to have a future? Therefore, let us not be irresponsible to the legal profession and say when we are harmonising our legal gains, then we are harmonising it to our legal standards. Normally, we must accept what are legal gains, but do not accept everything that is part of the negotiations, which is part of the negotiations on the issue of privatisation, on the issue of HEP, on the issue of other privatisations. Now you will come up with normal demands that agricultural land can also be bought so that natural resources can be bought. Is that a negotiation? They're not negotiating. It's a clean blackmail plea and then we're saying we're going to Europe. So each member of the European Union takes care above all of its interests, and then normally manages and cares in the interests that are at European Union level. And that's how we're supposed to act. We should act responsibly and protect the interests of our citizens, have a legal system that will be such that it will enable the equal position of all Croatian citizens against the laws. And we don't get the forest regulations without actually knowing what the situation is and what it is that we don't know in the Croatian Parliament. Take the executive law, take the executive law. When we brought him in, he was in line with the legal gains of the European Union. And most of us, except for us in HSP, were in favor. And in the end, what happened? The poverty suffered because it was brought under cover of compliance with the legal gains of the European Union, and they are brought under the dictatorship of the banking and monetary institutions of those who are now carrying out the performance over the poor whether it is Croatia's television over the TV subscription. We know the situation ourselves, and how many people are in the executive procedure, and who earns it? They earn the same banking and money institutions and earn lawyers. It means whether or not we're finally doing regulations and so on. European, simulate them. If we don't simulate them, if we don't know what will ultimately look like to apply and enforce such a regulation, then we better not do that job. Because this meeting will then remain remembered as a meeting of the Croatian Parliament that caused the legislative stampede and which brought legal uncertainty to Croatian citizens. When the government will finally come out and say why it has not passed over 70% of the regulations under the law, and the law cannot be applied without sublegal regulations because it is always in all situations where it is not known how and how each issue will be resolved, then it goes to the legal variant that it will be dealt with by sublaw. That sublegal rule is gone, and here's the last thing that happened to you about the Security Service Act, we were supposed to do within a month, the government was supposed to pass sublegal regulations, it didn't pass, and then it's going on a variety of legal interpretations, this one or that one. So this is an irresponsible relationship between the Croatian governments and ourselves in the Croatian Parliament for allowing us to enter that legislative stampede which we do not know why we are voting and not simulated the application and implementation. On the other hand, make sure you're out there, Mrs. Pusic, you've been there, so you should learn something, but obviously you haven't learned how to take care of that, one law that's in line with the other law. Unfortunately, here you see legal knowledge is little in this assembly and that is what, the biggest problem will be for Croatian citizens, because if we do not behave responsibly we will have what we have now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83895	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83896	It is incorrect that his colleague said that he had changed the executive law that the HSP alone was against the adoption of the law. It's just not true. I don't remember whether they were in favour or against, I don't get into it, but the SDP club has been vigorously against such changes that have violated that evenness that we introduced into the executive law in 2003, and by which the actual performance has now become swift and effective towards the poor citizens, in general towards the citizens, and when that same state is around, it is fast when the state is looking at them, but when that same citizen is looking for something towards that country or another citizen, it is still too complicated and slow. We only get a quick and effective performance when banks and financial institutions come against citizens as debtors.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83897	The club of representatives of HSS, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83898	Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here after the inspired speech of fellow Kovacevic, here I will also try a few sentences related to this alignment plan with the addition of a) of the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia. I must say, although here when we look at two or three pages, we all know that there are laws here, their importance is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia, for all of us, and I think that this whole work that is ahead of us, which is before the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we all need to join as closely as possible in the most responsible way possible. Therefore, it has already been pointed out here that speed, quantity and coverage are not at this point the most important thing to take care of, so I believe that the Government will also take care of this when it proposes certain laws than it is much more important which quality and what laws we adopt and what is the possibility of applying them. In that part, we certainly all see what we do not have and, unfortunately, what we warned about last time when this proposal was adopted, a) the National Programme concerning the accession of the European Union for 2007, because we did not get the reasons again for what was planned in 2006 and what happened with these proposals. I think it would be extremely important that when we have and when we bring in a specific plan for a certain year, then we really need to hear what's going on with those draft laws that were on the list that weren't implemented in 2006. I will only mention here those laws that were in 2006, and from the sector are agriculture, and they are not addressed even though they were planned for 2006. This is the Law on the Protection of the Variety of Agricultural Plants, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Food Act, the Law on Veterinary Law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Waters, the Law on the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on Amendments and the Supplements to the Hunting Act. It should be mentioned here that no laws are sent in the procedure which are more important and significant for agriculture, since the solution from the same directly or indirectly reflects on agriculture, primarily here it is about the Law on concessions, of course one of the most important laws, that is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cooperatives. If there are reasons for an analytical review of certain chapters by the European Commission, and in connection with concrete legal projects, then, in our opinion, the Croatian Parliament, which brings forward the legislative harmonisation plan, brings more to the point that many, for the past year, planned legal projects are now in this plan and we do not see it. I think it's important to point out what happened to those things that were planned in this part, and now that we don't see them here and what happened to those legal acts, that's for example. The Law on Amendments to the Hunting Act, which was in 2006, was no longer done with it in 2006, and now nothing is planned for 2007, so there are some reasons, it is not possible that something happened in the meantime. If it did happen, we think it would be important for us to do it in a certain way and to explain what this is about. As regards agriculture and agricultural producers, as regards the legal conditions which will need to adapt their production, it would be good to get at least indicative information in which the scope of this area other than this plan will be harmonised with the legal property of the European Union, i.e. in which direction that plan will be revised in May as in the supplementary explanation sent here. The peasants and all of us are also interested in whether and in which direction the system of support will be coordinated, of course and incentives as one of the basic regulators in agriculture itself. All of this so far goes in favor of the thesis that it would be good for the Croatian Parliament to get the information why the act it brings has not been carried out, to this problem as I have already said we have warned before, but I sincerely hope the clarification will give us here a minister. And now we reiterate that it would be good for the government of the Republic of Croatia to report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the plan for the past year before the legislative procedure of the proposal for a legislative harmonisation plan for the current year. If not as a document, then at least as information to get to know the MPs in order to have a full picture before the vote, because this is a plan, unfortunately, only the sum of the list of laws that make up the resolutions from which strategic development and commitment regarding legal activities cannot be read in the process of adapting to the acquis of the European Union. Of course, I don't think we'd stay on this, I'd say more formal things about this proposal, and I think it's necessary to highlight those clear definitions that relate to the European Union's own accession process. Therefore, on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party here, I would like to make it very clear that our views in this regard are not changing. We're not even the euro of skeptics, we're not too much of an optimist, we're just trying to be the euro of realists. I think that every law and every legislative act that is adapted, in particular, is a detailed analysis and a clear way out of it to look at what it brings to the Republic of Croatia, which makes it adaptable to certain sectors and everything that comes from it. Unfortunately, we are getting a general impression in which some things are being tried I would say for political reasons to speed up, without having a good view of the overall situation that a single European directive, when most directly applied to our Croatian legislation, when applied to our regulations, means specifically for one situation in our country. I think that should take more care of it, even for reasons of being in some things, I'd say a little slower. Here when I talk specifically about some laws relating to agriculture, primarily here, I can also mention the Veterinary Act where we already have, I would say, certain regulations that are definitely trying to make us go ahead of time and ahead of the opportunities that are currently in Croatia. I think it's a very important thing in which one inter-resorship cooperation should be extremely large, estimating the ambition and political goal that the government has. However, this political goal must not be put above the goal of what stems from any legal act in any way. So when we are discussing today and we are talking about the need to put these laws into practice, that it is necessary to adopt them and that they are extremely important because of certain objectives, then each of them should be analytically brought into the situation in which we can assess it, what will in particular cause it in its application in the Croatian economy, here I am specifically considering agriculture, and what will happen when it is applied? If we see that some of these laws or some of the implementing acts stemming from the law are negatively affected by the situation in which Croatian agriculture or the Croatian economy would be found, then we must find ways to make such legal acts or regulations in accordance with the times and with the adjustment that Croatia needs. It is not necessary to stress in particular that all these laws that are listed here today are not for the reasons of our political goals of joining the European Union, but they must primarily be found here because of our internal affairs, because of our reforms that Croatia must do. Unfortunately, I must conclude that this government in terms of reform is not going at the pace that it should be, they can be most directly referred here to the agriculture sector, where unfortunately of those announced reforms that we should have already been able to say freely that we have missed almost 3.4 years, yet one step in the adjustment that we necessarily need. We believe that the situation regarding this part of the overall reforms in Croatia does not go in that dynamic and the desired part, not to mention these other sectors in which it is even worse. I think that this part of the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union is in this Appendix A only listed laws, but I think that there are many, many more obligations not only of the Croatian government but also of us in this European Parliament, so I believe that we have the work to do for all of us in this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83899	Thank you. HNS representative club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83900	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Every time we talk about a plan to adapt to the acquis of the European Union, we are actually talking about a plan to change ourselves. Not because we now have some opponent to negotiate with, some secular world power, the Masonic, I don't know what kind of one, who wants to break us and break us, but because we understand and accept for ourselves the fact that our behavior, the functioning of a complete society, including the judiciary, of course, and, including legislation, we need and we want to adapt to the standards that apply in the world in which we would like to live tomorrow. So, this dilemma about whether it's adapting or negotiating is actually a false dilemma. It's not about each other. It's about changing ourselves. Now how do we change? We're changing planically, of course, how different. This material, extensive material, a couple hundred pages that we've got is a good description of the task. The inside proportionally, transparently, clearly writes what needs to be done, at which rate the government would like to do so. Unfortunately, however, there is no guarantee that the government will do so at that rate. The very ratio of the laws planned and passed, the European laws last year 59 planned, 24 adopted, speaks of the government's tendency to think intensively about the bright future, to plan extremely optimistic, to promise anything to promise and a little above that. But when it comes to realisation, things slow down a little bit. Of course, there are objective circumstances that have slowed things down. Of course, it may be smart and smart sometimes to slow down and not chase ahead of some evaluations that will come from the European Union with rules that may be due tomorrow. But it could be understood that this ratio is 59:45. But if the ratio that less than half is planned is realized then there's something wrong with the plan because no one forced us to do it. This plan was proposed by our government, adopted by the majority in this Parliament, adopted by the entire Parliament, and now if we suspected we would not be able to implement the whole, let's go, but if we happen to spend less than one half, then something with the planning process and the implementation process is wrong. The 2007 plan should be more serious and more realistic. It is not because this year it is some kind of crime as it is already not a crime, but because we are in a phase of accession to the European Union which is much more serious and where we are seen more seriously. Regardless of these folklore conflicts with Italy, Slovenia, which our leaders and their leaders are already fighting with. We are in a phase of accession when the European Parliament and the Council of Europe see us as equal participants in the accession process. And as such, we just can't afford to make plans that we'll make with 40%. That's unserious. It is, I don't know how to say it myself, but in any case it isn't, it can't be taken under a description of a serious government that really intends to bring this country into the European Union. What this government will not do, of course, but its successor will inherit her actions. Among other things, it's costing all of this. And this job costs money. This job costs 6 billion, 6 billion kuna in the next three years. Exactly 6 billion 113 million and a little bit of kuna. So 2 billion a year. Yesterday, we were able to read the World Bank experts' opinion that it is a worrying level of poverty in Croatia and that this level of poverty in Croatia could be practically analyzed with a billion-and-a-half-euro financial injection. This is costing two. I do not want to say in any way on behalf of the Croatian People's Party that we should act as Americans to the space program. First we'll put everything on the ground and then we'll go upstairs. No, we should go to Europe. We just need to make sure that money, it's serious money, that that money is spent well. That money in the final instance is worth it. And I think that the Ministry of European Integration could give us one representation of the other side of this scale, i.e. What we're going to do with these six billion kunas invested and practically invests in improving the state administration, the functioning of the state, and so on. What are we gonna save? Because if we create new European bodies that will lead us to Europe in a European way, obviously, to remove some Balkan bodies that have held us in the Balkans. It can't be that everything stays so that that's all they upgrade to, that they upgrade some new bodies, some new agencies, some new organizations that cost money. That bill, that balance, I think the Ministry should give us. If nothing else is to ensure that all of us are equally and equally committed to promoting the European, Croatian approach to the European Union because statistics and surveys of public opinion are not particularly in favour of this path. That's about 50%. There will be a referendum in the end. I am convinced that this referendum will pass. I am convinced that the situation before the referendum will improve, but we are also in charge of repairing this situation. We can fix it if we have arguments. One of the arguments is that. Coordination is meeting certain conditions. However, harmonisation and willingness to accept standards in practical life, and that is more important. If a government like one of my predecessors here told us sometimes to launch non-supervised translations, literal translations of acts from the European acquis that become our legal code, which in translation means nothing to anyone who has translated or who reads. It's actually talking about the willingness that formally we fit in nicely in that scooter. But how will it be in practice? There's time, we'll see. Probably not. That approach of course doesn't lead, it doesn't lead to anything. We must avoid a situation that could happen to us to apply to our legislation a large part of the European acquis, and then in practice we cannot implement any of it. Some countries have found themselves in that position, and today they are full members of the European Union but on some kind of trial work. No one actually believes that what they wrote in their regulations really works and they don't do it. And that's why they're being held in that kind of membership where they're being closely watched, are they actually ready to carry out all that they promised? So the most important thing is to bring in these standards, to pass legal regulations, but then to implement them in practice. When it comes to implementing regulations that Europe does not dictate to us, which are automatically ours and which have nothing to do with the European acquis, when it comes to implementing them in practice, it is always in this Parliament that the discussion is going on: "Yeah, we have passed a beautiful regulation, but here, here, here, here and here." This can happen to us on a domestic basis. It can happen to us with what doesn't interest anyone, nobody abroad. That shouldn't be happening to us here. It just doesn't make sense. Let's not kid ourselves, every step of this House and government and government ministries and government offices and almost every civil servant is closely monitored and analysed. And it's all written somewhere. If we're cheating, we're cheating on ourselves. I was recently visiting the European Parliament and they asked me questions sometimes that I had no idea they were even thinking about. And they're thinking. They're thinking about little things we don't talk about here. So no, let's not even try to write a regulation, bring it in quick and without the intention to carry it out. All in all, the Croatian People's Party Club will support this plan, the plan should be made. Of course, with the government's promise that the plan as it is now proposed for 2007 and this year later will be carried out in a significantly higher percentage than it was in previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83901	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83902	Your Honor, Mr. President. I am correcting the inaccuracy of my colleagues Vuljanic, who called Croatia's disagreements with Italy and Slovenia a folklore conflict. So disagreements, difficult words fell both from one side and from the other between President Mesic and President of Italy. You have a statement from the European Commission. You have a case that Slovenia and Italy have forbidden us to declare an economic belt and it is a folklore for you. I'm also asking the minister to keep her in the loop. It's a pretty serious situation, not a folklore. If politics is your folklore, then this certainly isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83903	For PGS, SBH, MDS, respected representative Nikola Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83904	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Madam Minister and Associates. Let me say something on behalf of the regional parliamentary parties of the PGS, the IMF and the SBH. It is clear that, as parties that have been absolutely in the Eurooptimists group since the beginning, and those who strongly support this significant national interest of entering the European Union, that we are clearly in favour of this plan, and that is not disputed either, because we simply think that this national interest when the future of the Republic of Croatia has no alternatives. We also support this change in the term of joining accession and we are convinced that there will be no reason either in May or June when the programme is corrected because we hold that it is very important that this alliance for Europe which, if not on other topics, at least when it comes to Europe exists and works to maintain itself and to achieve even shorter and faster entry into the European Union, regardless of the big and difficult words that it may be sometimes and harmful. We, Madam Minister, are happy to determine according to one of your opening sentences when you said that the accession process is making excellent progress. You are the most competent to say it, and we are pleased to accept that assessment of yours, and we think that this process is going well. However, of course, like all others, we would also say something in terms of the content of this process from a specific angle of view of very regional parties. We have recently been as small parties that have been participating in this House trying to deal with and we have been dealing with some issues beyond the regional character of our parties. During the autumn and this winter, we have been working on analysis and activities to create conditions for us to enter the European Union with the best possible position of Croatian shipbuilding. We have recently dealt with activities that were in the form of interpretation, but in fact it was important that we wanted to open up to this Parliament the problem of the functioning of the textile and shoe industry, that is, the position of 40 thousand workers and so probably the family, and probably more that is still in this textile industry and the footwear industry in Croatia. All that we have encouraged these months will, of course, be the subject of special and individual conversations when these groups are discussed. We, looking at what is happening in a number of countries that have entered the Union in the last or last entry or cycle of enlargement, hold that it is possible to see that countries have entered the Union in different ways. So, given the separation of these two things, it's one thing to negotiate a whole series of things, and the other is what our colleague Vuljanic just said, creating a legal framework, harmonising our legislation with the European acquis. We think it is absolutely uncontestable that we must also move at a faster pace with as little non-execution of our own commitments to bring our legislation into line. And we really think that this number of 148 planned laws and 86 harmonised is not a good enough number and that this government and this Parliament should work more intensively on it. However, when it comes to negotiating certain national interests related to their economy. We would like to make it quite clear, without the use of hard words, using one metaphor, maybe even make a joke, can enter the Union, can enter and crawl, and can enter and walk. We would advocate that by negotiating economic national interests, we enter the Union as upright as possible. In fact, there are certain things we're thinking about here. If in 5 European countries where shipbuilding exists, where there is national shipbuilding, it is possible for the Member States of the Union to invest in the development of their shipyards, in fact, that shipyards subsidize, then we think that we must stand firm in those positions to simply at percentage level, in financial amounts, if this is allowed by Malta, Italy or Poland to do so in the negotiations, we must also provide for us. It's also a question when we were talking about textiles and the shoe industry. Some European countries have rehabilitated state interventions by their textile and shoe industry, today Croatia would be set up in a way that we as a state cannot. So we think that in this part we really need to see absolutely whether these are for such narrow areas teams that will negotiate on behalf of Croatia objectively from experts whose political criteria were not important, but where it was important that we have the best people from the profession and people who know European practice in these dams to try to negotiate in this way and to ensure the most favourable conditions. Because when something is negotiated when you enter the Union, it's gonna be hard to change. It is certain that this topic can also be talked about agriculture, that it can also be talked about the incentives in agriculture which, under the circumstances with which we enter the Union, it will be a framework that is also quite clear that it will be very, very difficult to change. We therefore believe that this part, indeed, should be discussed seriously on this content of significant negotiating areas. As for the concrete plan, I would like to ask the government representatives one question by comparing the plan with the previous one. And I'd like to ask you to answer that. Okay, we really had a situation this year where we can't boast, 59 planned, 24 accomplished. You know better than anyone in the government why that is. But I'm particularly interested in one thing, which is, we're in the 2006 plan that we also supported, under point 44. Regional Development Act. For 2006, we had him, for 2007, he's not even in this plan. I don't know what happened or where the law went or where the need went to pass the Regional Development Act. There's one more thing I'd like to add to that. Here I have one indication of a group of municipalities according to the Ministry of the Sea and how it all goes together, tourism and I don't know what not, on what topic, on the proposal for a regional development strategy. It's a topic that the ministry passed, it's a topic that was on the page, it's a topic where units of local and others were asked to be shown. This is, say, an indication of the Municipality of Gorski Kotar on the subject. The regional development strategy, after that, is gone and we don't know anything about it, as I say we really don't, does this mean that the government now thinks that we don't need the Regional Development Act and that we don't need to pass it under the European laws package. Of course, we as regional parties think that we need it, that it is likely that in what kind of law we should be, we should differ in attitudes, but we think that the topic of regional development, the regional development strategy with the adoption of the Regional Development Act, must be opened in 2007 for the reason that we think that this is an important part of what we must do on our way to Europe. I would also like to remind you that you know this better than I do in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, I think regional development agencies, which we have done so far in creating a framework for regional development agencies. These are regional development agencies, which according to the European model must take over some of the powers of the Ministry of Economy in terms of creating development and economy at regional level, we are not talking about it. This is an important part of the euro accession and accession process of Croatia, and for this reason we want to, by supporting this plan, of course, absolutely and without any dilemma, to point out that it seems to us that some of the things for which there seems to be no willingness to analyse them, there is no willingness to propose anything and to open and debate at national level and then also in Parliament, remain on the side, and we think that we will be late in the finalisation of this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83905	Thank you. HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83906	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I do not think there is a particular need to point out that the Croatian-Social Liberal Party in its political action has always, never had any skepticism, the need for Croatia to become a full member of the European Union as soon as possible and that it is precisely our guarantee that the processes of democratisation, liberalisation, modernisation, Europeanisation will then be further guaranteed and that there is no alternative in such processes. That is why we believe that this practice of announcing the harmonisation of legislation with the European Union for the current year is a positive step by the executive authority and, as such, we welcome it. It is always good to know the framework and the quarterly dynamics of adopting new regulations, then it is easier to prepare that we can really talk about it here in a metric and responsible manner. It also opens up the possibility of making a broader consultation with experts, because it is really very difficult to do that, those times when indeed a representative could be, that is, acting on the principle of the man of the implementation of Leonard de Vinci communicative. Today in the world that is... It's very difficult to be universal, and rightly so, because of our dignity and the work that we're doing, it's very important that we really know, we know the dynamics of passing certain legal proposals into this procedure. [[You don't understand.]] That is why I may say something different from my colleagues who have in some way shown a rebalancing between what has been planned and what has been achieved and what has actually been realized in this Parliament. Something that bothers us at the club, which is actually this practice of persistent and almost mass regulation by emergency procedure. We don't really think that every time it's a speed it's always a virtue. And what I think, I think, in fact, despite this current situation of relations with Italy and Slovenia and these problems that arise, I still think that we are now going through a stable transition period. However, Croatia has indeed shown in many ways that in this transition every time we have reacted responsibly and the transfer of power was made without any problems on January 3rd. The electoral procedures, however, run with almost minor remarks, are in some ways citizens, citizens and politics have shown a high degree of maturity and many of the things that happen in some other countries Croatia has successfully prevailed. That is why I do not think that, in the end, the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of our Parliament, which says the law, can only be passed by an urgent procedure when the interests of the defence and other particularly justified state reasons are required, that is to say, to prevent and eliminate major disturbances in the economy. I think, however, that kind of situation, I say, the defence interests, some justified state reasons, the economic disturbances aren't really so common that it would really be necessary for a large number of laws to be passed by emergency procedure. But then it appears usually as an important reason for harmonising for an emergency procedure, according to the EU regulations. The Rules of Procedure of the European Union shall, by an urgent procedure, be adopted by laws which comply with the regulations of the European Union if requested by the Proposer and the Proposer, as a general rule, so requests. But I'm not sure that's actually a good way to go. Because someone's here, I mean colleague Ivanis and colleague Vuljanić said the same thing, so we don't just pass those laws so that we can coordinate something, that we have something and that we say there is something now, but above all we should be interested in implementing these laws, exactly how they operate in practice. And precisely because of this, we have decided to reform and I almost think that there is a political consensus in Parliament of all relevant political parties, that then really if this reform path is no alternative then it seems to me that some times it is even more important to be somewhat slower, something more thorough, because that way we are actually defending the identity of the Parliament, but also us as parliamentary representatives who we are really left to talk about many times, to improvise and actually to laws that we must not have enough time to analyse as a policy but not as a profession. And then what's happening right now? To occur very often, it is the need that we really need to re-access certain supplements and changes in the month, two or three. And it really creates a bad picture and creates this very sense of uncertainty, the uncertainty that I think can be overcome, that we can just overcome it by avoiding an emergency procedure and that indeed even its alignment with the European Union regulations is not really required by any urgent procedure, but rather by just one reverse practice that we are really slowly but certainly determining our national interests. Exactly what every time you talk to representatives from the European Union, then they tell you that in the negotiation process, you are truly open to all possibilities. You can freely defend your interests, you can freely show certain specificities and precisely some of the reasons why certain things are to you as a country that must become a member of the European Union are unacceptable to you. But what causes Europeans to have a certain kind of discomfort is that when we accept something, we sign and then we question it afterwards. It's actually showing one particular indifference or in some way we're actually not taking advantage of all the opportunities that the negotiation process really provides you. It is not and is not the most common or actually the rarest thing to have and take or leave. So rare or almost no one behaves. And in the end we have some experience I don't know, Poland or some other countries that have just been able to defend their strategic interests and show why applying certain I don't know, European standards in a way in some other countries would actually fail. I think that's what we have, and that's exactly how we're going to do it, and that's exactly what that communication strategy is all about, that you can actually educate and prepare citizens that it can't be everything, that it's not just honey and milk, but that right, that why does something have to be accepted? Or why, then, will something later prove to be in practice that it will produce positive results? That is why I say, I think that this speed, that there is no point in bringing the regulations quickly, in an emergency procedure, because a month, two days longer, a regular procedure will not in any way lead to any way, in your opinion, any disturbance in the economy, will not endanger national security, will not endanger any other state interests and will not block negotiations with the European Union. I say, if we make a lot of rules in a hurry then that's exactly what happens to us that after a few months we have to correct the mistakes of those regulations and then it really creates this and legal uncertainty because it's very difficult to get along with experts. Then let's try to imagine an ordinary citizen in that sea of regulations. And I always know about the lack of knowledge of the law to anyone who doesn't have an abstinence, unamnesty, pardon. It should be made clear that we have a huge job ahead of us, but a job that needs to be done with quality. We at the club think that the Parliament can hold a longer session, that, but I am saying that we do not have any reason to see any reason to apply the ordinary procedure of passing the law in two readings, at the end of the track is exactly certain European Union rules which also foresee that each time with a relatively short text a certain and several sublegal acts that will really enable here a quality implementation of those laws that we bring here. I say, an emergency procedure is only a way, it would be good if this House were actually reduced to one bearable measure. What, when we got this work plan, then here's to say, at the club... We're not going to repeat what some other colleagues said, let's just say we're very surprised there's no concession law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The existing concession law if we're not mistaken was passed in late '92. A year, and it went into effect in early '93. A year. It is a very short law, it contains only 10 articles, and of course only a complex concession problem can be mentioned in these 10 articles. As a result, any activity involving concessions has practically been defined by a very special law, so now we have some 30 separate and content and form of diverse concession regimes. In all this, I can't cope again with experts and none of us would be the judge of the Administrative Court when he comes to disputes concerning concession decisions where almost every category of concession has its own law and procedure. The new concession law has been going on for years, and I'd say we'd be glad he got into this plan for 2007. The problem of concessions is complex, but this area regulates very extensive euro directives, I say, but I think we'll have to do it eventually, and let's just say it's also one of those legal issues that we're about to meet with. We repeat, this is the plan we should get every year and that's what I'm saying is good and it's commendable. But what we insist on, the Parliament must function in accordance with not only the form but also the meaning of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. So, we repeat the less urgent procedures, the more I say that we cannot and cannot give up, they have no alternative and only the reform path and the adoption of the law in this Parliament, not because we coordinate them because of the European Union, but rather because of ourselves, will enable Croatia as we wish, which is modern, civil, European, democratic, liberal, where we are truly all of these... and before we take over, or before the transition, a transition where we will make it through successfully. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HSLS Club will give a positive opinion on this proposal for a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83907	Thank you very much. In 10 and 45, it was time to report for 10 minutes of discussion. For the club IDS, respected representatives Damir Cain and Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83908	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Well, it turns out that by the elections, we'll be adopting as many as 55 European laws by 2007. How and how successful we have been so far about this second time. That's what my predecessors were talking about, mostly Mr. Mimica. However, about the speed, size, quality of these legal texts, etc., I will not talk about and whether it is always possible to implement them in our lives. But the cartoon today in Mr. Srecko Puntaric's "Evening List" is really great and perhaps the best painting of this moment. Now we have Felix on one side. We're on one of the great winds it says. Of all the Euro-Atlantic phenomena we know about, we're only affected by the Atlantic cyclone. And that's really how it is. I am pleased to be honest with you that we are adopting this package of environmental laws that are listed here, to guarantee maximum protection of the air environment. But we are also working in parallel with this on the re industrialisation of Croatia because this import-export ratio plus 500 thousand fewer jobs today than in the 1990s, twice as many pensioners today as in '90, 38 billion dollars of foreign debt or 30 billion euros if someone prefers it. Citizens within the banking system, within the country owe these institutions 100 billion kuna. We have 300,000 unemployed and all this says that Croatia may not be able to escape the Argentine lesson itself. We'll sober up, we'll be late. I repeat, I am 100% for the most ecological standards especially for this ratification of the Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change under point 33 of this proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line and I would even ask here if they follow their Istrians in New York that they too take up their government in Washington to ratify that convention. If they're watching this, clearly, they'll understand why I'm saying it. But we should all agree that the best social policy is a full-time policy. But so I don't speak in riddles right now, I'm going to mention some other laws under, say, point 10. This is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension, Pension Insurance and Pensions Act on the basis of individual capitalised savings. That law should be passed in the first quarter of this year. Under point 2, this is the second quarter, the Act on the acquisition of stock companies. Then, under point 46, it was in the third quarter, it's out there somewhere I don't know when, after the summer break, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children. Under point 50. Criminal Procedure Act, General Administrative Procedure Act, 54. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code and so on and so forth. Especially interesting law, at least in my court, is this under regular number 10, which should come before us in the first quarter, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Companies Act and the payment of pensions on the basis of individual capitalised savings. I would like to say here among these laws in some way the need to bring together old and new pensioners because it certainly cannot be a European standard for one who retired in 2007 or retired in 2000 to have, say, two times less pensions than the one who retired, say, before 1999. In fact, that difference is not twice as clear, but I'll just say that the number of new pensioners is constantly increasing. In 2004, there were 280 thousand. 2006. 352 grand. The number of old ones is falling clearly. And the amount of pensions is lagging behind. In 2004, the new pensioners were 430 kuna behind. 2005. 495 kuna. 2006. 531 kuna. I speak clearly for those who retired with a full-time 40-year job for men and so on, and for women. We see that this detail, let's say, does not worry the European Union. And it is not fair as it is simply not fair and such a resolutional state of Brussels to the side of Napolitan regarding that of his dictatorship about the bloodthirsty of Slavena, regardless of what President Mesic was too sharp, but he was not exclusively like Napolitano. I would now answer to some here who used to talk about it as a follow-up? The policy of the good neighborhood... co-existence not to protect those who destroy partisan monuments because NOB integrated Istria into the National Corps of the Croatian-Slovenian People. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But also to admit the truth that is painful for both. But it's ours. And when they burned Brgudac and Crassus and Lipa and Shajina and Kresini, but also when, for example, Pula in 1947, 32,000 people left 28 thousand. But both are anti-fascists. No post-Communists as Matvejevic writes in the New List today and let them start talking again. Why do I mention these very retirement insurance companies? But before I say full-time 40 years, men have a pension in Croatia 62.37% of average salary. And as it is now in the European Union, which for example conditions us first in NATO, only then in the EU. In the European Union, the average salary pension seems to be like this. In Germany 63%. All 0.63% more than Croatia. It is likely that 63% can live decently compared to these 1500 kunas in Croatia. Austria has 80%. Sweden 71% pension, average salary for those who went full-time. Belgium 67, Denmark 71, Italy 89, the Netherlands 92, Slovenia 82%, Hungary 102, Luxembourg 98, Finland 73. I am deliberately saying this because the European Union is looking for everything but not measures for a better standard for Croatian citizens. No matter how much I believe that the European Union carries a better standard in itself, but also the obligation of much greater work and a ruthless game where the clear work of goods is, and what those who have started to do as most of us in socialism find it difficult to accept. It won't be easy with Europe either, but before we do, we have to solve these problems that I mentioned about this one social status. It's interesting this law on child support that would come in the third quarter. I hope that extra will be bigger, not smaller. I don't know why 101 times should change the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure is something else, and it's time for at least detention to be limited. They cut those deadlines, and I guess that's the price of a criminal procedure. Everything else is acceptable but, for example, did we not pass a series of laws six months ago, for example, the Food Act and so on? Finally, there are some legal decisions of the Republic of Croatia which, for example, treat this matter as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act. The problem is, it doesn't apply to us. The electronic media law or what do I know? The Veterinary Act. Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register and so on. The law under point 8. The law on the gas market, MGRIP, as the abbreviations say. What gentlemen are doing, I'm deliberately saying that some companies that work around the world on the Croatian market are being discriminated against, that they can't break through, for example, with their tanks and so on, it's a shame. And knowing the people I grew up with and working with in these companies, I trust them to think they're being wrong. There are other institutions that put pressure on, indirectly on that privatisation. Like the World Bank. I wasn't here at 7:30 yesterday night. I've been going somewhere around 6 and a half years, where among other things I'm looking for the privatisation of the Port of Ploče if you want 58 million euros or I don't know the dollar. But in order not to give an opinion on every point now, it is clear that this proposal should be accepted, but you should know that Europe is more concerned, that the game of the market is unfavourable, that protection is there I would dare say clearly something more weak than perhaps here today but certainly lives better. Is that all fair about it to someone else, another occasion? When I want to say to the European Union that in 2000 there could be some electoral points in the European Union's passwords. In 2007, he won't. That's good, and that's why we need to be as real and objective as possible. We don't need to be euphoric, we clearly don't need to be Eurosceptic, we don't need to get carried away with the illusions that they won't have to work or that we're going to have the same income as in Luxemburg or, say, one Germany. It won't be like that, at least not overnight. But Croatia will have incomparably more opportunities and opportunities than today. If we use them all, it'll be better. If we don't, we'll be as good as we've been. But I am against economic blackmail.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83909	Thank you. For a moment, stop time to correct incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83910	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's certainly the incorrect assumption that Croatia will experience Argentina's fate. Namely, the crown proof of fellow Cain is the duty of citizens. And by manipulating it, he forgets to say that saving citizens is just as much. The economic situation is much better than Mr. Caine says, which is evident because the profit grew almost 30% annually. But what's interesting is all that. In every presentation of colleagues the same text every day, regardless of the law, so we certainly titled him on duty as a catastrophic, I think unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83911	And respected representative Marin Jurjevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83912	counterpart Cain said that Croatian President Mesic and Italian President Georgio Napolitano are both anti-fascists. Since Georgio Napolitano said that fujbas are the result of bloodthirsty Slavic hatred and Slavic anexian aspirations. And since Italy President Georgio Napolitano decorated the last fascist, it means Mussolini's chief of police in Zadar doesn't matter to me at all how he personally declared himself, which he was, what he was doing. It's incompatible to me with an anti-fascist and anti-racist position. So, Georgio Napolitano, after moves like this, puts deep doubt on his anti-fascist position, and for me, he denies it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83913	We're going to an individual debate. The Honorable Vice President of the House, I'm sorry. The second part of the IDS Club's presentation, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83914	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished minister, gentlemen of the government. Croatia has been a member of the European Union since 2001. I want to believe that we still have the chance and time to become a full member in 2009. However, the reform process, in the opinion of us at the IDS club, is going relatively threefold and is experiencing a slowdown in the field of harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal virtue of the European Union. Someone will say it's more important to pass a smaller number of laws whether better quality than a larger number of laws and then go back with changes and additions to them, which, of course, deprives our time. In the IDS, we believe that in the field of legislation, we need to go with more elans and strengths and thus speed up the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union, but also with the adoption of quality laws. Yeah, passing these laws costs money. It costs, but that is why it is important for them to be quality and to be useful and enforceable in practice. So the cost will be worth it. Therefore, planning to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal gains of the European Union must be better, and dynamics must be realistically faster with better quality laws. The IDS Club will support this proposal for a harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union for 2007, Appendix A to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession of the European Union 2007. Because with the realisation of the adoption of harmonisation of legislation, we will be closer to the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia, which we IDS are fully committed to. And I believe that this plan has this weight and this dynamic with which, of course, we have the possibility of achieving 2009 as full members of the European Union, with a stronger and faster adoption of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83915	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83916	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that we were actually put into a situation that we should still say a few important things to know what we're discussing. First of all, you should say what a legal gain is. I get the feeling that when people discuss all of this at all, they don't talk about it at all, or otherwise, they mean content. And this is about a set of rights and obligations that all Member States commit and connect within the European Union. It shall include the content of the principles and political objectives of the founding contracts, the legislation shall be directed towards the application of the founding contract and the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Community, the declaration, the resolutions adopted by the Union, the measures relating to the common foreign policy in security policy, the measures relating to justice and home affairs, and the international agreements concluded by the Community, as well as contracts between Member States in the field of Union action. That's the first one. Secondly, we have determined that we will bring our legislation into line with these gains in order to actually create a constitutional and legislative framework for the achievement of social, social, economic and social relations in our society regardless of whether or not we will enter the European Union. And thirdly, in the negotiations and talks on as a candidate for accession to the European Union, harmonising with this acquis is actually an assumption that we can only open up certain areas related to the negotiations through which we could enter into this respect because we do not dispute on legal issues. And in this respect, it's very important to point out this question in order to actually understand what's going on. And why is that? Because something happened that shouldn't be anymore and should never happen again. First, we have received a proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with a acquis that has no reason. This is inadmissible, it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of Articles 177 and 152. The Rules of Procedure, and there exactly what the reasoning of the final proposal of the act, and this is the second act, or other acts adopted under the procedure and in the way in which the final proposal of the act is adopted, and there it writes what the final proposal must contain. If necessary, I can make a very nice point and read it to you. It reads in Article 152: "The final bill is submitted in the form in which the law is passed. The discussion of the final bill covers the reasons why the law is being passed, the issues it addresses, the explanation of the provisions of the proposed law" etc. Not to quote everything. And Article 177 states that other acts are adopted in accordance with the procedure and in the manner in which the final draft of the law is adopted. Why is this important? Because we should address several controversial problems that are actually emerging and even in our current debate, and one of them is a question of understanding or misunderstanding why some acts and laws that need to be brought into line with the acquis are proposed again in the plan, while at the same time there are laws that are already in line in 2003 or 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007. There are several such acts of these 59 that are repeated. Then the question arises whether it is credible to say so, whether it is the position of the competent, resolute ministry expressed in a statement on the compliance of certain regulations with the acquis or not. Because here is also the proposal for acts to be harmonised with the acquis of the European Union without amending legal regulations in the European Union in the meantime. I warn and ask whether, among other things, a debate is being opened about changing some of the rules because of our internal interests and relations, and not because of the harmonisation with the acquis, and the acquis serves us in order to actually simplify and speed up the procedure for this harmonisation. That's the first problem you'd like to highlight. Another problem, for example, you have the Public Procurement Act, should be harmonised even though it was passed in 2003, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media in 2003 was passed, then the Food Act adopted in 2003, then on Veterinary Law, and then on amendments to the Law on the Control of the State Border, and then you have, for example, the Law on Medical Products, the Law on Medicinal Products, now we turn one law into two etc. etc. The question arises as to what has happened on the acquis in the European Union that these laws are being amended. Some of them, some of them aren't. So the question arises, in fact, what is behind it. Fourthly, it is unacceptable for the legislator and the legislative authority to be given material to be introduced. Mrs. Parliament is the holder of the legislative policy and the executive power has the right to propose frameworks for the implementation of legislative policy, but this is not for the purpose of getting to know each other. I guess we'll bring this plan or not, if we bring this plan, then the government has to act on it, prepare and deliver to the Parliament, and not like last time, so we don't invent any kind of structure that we'll be able to get close to the European Union too fast if we get along with the gains. We will not get anywhere near the gains, with the gain we will only create legal frameworks to have relations as is the case in the countries of the European Union. And that's something that, in the extreme line, a little bit if I may say so and show or not knowing the relationship between the executive and the legislative authority or underestimating Parliament itself. I don't think it's right. It's not right, and I'm not saying that from the point of view, I'm talking about a memo signed by the prime minister. It writes nicely in paragraph 2: The Government of the Republic of Croatia also delivers the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union, etc. etc. as well as here in this plan. Therefore, the question arises whether, as with the plan, the supplement (a) is the National Programme, you know. So the plan should be an integral part of the National Programme that is not attached here. And now we are coming back to the question of what is actually being asked in the ministry, or in the government, about the completion of acts that would have to be sent to the Parliament in accordance with the parliamentary procedure. You know that if it were the opposition's proposal, it would certainly be the act, not included in the agenda for a simple reason, the call to the Rules of Procedure was not drawn up or delivered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. After all, we had such a case in connection with the launch of an interpretation which was rejected because it did not formally comply with the Rules of Procedure. Now, listen, it happens to an opposition agent or any representative because he doesn't have a professional apparatus, but to a government that has a professional apparatus shouldn't happen. One more thing. It is very interesting that there is also a situation here where it is proposed, as has already been done last year, by, say, amending the Law of the Sea, that it is actually in line with contracts and which are not acts or are not an integral part of the legal property of the European Union. I'll be free to remind you. Yesterday we received a proposal for a bill confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a project of integration, trade and transport, with the Final Proposal. Among other things, in the guarantee agreement, the agreement between the state and the bank says again: "Section 204, no later than 23 January 2007, the guarantee will be submitted to the Croatian Assembly to amend and supplement the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports of 25 September 2003, which will amend the definition of port upgrade in order to exclude cranes and other equipment for burden manipulation." Dear fellow Members and colleagues, dear gentlemen, we have made this agreement a commitment to modifying the acquis on the one hand, and at the same time last year we passed that law on amendments and additions as if it were a harmonisation with the acquis, and this is not the case, this is not a legal gain. The guarantee agreement between us and the International Bank is not, of course, the problem is in something else, which needs to change the law that the one that is far more important, and that is mentioned by fellow Cain, and it is contained in 203 points (a) which reads, quote: "Jamac will take the necessary measures to reduce state property in Luci Ploče, not in the port administration of Ploče," says the port administration here, but in Luci Ploče, I continue to quote: "no more than 20% in accordance with existing laws and provisions in agreement with the bank". So we'll privatize the port of Ploche. I say again, not the port administration, but the port of Ploče in agreement with the bank, not in agreement between the government, the parliament, the interest of the Croatian people and Croatian citizens. That's why we're asking a serious question. Should we get along with this plan, the draft plan, what the Rules of Procedure requires and asks, an explanation that we actually understand why this bill should be harmonised and the other one should not? Because there are many more laws that need to be brought into line with the acquis, because the acquis makes up a few dozen, thousands of acts that need to be harmonised by Croatia and the legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83917	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83918	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the proposal for a plan to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2007 should be seen in the context of the overall events, in a context a little broader than this proposal would be sufficient for a serious debate which must, of course, be imposed on which parliamentary body, Parliament should give its assessment as a representative body of the people. I think that we have made a mistake so far that we are simply not in Parliament a stronger, clearer and more concrete position when it comes to the negotiations on legislative solutions, or the harmonisation of those solutions that we have in relation to those legal solutions that exist in the European Union. Of course, from the very beginning, we have started with the right and the exact information in terms of informing our citizens, I believe that at that time, that we would not be in a position today to be able to hold an important referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union, unfortunately, according to all relevant research, we must be patient. Namely, let's get inside as soon as possible, if she had a wing, let's get in as best and better prepared as possible, of course, that our sub-ordination with the citizens would be better then. Therefore, there is absolutely no choice in what level of government should have with citizens the most open contact and the most direct communication. Absolutely, always choice falls on Parliament. It is Parliament that should contact citizens most directly and whose messages are practically only transmitted through Parliament and which contain the majority will of our citizens. And just if this were to measure the achievements so far achieved by the Republic of Croatia in terms of legislative approximation, then it can be called satisfactory, when it comes to the legal view of the matter. However, if we look at it in the context of how citizens experience it or how it grows to improve their positive view of accession, then, of course, the situation is not. Of course, on the condition that Croatia passes the entire accession path, that Croatia adopts those economic and social norms that apply in the European Union and that it is indeed the capital that will be given to citizens because it will ultimately mean a better quality of life, a easier job, better employment, on a macroeconomic plan to reduce external debt exposure or improve balance of payments. If it were a success, and if we didn't even enter the European Union in time and the way we all imagine it together today, that doesn't even happen, then it's a big capital. Of course, this would be a relative defeat for a political elite who has actually set its goal if perhaps she hadn’t asked her citizens at the outset about this goal. Therefore, this relative failure and would not be a failure when it comes to our citizens if they felt on their own skin, on their own wallet that what was happening in the process was useful for them. And I think that one of those logics that we all kind of accept and, of course, the minister has repeatedly said that speed is not important but quality. So, one such acceptance of the actual state of affairs will probably bring us tomorrow all the cooled heads in one other environment to the fact that it's really important to do quality work in our house. Because when Europe is through standards, living conditions in Croatia under quotes, then of course we have met our goal. Therefore, it remains only that technical question in which and when we will create constitutional legal links with the European Union and with the Member States of the European Union. I would also, of course, say that the euro of skepticism that exists in Croatia and which is legitimate actually has a source in these vague and insufficiently explained things and which is the result of either guilty or insufficient communication with our citizens. Therefore, I, too, have always advocated that this Parliament must be more strongly represented when it comes to the continuation of legislative harmonisation but also when it comes to negotiations, screening and all that makes up a single total package of these relations with the European Union. Parliament simply has to go behind the curtain. It is still located today as an island when it comes to the seriousness of negotiations with the European Union. He is at one declarative level always very much represented but in the real sense of that representation I say when it comes to Croatian citizens, then you can see how many are and how many are the shortcomings. It would return a little to one chapter within the framework of this plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, which is specifically touched by one topic which is in some way my priority in terms of tertiary activities, services and what in our gross social product there is, almost 20%. So it's not negligible. I think that the European Parliament has also, in favour of these territorial activities of tourism as a global framework, directed a whole series of its activities and a whole series of its legislative measures and made huge steps towards developing certain types of tourism that have proved to be pronounced in recent years and have completed the traditional framework of tourism viewing. First of all, I thought of cultural tourism, the exchange of youth in Europe and the creation of conditions for the development of youth tourism, social tourism as a new category that we of course do not yet have in our economy. The rural tourism that should be particularly tangible when it comes to the system of encouraging, encouraging and creating conditions for the development of this rural tourism that is so much, so much talk, and unfortunately individuals who are dealing with it or will deal with it are quite alone in this attempt to fight for their place on the market. Further promotion of tourism in the field of education today in the European Union is considered one of the most important topics that should simply be served in this form of understanding for citizens and the public, what is it that can be achieved within the European Union and benefit from what? Of course, the sustainable development of Croatia needs to be kept in mind in particular. A country that has such spaces that are simply irreparable, irreplaceable but unfortunately expendable because sustainable development can be spent should be treated as something that it really cares about. Of course, the Member States of the European Union have also given particular attention to the protection of consumers, tourists of all those moving. For information and training, representation and consultation, protection of health and safety and of course damages. All this may seem irrelevant in this form before the difficult or large words, but this is the life that depends on how our tourism as one branch that can be very important in the development of the entire Croatian economy will look tomorrow. Without such approaches, we will certainly not achieve the results we wanted to achieve that segment of the market. Today, we are saddened that only recently, unfortunately, those laws on hospitality and tourism that we have applied for many years since the former Yugoslavia have only now transformed somewhat. Still this fullness of procedures in the legislative form, not that we haven't met, but we haven't come to solve these burning open problems, and then you get the impression that when you look at the accession plan or the legislative alignment that you find very rarely these very tertiary activities, this tourism. On the other hand, it makes up 20% of the social gross product. In the development strategy, we find it very difficult to find that way to make sure that we really do. We also live in a tourist country [[- Okay, okay.]] It's over, isn't it? [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83919	Done. Replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83920	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Markov, and I agree with you in most of the cases you said, but this when you said it was more important to accept better quality and better laws and better prepare yourself in Croatia for European standards, so the entry into the European Union is just technical to say so, I agree with you, but I believe that you thought that the date was 2009 at the end of 2009. Croatia has the opportunity to prepare with quality and good laws and create standards to join the European Union in 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83921	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83922	Well, I am absolutely not entering your right to think that Croatia may enter the European Union in 2009. I'm not sure that the citizens of this country in the sense I was talking about will be ready for us all to have the same conditions, the same criteria, and that the same rules apply to us. Even today, we see that these rules are not the same when it comes to the international perception of historical events. When it comes to the Italian president's relationship with the Croatian president. So I'm afraid that even on this second clue about the area, this equality is not going to be very well expressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83923	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83924	Your Honor, the Honorable Secretary of State. We have a key problem here for me. We know where we're going, we know if we'd like to come to that goal, but we don't know at this point how long that trip will be? How much on that road do we have a bandage, an obstacle? How many steps on that road do we have to take? If we don't know that then of course we have another big problem and that's the question of dynamics. At this point, we don't know whether we have to run on that path or we can simply disembark in Europe because we have a little obstacle, a short journey, and we're going to get over it very easily. Or we have a very many obstacles, a very long way, a very long way to work, so it's time for us not to think about it and talk about it but just to start running fast to get to those set goals that we have. So our problem is that we can't, of course we will support any plan of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, but we have a problem because we don't know at this point whether it is enough? Are there really certain real priorities? Could there be other priorities? Is he too far-reaching or perhaps under-reaching? Is the term defined as it should be to really achieve that goal that we all want, which is that in 2009, we are ready to enter the European Union, which means that not only do we complete the negotiations but we have harmonised the acquis and so on. But it should be remembered here how much I remember when Mr Barroso was in this assembly he said that there will not be enough for Croatia just to comply with the acquis, but Croatia will be expected to expect that what it has coordinated and implemented in society and not only implements but also to implement reforms on that path. So it really is all in Croatian society and it is coming to life. I'm afraid that since we don't know how much longer we have to do that goal, we haven't set ourselves ambitious enough in a way that in this first time, in 2007 and 2008, we do as much as possible to ultimately leave just some things behind, some things to iron. Furthermore, we are also lacking in this plan the reasons why we did not meet last year's plan of coordination on the one hand. And on the other hand, what I think is crucial, we have no criteria for the effect of implementing these laws. We have here in Appendix A, which we have come to know truly very substancefully all that is done and not only on the plan of harmonising with the European Union, because here we have practically one, in Appendix A, we have a thorough description of what the Government and Parliament were doing last year to prepare the law, and the Parliament to adopt the law. We've even written what's prepared, and it hasn't been sent to the Parliament yet. But we here from Appendix A, we don't see what the effect of that is. We should, as parliamentary representatives, and I also think as the Croatian public, take this plan of coordination as a moment to consider it as some kind of reporting on the state of the nation on that path of reform and joining the European Union. So we should have a report on what we've done in the past, which are our traps and our shortcomings, and what we should do in these stages by 2009. And in 2009, it's not that far away, so we only have two and a half or three years left of which this first one is practically only in half, because the second half of the year will definitely be very electoral and it will be very difficult to pass some laws, especially laws that are expected to implement reforms in society. Unfortunately, instead, we only have one technical report that seemed to exist. And we have a document that says what is planned to be done this year, and we don't even have what would be good if this table were filled, so we know when a law will be sent to the government, when it will be passed to the Government, when it will be sent to the Parliament, when it is planned, for example, in the Assembly, it's a little difficult for us in Parliament because we don't know what we're going to do in the afternoon, let alone when we're going to pass some law, and finally what the status of that is. But, you know, in the European Union, Parliament also works a little more in the longer term, so it's about a few months in advance when some point will be so that both the representatives and the professional public and the political public can prepare something and discuss it. Here we are preparing ourselves, for the entire year to discuss, for example, the Law on Middle Education, because the minister announced that from next year, secondary education would be mandatory. Even more so, it is announced that it will be necessary to amend the Constitution to make it mandatory for secondary education from the next school year. Now there's a surprise, you know, in the plan of alignment with the European Union, there's no law on secondary education at all. It's only in the third quarter that we have the Professional Education Act. Which means, for example, whether it means that it will only be mandatory to have secondary education in high schools, not vocational schools. Because if only in the third quarter we will have the Law on Professional Education, then it is almost impossible that on September 1st, or September 3rd, when the new school year begins, we will have compulsory secondary education. Because those kids who are supposed to go to compulsory high school won't know what vocational schools they're going to go to, since the law still needs to be passed. If we go to compulsory secondary education, then I suppose that law should also be brought into line with the European acquis. And if we're doing such a radical reform as moving from college to compulsory secondary education, then that's the first priority. Then secondary education must be, or the Law on secondary education and the adoption of the School Standard for secondary education should be in the first quarter of this year. Or we'll say it again, okay. We're going to do that, but then we're going to bring in, I don't know, 2008, professional, 2008 general secondary education, and in 2012, maybe standards. So when you coordinate this plan and look at it with the add-on and then you see it also that, in the medium term, so here in Appendix A, it doesn't say anything about compulsory secondary education at all. Now the question is whether it is mandatory to use secondary education as a political message for domestic occasions, and that Europe has not been told anything or indeed has been fully aligned. So, I think there should be another step in that, in these goals that I've been talking about. And finally what should be the result, so there is no entry into the European Union without one, the only fact, and that is the referendum. All of this is a prerequisite. So also legal gains and ratifications and parliament decisions and government decisions. We should at the end of each report, or at the beginning of each plan, have the result of our work from last year. So we should know what the effect of the communication strategy we adopted last year is, so the second one was adopted last year and what we are going to do this year and what our goal is at the end of this year. Because all of this is completely unnecessary if, at the end of this process, the citizens of Croatia will not, more than half of them, say that we want to join the European Union. So it would certainly be necessary to supplement this document in the future with the Communication on the realisation of the communication strategy. Unfortunately, our request that this report be submitted to the Parliament is not adopted but submitted to the Government. But I think it would be correct for the Parliament to also receive a report on the impact of the communication strategy in the past period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83925	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83926	Thank you, Mr. President. Inaccurately, counterpart Mrsic claimed that in other parliaments several months the topics are also known when they will be discussed, etc. In fact, knowing the work of other parliaments in Europe and elsewhere, it is certainly incorrect. So they function in a similar way as our Parliament does. In this sense, the Croatian Parliament shall adopt a draft agenda in time. There's a way to figure out what the procedure is. So you don't have to compare us that way because it's incorrectly complete.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83927	Four replicas now we have more. First, the honourable representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83928	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister. Well, I actually answered the replica at the beginning, even though at the end of my presentation, the distinguished representative Mršić touched on exactly what I wanted to replicate. Namely, your opening observation, which you said in general, is very important. It is important that the Government, at the end of the day and all representatives of the Croatian Parliament, know clearly the path you were talking about, but above all it is important to mention whether the citizens of the Republic of Croatia know which way and at what speed we are going to join the European Union because, as you have finally mentioned, the assessment of whether we are ready and whether we want to give citizens of the Republic of Croatia the right to a referendum in the European Union. If we here in the Croatian Parliament have not fully agreed on whether dynamic times are good, whether the coordination plan that we are talking about here is good or should be different, the question is how and how will this be interpreted by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, all of this together is very much related to the effects of a communication strategy that, in my personal opinion, are not yet well valorised, in fact, not seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83929	Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83930	So I really think it's necessary at this job, let's call it a European job, to change this thesis on competition between political parties, between the government and the parliament, between Parliament and citizens, and I think we need to turn this competition thesis on partnership because this really is a job where a national and political consensus has been reached and I think we should all find our place to contribute to that on the way, right? Here I, as an opposition representative, still think that there is one small such vision from opposition MPs or from Parliament in that, and that Parliament is not used well enough by the Government to be effective enough on that path, to be quick enough, to overcome the way in the desired time and to bring together priorities to make the best of it. So here I think that we will all be winners, we will not be defeated and the winners, we will all be winners if we really achieve this goal of being fully in line in 2009, but not the Government, not the Ministry, not the Parliament, but the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with our wishes and what Europe expects of us and if the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are more than 50% interested in entering the European Union because they will believe that they will benefit more from it than they do from the shortcomings.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83931	Honorable representative of Ante Markov's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83932	Thank you very much. Coli Mršić was asked why, he was rightly asked why he was not on the list of priorities we are currently discussing, but he wondered if it was in the nature of European gain that we know and have a court of law. I just hope that's not the political gain we want to discuss politically, because I don't think that would be good, because really high school education is very important, but it requires a whole series of preconditions that have to be created to introduce such a thing. And of course all these conditions that need to be created do not live in the European Union but live here in Croatia and should be open from this House, and citizens should not be so easily given promises that can be interpreted as part of the election year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83933	Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83934	So my concern about secondary education didn't go that far towards Europe, it went more towards seeing if that goal could really be realized on September 3rd. Because if the Constitution changes and goes after it to be compulsory secondary education, we are missing between 7 and 10 thousand chairs in non-existent classrooms in the fall where those students who don't usually go to high school will have to go to first grade. So it's the first spatial prerequisite. The second prerequisite is that we first heard that there would be a mandatory secondary education and then within a few months we heard that only the first two classes would be required in that secondary education, so the question arises whether we are going to go to some radical reform of secondary education because, for example, what a high schooler will do after the second grade, which he will have a profession. What one crafter will do after the second grade when we have three-year and four-year craft education, i.e. vocational education. What's the second high school student to go to general school after second grade? So there's a whole series of questions, but then it's absurd that we have here a proposal on vocational education, and we don't have a proposal on high school education with standards. Even more so, when you look at how to meet these spatial conditions, you see that this plan is in conflict with the guidelines, that is, the Law on the implementation of the state budget, because the Law on the implementation of the state budget has said that a new Law on public-private partnership will be adopted. He also brought it in and the question is how will we regulate a public-private partnership during this year that should allow some of these classrooms to be built here. So I'm worried that September 3rd high school kids don't become an experiment again, because we don't have the right to experiment on living people.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83935	Honorable representative Valter Poropat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83936	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What Mršić said, I say that we are thinking the same thing, which means that by 2009 we should be ready to enter the European Union as regards legislation, but also the implementation of this legislation into the lives and standards of the lives of Croatian citizens. Because let's be realistic, we really have enough time, we know we're only the beginning of 2007, and by the end of 2009, we're two and a half years old, and it's more than that. So I believe that personally and in this way we must act more on the ground or contribute to achieving that goal, not just to wait for what the Government will do or for any ministry but for each of us individual representatives to act very hard and to work towards achieving this goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83937	And the esteemed representative of Antun Kapraljevic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83938	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a fellow Mršić you've noticed very well that at this point we should make no kind of inventory to see what we've implemented, what of these laws have we implemented, but also to know what else is waiting for us? But the bigger question is, what have we implemented in society? What of those suggestions we made about corruption? What did we do with agriculture, shipbuilding? And let me put it this way. Then the question and sovereignty of economic, financial, economic? How do we preserve our natural heritage? And because of all that I think we have done little or too little, Croatia has made a wonderful adjustment only in two things. First. The Prime Minister works beautifully in the halls of Brussels. And two. To Europe with my eye, here I jump.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83939	Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83940	Well, maybe there was no time, no time, no regrets, we don't even have a chance to discuss it, something that could even be said about lobbying the Republic of Croatia for entry into the European Union and for these reforms. Unfortunately, it's not as layered as it should be. It only takes place at the highest level, therefore, prime ministers, parliamentary deputies. Negotiating teams meet with some people from the administration there, most of whom I'm afraid I've never even been in Croatia. And in order to be successful on this path, our lobbying must be completely layered, therefore, including that certain units of local self-government, civil society, other organisations know what they can expect from the European Union to be familiar with what appears to be in the European Union, to be involved in all processes, not only political, but all the activities that the European Union is carrying out and to be practically and physically present in Brussels, they move in these circles to adapt and lead to citizens really taking the European Union as something that brings only future benefits to them. And to be personally convinced, not that we have to indirectly convince them that here, the European Union or some kind of Brussels will bring them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83941	Final review, Foreign Minister and European Integration Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83942	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I thank you for all the arguments and opinions that have been made in this debate today because really the process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is a process which is to call the ownership of all citizens. So first of all, you as representatives of representative democracy must and have the right to participate. When it comes to the debate itself, I would like to remind myself that the negotiations process is being discussed intensively within the framework of the National Committee for Accession of the Republic of Croatia, or for monitoring the negotiation process in which all clubs are represented. The Government also regularly submits the report twice a year after the end of each presidency to the Croatian Parliament. I am extremely glad, I am sorry that the esteemed representative Kovacevic is not here at the moment, but that we all really agree and what I pointed out at the outset that the basic thought of the leader of the accession negotiations is the quality agreed on with the aspect of protecting the most important national interests, which then determines the process of harmonisation of legislation rather than its speed. Although I stress that speed is certainly one of the elements that matters. I will now indeed try to answer all your questions and comments in this regard. There's been a lot of them. I'll try to systematicize it in a way. First of all, when it comes to the National Programme itself and what the esteemed representative Arlovic said, I agree with him, and I am glad that he explained what this is really a legal gain with which Croatian legislation is harmonised. So, that's a series of contracts, a directive, legal regulations that bring the legislation in line with which it's written on more than 80 thousand pages. It is also a fact that we have opted for the harmonisation of our legislation not because this is what the European Union is asking us to do. Therefore, not only because of membership as a goal in itself, but precisely to regulate political, economic, social and all other systems in the Republic of Croatia itself and to improve the standard of living for our citizens above all. Only two comments or arguments on the objections of the distinguished representative Arlovic, why are there no arguments attached and why does the Parliament accept only annex A and not the entire National Programme? I'm surprised that's the question that's only been asked now after five years, so when it comes to 5. It's a national program because it's been a practice so far. In fact, even after the debate in the Croatian Parliament in 2002, in January 2003, a conclusion was adopted that this solution is now being reached, or it is concluded that the National Programme is being sent to the Assembly for introduction and that the Parliament accepts Appendix A with the signing of legislative measures. Why is this list of legislative measures being amended? And why in 2006, why is a smaller number of laws passed? In fact, 28 were brought in, rather than originally foreseen. In 2006, it was a very specific year. And we personally and all of us emphasized every occasion when the National Programmes were coordinated and, when it was brought, when the Assembly accepted this annex, that it was a living, working document that complemented the needs and evaluations of the resistors. And certainly in 2006 there was a fact that just after the process of screening and the process of comparison and the depth of the analysis of Croatian legislation and its comparison with the acquis, only after the completion of that process can we be quite sure how much we have actually brought into line so far, which is what remains for harmonisation and what will be the subject of negotiations. The screening process has been completed in less than a year. And here they can indeed say that this negotiating team that has been talked about, if it is currently more than 2,000 people including the heads of professional associations, colleges, civil society, therefore not only the Government and the Croatian Parliament are involved through the National Committee, but also civil society and experts from Croatia. That after this process, which we have received the most positive assessments from the European Commission, it is also the conclusion of this breakdown, the comparison of the legislation. However, we still haven't received all the screening reports and we expect those reports in the first quarter of this year. The German Presidency made a commitment to this. And in fact, when all these reports arrive, then there will be a revision of this National Programme for this year, according to how the assessment is done, so that Croatia's obligations are possible criteria for opening and closing chapters and everything else, because I stress the measures that are legislative and all other measures that are adopted in this programme for 2007 are, above all, in line with the needs of negotiations with the negotiation process itself. Otherwise, the government is already giving a review of the framework plan, which will be coordinated for both 2008 and 2009. However, I should stress that the requirement set out today to set up a multi-annual programme before summer this year, a detailed coordination programme cannot be achieved since here we expect at the time of the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union, so next year, to hand over the largest number of negotiating positions, as well as to complete the verification of the criteria for opening negotiations. In this we also want to achieve some transitional periods, because normally Croatia cannot and that is also the point of negotiations, in fact, to negotiate not on the content of the acquis but on the transitional periods according to how we can adapt our entire system, so we will look for transitional periods. If we now install a plan of alignment in advance, so if we bring this definitive final plan by summer, it can also be a difficult circumstance in the fight for transitional periods, so be careful in planning dynamics because we do not want some battles for the interests of the Republic of Croatia not only to lose ahead but not to actually start them before we start negotiations in certain chapters. Furthermore, when it comes to certain laws that you have mentioned over the past year, why it has not been adopted on regional development. First of all, the fact is that we are still in the process of consulting the European Union on divisions of so-called. The NAC2 statistical regions and the subsequent division of which the European Union has not yet accepted, and the consultation process is ongoing, following this adoption, a map of regional support will be developed, a project of assistance for the development of regional support maps by the European Union is currently under way, and since negotiations have not started and a map of regional support on which the Regional Development Act depends is being developed together with the European Commission. Since it is a difficult topic that certainly defines the country, the whole country, the development of the Republic of Croatia, we want to pay really great attention to this issue, and therefore I think that when it comes to regional development, it really needs to be done very carefully, and after formal agreement with the DG region and Eurostat after making it, after accepting the division into statistical regions, then we should also approach concrete solutions. The concessions were indeed planned, but the complexity of the concession system was also recognised, and when we talk about this system, I mean not only the concession law but also 40 regulations governing concessions on the one hand, licences on the other. It's a huge legal job, and it just doesn't want to crash the whole system, it just comes down to equal rules for everyone and equal legal protection, too, for everyone. It should also be pointed out when it comes to the whole problem that, above all, the national interests of the Republic of Croatia and everything we want to protect through the concession system should be taken into account. I also have the opportunity to announce that, in cooperation with the OECD and in March with the IMF next week, the Government adopts guidelines for the drafting of the Law on concessions and 40 regulations in order to have both a starting base and a chart for all related sectoral laws. Furthermore, when it comes to the communication strategy, I really agree with you that it should be strengthened and strengthened, and I call on you this opportunity to be involved as parliamentary representatives in the implementation of the communication strategy itself, given that although it is the government's obligation, it is the government that can in part be credible in relation to Croatian citizens when it represents the advantages and disadvantages of membership in the European Union, and I certainly think that there is also a great credibility of parliamentary representatives, experts, especially members of the academic community, and I really think that the communication strategy and its implementation are obligations for all of us. I would also take advantage of the occasion to remind you that the Ministry regularly organizes so-called. National forums where we go from place to place in Croatia. For example, we are in Rijeka on Monday to discuss the truths and delusions of the European Union. I must say that we regularly invite parliamentary representatives to these forums, especially those from a particular county where we hold a forum. Unfortunately, the response is not always satisfactory and here I call on the now respected representative Mršić to join us at the national forums that we will hold if you want in Rijeka, but I wanted to invite you to Koprivnica and Virovitica to join us. Tourism as a therapeutic activity is extremely important, I agree completely, we are aware of the importance of actually harmonising this marginally, yet we are in part of an analysis of the effects of the membership of the Republic of Croatia on the Croatian economy and in general the overall life in the Republic of Croatia, this analysis that we asked the Economic Institute for last year, he is doing in cooperation with other institutions in Croatia, one of the extensive studies is just an analysis of the effects in tourism. So even though it's only a marginal alignment, we understand the importance of this activity and that's why you'll get results soon, I hope, they promised us somewhere in the 3rd month of this year that complete studies that we requested last year will be completed. Also... An analysis of every law I have to say, so at this point, every law that goes to Parliament follows the so-called. ... [[You don't understand.]] which currently comes down to financial effects and by July of this year, each law will monitor a full analysis of all financial, legal and other effects. [[You don't understand.]] Furthermore, as far as finance is concerned, someone mentioned the money being spent on. I note that the main part of the money spent in coordination is going towards judicial reform and science, and I think you will all agree that these are absolute priorities not only in the accession process but in general for the development of the Republic of Croatia. The law on hunting depends on the Law on concessions, so that's what it's about. I also note that, with the number of laws passed by the Croatian Parliament when it comes to harmonisation of legislation, the government has also adopted 414 regulations and other sublegal acts over the past three years, and this is also part of the coordination process. So it can not be said that it does not go at its right pace but that we are at these implementing stages when not only framework laws are passed but also implementing acts are also adopted and implementation is precisely the very core of that process. It is also important to say what you are facing, and all of you in the Croatian Parliament, that the laws that are being passed today are much more complex than just harmonizing with the directives at the beginning. And I cannot agree with the argument made today by the respected representative Kovacevic that it is about the literal half-translations of the directive. On the contrary, the bill's proposals are the result of a longer coordination process involving not only state administration bodies but also experts. Then he's being sent to the commission. The Commission is returning, again going to co-ordination with the authorities of the state administration on the final opinion of the commission and then being sent to the Croatian Parliament to the parliamentary committees and so on. So this is also one of the reasons why the process of harmonisation of legislation does not go as quickly as it did in the beginnings. Simply because we don't want our laws to go back to the process of re-coordination as it used to happen earlier if they only partially aligned because the law is only harmonised when it's fully harmonised. And I also reject the observation that the Croatian Parliament, that the Government is sending laws that have nothing to do with the alignment under P.Z.E. to go into emergency procedure. Because the laws always contain a declaration of conformity and a parallel display of compliance and I categorically claim that this government does not send laws that have nothing to do with harmonisation. Maybe someone's done it before, but this government sure as hell doesn't. It is also absolutely incorrect that in the accession process, in the negotiation process, we accept the conditions of individual members and that Italy and Slovenia defend the application of the ZERP or that their conditions in the negotiations are accepted. I am completely removing this, and this removes the European Commission itself, or the European Union itself, where it is very clear about the open issues that we have with our neighbours, saying that these are bilateral open issues that are not the accession process. We have a responsibility both for us and for the country with which we have open questions to resolve them if it is not possible to negotiate then to go to the international judicial authority. However, the European Union will neither interfere with the process's scale nor address these outstanding issues. And I would certainly remind myself, in fact, that the decision to suspend ZERP was made by the Croatian Parliament in relation to the Member States, the Member States of the European Union and last year, in fact, a decision was taken on its application no later than 1 January 2008. So the absolute government and the Republic of Croatia do not agree to any blackmail from anyone because national interests are above all. Finally, I would like to say and respond to these remarks that when it comes to reforms that unfortunately have been lost for 3 years and that nothing has been done. First of all, such arguments are refuted by a report on the progress of the European Commission which notes the progress of the Republic of Croatia in all areas, and I would like to remind you that last year's progress report is twice as short as for 2005 and that this progress is indeed being recorded. In some areas it is larger, but in some areas progress is recorded in all areas including the so-called. Chapter of obligations, taking on compulsory memberships as a matter of fact relating to harmonisation of legislation. And when it comes to reforms and how much is done, I think it's best to look at the situation at the time of our response to the questionnaire and compare it to today's situation. Not just with the progress report, but with everything we've done. For example, in reply to the questionnaire when it comes to small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, it points out that nothing is actually available on the Internet and, for example, Quick HR has solved it in such a way that we are actually talking about differences. Today we're talking about a spaceship compared to a very primitive vehicle at the time. So, absolutely not that they are not lost years, but indeed, they are really working on the implementation of all reforms. And when it comes to what was mentioned by the prominent MP Mimica that the previous government had ambitions for Croatia to be ready for membership in 2007 and that this government had drawn up in 2009. Yeah, maybe they were ambitions for 2007. However, they were not based on some projections since national plans at the time also referred to one-year rather than three-year or multi-year periods. And besides, if someone was thinking about the dates themselves, it's wrong again because the projections were wrong and I think the fact that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement signed shows that the wrong assumptions were actually being considered at times and when it comes to some complex political-social issues. I would remind you that according to this SAA, we were actually supposed to change the state support system completely in March last year. Give up support for the city of Vukovar, for hill-mounted areas. For areas of special state concern which I believe absolutely does not correspond to the social situation or priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as the entire Croatian Parliament. And not to mention the properties for which full liberalisation is foreseen under the SAA for 1 February 2009 regardless of whether Croatia is then a member of the European Union or not, which is certainly a very difficult situation in the negotiations in the capital movement chapter. Free movement of capital. So we need to get out of those positions that were drawn in the SAA. And finally, in the conclusion of this, all that has been said today, I thank everyone once again for the debate, for the constructive proposals. We continue to include them in both our work and our national programmes. They're very useful. This is a learning process for all of us not only by the European Union, the European Commission by the Member States from which we take over this experience but also the learning process where we as a government as well as by the basis of your observations and suggestions can correct our work. And here is also the final conclusion that this government will bring Croatia into the European Union by the end of this decade. Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83943	Thank you. Honorable representative Ante Markov, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83944	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, I have no intention of disputing or denying this final presentation of the distinguished foreign and European integration minister rather than, above all, explaining in fact one area which the distinguished minister touched And I do not think it correctly found that tourism is minor in terms of research carried out because the Government of Croatia's report says that the share of tourism in the gross social product in 2006 was 19.8% which is extremely high... [[Intruder: Explain.]] /Intruder: That's not what I'm saying. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83945	No, it's not said that tourism is minor. ... harmonising but... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83946	I was thinking of correcting an incorrect quote, an incorrect allegation. But since Minister Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic is also the final one, this government will introduce Croatia into the European Union. It's simply incorrect. This government will not introduce Croatia into the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83947	Okay, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83948	This government has introduced poverty into Croatia. So the World Bank... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83949	Peace, please! Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83950	It's incorrect that... is stated here that there was a delay in the use of ZERP until 2008. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] It is precisely an argument that Croatia is giving in to Italy, that the Croatian government has not yet clearly declared itself to the permanent, verbal adoptions of the Croatian government, so it was the berlusconia or Prodi where it is constantly claimed and even... as Zadar, Istria, the Dalmatian islands are historic Croatian, historical Italian countries. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] That is not what the Croatian government has shown itself to be. She needs to say it loud and clear. Why is it not marked 10.2. when a diplomatic battle was won for the accession of Istria, Zadar and the Dalmatian islands. Just... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83951	The Croatian Parliament was very clear on the territorial claims on the other side of the Adriatic. And distinguished representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83952	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, it is incorrect that the service of the HItro spaceship is as you said about small and medium entrepreneurship as compared to the period before. It is simply because the service of HItro only spoke about the establishment of companies, and does not speak about what should be said in this sector, the harmonisation of the Law on crafts, the Law on Cooperatives and the Law on Small and Medium Entrepreneurship with the property of the European Union. This did not happen during this three - year period, perhaps even for a four - year period. The pre-accession funds are not available to small and medium-sized craftsmen. And for your information, 12 grand, we have 12 billion blocks in the FINA. 30,000 people work in these companies. The largest number is small and medium. In fact, it didn't seem too much for them, and the HItro service can do the least there.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83953	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2007, Appendix A to the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for accession to the European Union for 2007. I am voting on a proposal for a coordination plan. We can vote! The result? With 93 for, 13 abstentions, a proposed plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83957	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Article 6(4) lays down the rules for the application of Article 6(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, has drawn up a list of candidates entering the narrow selection of judges of the Constitutional Court. To elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee proposes a list of candidates who include Boris Koketti and Professor Davor Krapac. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia was notified by the President of the Constitutional Court on 13 September 2006 by the Croatian Parliament that Judge Milan Vukovic's term of office of Judge of the Constitutional Court on 1 March 2007. It is therefore necessary to select by that date a judge of the Constitutional Court to continue to act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 6(1) The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the procedure for running the Constitutional Court judge and proposing to elect the Croatian Parliament is carried out by the Board of the Croatian Parliament responsible for the Constitution. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament referred in accordance with Article 6. Constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia calls for judicial institutions, law schools, the Bar Association, legal associations, political parties, other legal persons and individuals to propose candidates for the election of one judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The call was issued in "The People's Newspaper" number 132 from 2006. The candidates for Boris Koketi, Professor Davor Krapco, Andrija Labos, Martha Vidakovic-Mukic arrived on time. The Committee argued that all candidates meet the conditions for selecting the Constitutional Court judges established by the Constitution and constitutional law and accepted the candidacys. The Committee called for a public discussion by all candidates, and on that occasion the Committee members asked the candidates a number of questions on which they gained the impression of a particular candidate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that, on the basis of the data collected and the results of the public conversation, the committee shall draw up a list of candidates entering a narrow election for the judges of the Constitutional Court and, as a rule, the list of candidates shall contain more candidates than the number of judges of the Constitutional Court to be elected. With this in mind, the Committee has decided to draw up a list of two candidates. On the occasion of the establishment of the list, the members of the Committee declared themselves to be individual candidates. On the occasion of his statement on candidates, he pointed out that Professor Davor Krapac is a respected university professor with a number of published works, he is a great authority in the field in which he deals, and he also participated in the construction of the Christmas Constitution. It was also stressed that Boris Koketti had successfully performed responsible judicial duties during the working council, and, as assistant justice minister, made a significant contribution to judicial reform and increased trust in the land's books. These are decisive reasons why the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system has defined these two candidates in relation to others who have also shown an enviable level of expertise. Such a commitment by the Committee was confirmed by a public vote, which unanimously established the proposal to be forwarded to the Croatian Parliament. The process of identifying and proposing candidates was fully transparent and followed by a great public interest and was attended by representatives of the OSCE, GONG and Press in public talks and sessions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia provides a list of all candidates who fulfil the conditions for the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and complete documentation on the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83958	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, a respected representative, Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83959	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! The SDP representative club must be said at first, it believes that, along with the proposal, these two candidates should also deliver materials on the other two remaining two candidates because they are formally and legally fulfilling and they, pardon the conditions. And in that respect, we should, in fact, want to say, not to deliver but to indicate that they have also met these conditions and then further explain why the Committee has specifically identified these two candidates as proposals relating to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. It's about what it's about. It is very clear that the Constitutional Law states that for a Constitutional Court judge, a person who is a Croatian citizen, a graduate lawyer with at least 15 years of experience in the legal profession that has been highlighted by scientific or professional work or by his public action can be selected. Now of course, if it's about a person who's acquired a doctorate or scientific knowledge, she has to, she doesn't have to be 15, she can have enough to have only 12 years of work in the profession. In this regard, we must say that, formally, all four candidates, and in particular these two candidates who are proposed, meet the requirements. And there's some kind of big formal objection we don't have. However, the question is raised, or the question can be raised, from the point of view, how are formal conditions met and met? And starting with that assumption and starting with Article 5. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court for us is quite clear and fully visible from the proposed materials, résumés, lists and works on both scientific and professional matters, but if you want one candidate to absolutely bounce from all other candidates and that this issue is so elaborated and visible that it is practically incomparable to the other three candidates, and also to one of the candidates proposed by the Committee. It is about Professor Dr Krapac, Davor Krapac, who is quite clear that in all this work that is easy to isolate from the CV and which is visible, it is very nice to see that in practically 33 years and 5 months of work, that he has passed all the areas of legal profession from law enforcement to a scientist who has made a huge contribution not only to the narrow speciality of criminal law but also to the protection of human rights and freedoms, to the protection and achievement of the Constitution of prescribed rights and freedoms. In addition, he personally participated in the Constitutional Commission for the adoption of the Constitution, in making the Christmas Constitution. Thus, it should be said that he made a significant contribution to his part and made his contribution to achieving the Constitution itself through the legislative activity and work in professional bodies, the Ministry of Justice and, above all, to other ministries and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the construction of certain laws that should and have contributed to the recovery of both the Christmas Constitution and the amendment and the addition of the Constitution and from '97. and 2001 and 2002 respectively. The second thing we'd like to point out is the fact that in all this time since the '90s. Professor Krapac here was not only a member of the Constitutional Commission for the Construction of the Constitution, but he was also in a whole series of other working bodies of the Croatian Parliament of the Committee on Justice as is now, for example, in the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. So he was in the State Attorney's Council, the State Judicial Council, etc., and in this respect it is quite clear that through this work he made a huge contribution not only to public consideration of certain issues, but first of all to the scientific aspect and the implementation of the arguments in the making and adoption of laws at the level of the legislative body which should have provided those regulations which must and should allow the Croatian Constitution to be implemented on the one hand. And on the other hand, in the transition process, our legislation is at the same time in line with the acquis of the European Union, which is greatly contributed by Professor Krapac. Not only do I say through our working bodies and through our public work, but also through membership in the various bodies of the Council of Europe, then at meetings, at conferences and specialist seminars in the Council of Europe, in the European Union and across in fact scientific institutions in which it is a member. We should remind that he is a member of the Law Academy, that he is a member of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and in this respect is quite clear again in the name of our club, that Professor Davor Krapac is far away from what from his scientific and his professional and public action, which stems from his résumé, which comes from his works written, scientific papers, books, his contribution to the work on the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament which we, as representatives, have not only come to know and see, but often with a valid argument to hear arguments of legal nature which have helped many regardless of party membership to take a more quality political stance regarding the adoption of some or some of the laws that are the subject of the agenda. We are glad that other fellow workers who are interested have also appeared for another reason that we would especially like to point out. It's about the fact that the other three colleagues actually proposed themselves. This fellow who has been accepted by our committee to enter a tight circle or as another candidate is himself suggested. This, of course, is accepted by the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and such an option opens up and nothing is disputed in formal terms. But it should also be taken into account when and in what cases it happens that the quality of scientific, professional contribution and the public, then, in particular, contributes through their public action, and for some persons as candidates for such a responsible job, the institution stands. And in this respect, it should be said that the absolute advantage for us with colleague Davor Krapco is because he is proposed by the scientific institution he is working on, by the Faculty of Law or more precisely than the Scientific Educational Council itself and in this respect and the Dean, and in this respect it is quite clear that in such a situation this argument is more than anything we know about the candidate or what we can from the accompanying documents, from the accompanying work lists. From the knowledge of the work in science, we would further conclude that, in our mutual interest, it would be in our mutual interest to obtain such a candidate for the Constitutional Court Judge, because in his scientific, theoretical knowledge, he would, in his practical experience gained in the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, constitutional and legal committees, which he obtained through his work on the application of the legal rules, greatly contribute to the achievement and implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and, in addition, it is necessary to indicate another special duty performed by his fellow Krapac or which he has performed and as part of his public action. He is also an external adviser to the Constitutional Court when it comes to particularly complex issues in the area of law and with which the Constitutional Court can meet in the adoption of individual solutions. In that segment, he gave and managed to resolve certain issues along with the Constitutional Court itself. He gave his professional and scientific opinions which have contributed greatly to the work of the Constitutional Court so far to protect and protect not only human rights and freedoms from the aspect of a possible individual constitutional suit but above all from the aspect of the protection of the constitutionality and legality of the legal rules which should be in accordance with both the Constitution and the law and which the Constitutional Court assesses their constitutionality or legality. Starting from all of this for our club is quite clear and we have no doubts about the proposed candidates. Our Club of Representatives will vote for colleague Davor Krapec to become a Constitutional Court judge because we consider, with respect and all the other candidates, that this is better than the candidate who meets the formal, content, scientific, professional and professional content that is related to public work than any of the other candidates who also fulfil these conditions but not as well and as good and quality as Professor Davor Krapac does, and therefore, the SDP's Club of Representatives will vote for this candidate and, if it passes from the heart, we want it to continue with scientific, professional and public action to ensure full constitutionality and legality as an essential assumption in fact of the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia through the work of the Constitutional Court and through the assessment of the constitutionality of acts and regulations that will arise as possible, possible dispute against him and through the natural protection of human rights and freedoms which are particularly prescribed in the cases in which our citizens are required in accordance with the law and their right to be required. Thank you very much. So we'll vote for this candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83960	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party, the Club of Representatives is a co-chairwoman, Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83961	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In this decision relating to the judge of the Constitutional Court, the situation puts before us an option which is not common and so common that we can also strengthen the authority of an extremely important institution for Croatia whose authority is largely derived from the personal, professional, scientific authority of the people who make it. So personal and authority and integrity, personal biography of people who are constitutional judges largely adds or contributes or takes away the authority of the Constitutional Court institution itself and throughout the concept of institutional strengthening of Croatia, which is one of our fundamental and tasks and problems and requirements on this path towards the Europeanisation of Croatian institutions, is certainly an important decision. It seems that from the procedure that was conducted this time it can be concluded that and to me it seems to have been fully in line with how it should be done. So not only by law but also procedurally transparent, by the way, I would like to remind you that it seems that we may have deviated from such a procedure in a previous case, and thus lost today's position as Attorney General Juric Malcic from this composition of the Constitutional Court judges. Today we have a different procedure than we are, which was when my colleague Malcic ran for office and when we didn't have this kind of transparent procedure or we had this kind of insight and the ability to choose between candidates. As regards the Constitutional Court, given the procedures we have had so far, and given the composition, I think it is quite obvious that the authority of the institution itself is, in the light of its role in the war years of the Constitutional Court, a rather serious attack on its own authority and on its own reputation by the fact that this case has not been resolved in any way in the course of Judge Vukojevic's term of office. And if anything like that just underlines the need to try at least now and at least as much as it is in our power, given that we are a Parliament rather than a State's Attorney's Office, so how much is it in our power to contribute to the authority of that institution being improved, to return, to contribute to it by a positive choice that is before us today. Now, in no area does it often happen that we have a candidate of such rank and qualifications as Professor Krapac. I'm not saying anything, all the other candidates like my predecessor here said the same meet the condition, technically everything's fine. But it happened here that someone who, of course, did not stem his authority from the very fact that he was a university professor. University professors also have all sorts of, different meanings, different periods of scientific and different reputations and authority in the academic domestic and international community. But Professor Krapac has the authority that maybe 10 percent of people in the scientific community in the first place. It therefore crosses formal frameworks and qualifications that can be expressed on the basis of insight into the résumé or insight into the scientific opus. Although I have insight into the scientific opus that we have here by his list of papers is a strong enough argument and speaks for itself. However, Professor Krapac, of course, and by the basis of his scientific work and the basis of the professional work of international and advisory functions in various institutions related to Parliament, has the authority of experts for the Constitutional Court, therefore, for state bodies, which I think is never questioned at all. So with this candidate coming up, we have a chance not only to choose a high-quality candidate, and it's a rare case that I don't think any of the anti-candidians could even feel affected that he's chosen a Krapac compared to anyone else. So we have the option of selecting not only an extremely high-quality candidate for whom relatively rarely happens to even run for this type of function. Instead, we have a chance to contribute to the construction and strengthening of the institutional capacity of Croatia, i.e. in this particular case the reputation of power and the institutional capacity of the absolute Constitutional Court. I think it would be completely irresponsible to miss that chance when we've already got it. So it is unquestionable that the CNS will support Professor Krapco as Judge of the Constitutional Court. But I urge you to consider other colleagues to think in these frameworks what would potentially mean for the Constitutional Court. And certainly it would mean one very necessary, and a very obvious positive shift. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83962	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, colleague Damir Cain. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83963	Dear Madam Vice President. I really hope that today will not repeat that shameful agreement of 7 or 8 years ago when positions in the Constitutional Court traded on the two, or three parties, and thus de facto the Constitutional Court turned into a single company. True, before that year 2000 and after 2000, the Constitutional Court did some big, really big things. It is enough to mention the return or compensation of pensioners, which is finally on its 2006/2007. Comes or comes around 400,000 people. Is today about some political agreement with possibly some delayed deadline that will be seen in the 9th or 10th, 11th of this year, I don't know. But I'm sure this body should be depolitized. There must be people, as my predecessors have said, full of one moral, professional and legal authority and certainly human authority. I want to believe that today's debate and today's elections are going that way. Thus, affirmation and return of trust clearly in the rule of law, regardless of the fact that the Constitutional Court is not a classical court. But that's why their decisions have that far-reaching meaning, whether it's the compensation of the pensioners, whether it's denationalisation, whether it's military housing, whether it's human rights. We also see that today's debate is much more normal than the one we participated in there in '99. A year. And this already points to the strengthening of trust in that institution, indirectly clear and legal state. Even though our citizens will have huge reserves for them in the future. Vesna Pusic, the vice president, spoke about the authority of the Constitutional Court that stems from the judges themselves, from their lives among other things, but also the relationship I would tell this House to their election and vice versa, the relations of the Constitutional Court to the executive and representative authorities. Until now, the Constitutional Court has been in a manner and a political court by 2000. Today, it is far less and this institution really needs to be supported by correct and fair debates both in this Parliament and in the correct elections of judges. Mrs. Vice President of this House mentioned the case of Judge Vukojevic and that he was the attack, I literally quote: "...at the court's authority.". I'm in part with that. But I would also say that the deal is that trade, prostitution parties in '99. The year surrounding the election of judges was a real attack on that institution, not just the choice of one judge or another. That's true. Everything else is about throwing dust in your eyes. So we can't have the judiciary because of the choices made in this House, the proposals we know how to go 100% depolitical, but by choosing judges we can't politicize. We don't have to set up a choice of judges with one word, especially the Constitutional Court, normally no court, we don't have to trade these elections, we don't have to favour anyone, because that's when we create debtors in these institutions in court, and that leads to an independent judiciary. Our choice as a club is similar to the choice of my other predecessors, however, we will see whether the 99th trade continues in the 9th, 10th, 11th month of this year when the re-election also awaits several judges of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83964	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the HSLS Club, colleague Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83965	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. He's right, colleague Cain, this choice of this one judge is just actually a mini-convincing what's going to happen this fall when we're waiting for the election, another 8 judges of the Constitutional Court. And it's nice to hear that we advocate depolitisation and it's as a principle is very good and desirable, but this decision is made by the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament is a couple of excellent political bodies and this decision again however we want to show it, it has this very political dimension in it and it is very difficult to remove politics from this one, not this one, but any stories when it is for us Croatian parliamentarians to be able to choose something, and it is not easy to choose, and indeed it is one thing, the whole philosophy is talking about freedom of choice as a curse. And we really do have in many situations, we would actually like to give up this opportunity to choose, but it is always better to choose Parliament I do not know but do not give up God one man. We have negative experiences with the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court and are always mentioned in that 99th year, mentioning some names, some people. Let's be honest that it was not all great after that either, and in many, and also in many other elections, colleague Pusic mentioned one, we could put certain remarks and certain speculations that were then present in the election for this rather than another person, and that is a fact, we should not run away from it and say that it is a curse of choice that can always be put into question and in some way undermined by this, something called political trade. What's good and what's to praise that practice is trying to change what really pressures the public was so that what happened in '99 also forced politics, so somewhere in the early 2000s we did bring some new rules of play, some new procedure and this new procedure in some way made it impossible or reduced those negative tails that have been dragged since the last big election in the late 99s. And now the introduction of these new customs is to be commended, this "hiring" institution to come to see candidates who are in some way presented and who in some ways this very possibility of representing you still allows you to approach the decision with less discomfort. I was partly on this last committee, the board which had also questions which there, or which was inauguration by one of our fellow representatives,... so they may act perhaps not too much and seriously, but they do reveal some truths about some people, and I find it really hard to accept as judge of the Constitutional Court a man who would say that the Constitution would prohibit the right to abortion. [[You don't understand.]] If it is within my doctrine, my worldview one such attitude is actually a man who should sit in the Constitutional Court automatically disqualifying it. Many of these other candidates did not have opinions on relatively simple issues, although I say I must admit it is not easy to answer within this yes and no and I have no attitude, it is always the most difficult questions and the most difficult answers that we have faced and as during our education. Between this and not hiding all fate and all the worlds. For these very reasons, the HSLS club will appeal to vote by conscience, meaning there is no party attitude and party discipline. I could also really talk here and say that I respect the opus of certain people, their academic weight, professional weight, after all, and I come from that world myself, so, but I also say exactly no way to not, not to give ourselves away because it's not easy even in those 15 minutes for people who most often know absolutely nothing, not about their hobbies, about their interests, and so you have to say some decision and that decision is mostly a curse. This narrowing down of this number has again helped in some way to the Assembly, because the Committee is a serious body and has a serious president who really, and the Vice President, who has led it very and wisely and kept exactly the necessary amount of seriousness, and sometimes when it seems to be able to go like this in a little bit, something that doesn't belong to the dignity and the institution that is being run for, and also this House that I suggest, we will, however, think that we are leaving ourselves as a club right to really vote on our conscience and in this way we think that there will still be a critical mass of people who have done it in this court and indeed brought a whole series of important and courageous decisions, and in some way they have kept the right of this country, regardless of the whole, the unfavourable episode of 99 years ago has not really been the critical mass of people who have done it in this court and indeed made a very important number of decisions, and in fact that many of our own rightful people have not really had the rightness, and that they know the right of the right of the rights and the rights and the right of the rights and the right of the right of the right of the people, and the right of the right of the rights of the right of the right of the law, and the right of the right of the right of the law, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the law, and the right of the right of the rights and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the people, and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the people and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of That is why we would like to see this election really responsibly and this very fact that the Committee has helped and offered two candidates that each individual's conscience not party or discipline be important when choosing a new member I say to the Constitutional Court, and all this is expensive only one treasure that convinces us of what awaits us this autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83966	... fellow representative, on behalf of the Croatian Pecek Club, co-legislator Zeljko Pecek. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83967	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This time, too, what we may not want to admit to ourselves is always happening to us. Between several candidates, in this case between the two candidates, we must choose one and the hands that decide to do so are just us. But under me, I think those hands are governed by politics. How much conscience can be ahead of politics if we individually want to decide on the best candidate between these two, of course, we have to judge for ourselves. However, we can probably choose the model that is best to make it happen. Will there be political trade again we heard here today some doubts. Obviously, it was in some elections before. We're scared today. We're equally afraid it'll happen in a few months. It's interesting here about this political trade we're talking about. We're afraid, and that's exactly what we advocates decide. In some ways, we accuse ourselves of being involved and such political trade. That's why we at the HSS Club suggest we consider the possibility of a secret vote on this occasion. Obviously, the cheers will be for one of the two candidates, and this would be an opportunity to apply Article 231 of our Rules of Procedure, where it is said, that the secret vote is actually being held in the rule of choice or designation when the number of candidates proposed is greater than the number elected or appointed. Now, in that case, we might avoid the influence of direct policy on the hands that rise here by one or another candidate in this House. In that case, our conscience would probably be much cleaner, and I suppose they would at least eliminate any possibility of political trade. If you don't remove it then at least reduce it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83968	Thank you, colleague. No more club reports, so we'll go to an individual debate. The first one came from fellow MP Stazic. Here you go. ... He's gone. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He's losing his word. The next one is counterpart Josipovic. Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83969	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! If someone who doesn't know the political scene and who doesn't know the right to the profession had listened to the debate of counterpart Arlovic, you might think that Professor Krapac is a prominent SDP activist. You might think that if he'd listened to Mrs. Vesna Pusic, of course, about the HNS. Fortunately, I know Professor Krapco directly and personally, and I can tell you that he does not support any of these parties and that he is neither a sympathiser nor an even less member of any of these parties. Why do I tell you this? That's what I'm saying as an overture to what I'm trying to say. The choice of a Constitutional Court judge is an assault. It is a menace for every politician and every policy in the sense of whether to vote for one candidate whom he assumes will be returned to him tomorrow for a political favor when a decision is made, there are often important decisions of the Constitutional Court. So that's one alternative. Or they'll decide on a choice by conscience. Well, of course, my colleague Kramaric's conscience. There's no party discipline that would make me vote for a candidate I don't believe is professional and completely independent political. There is no such discipline for me. So, will you decide to do your country a favor and vote for that judge who is absolutely immune to political influence and who we assume is professional enough to make the right, professional and moral decision. The Constitutional Court judge has been told and is no ordinary judge. That may be why relatively few judges from their careers are reporting for that position. The Constitutional Court judge is a top intellectual for me. It is a person who knows our society, who knows our legal system but who is high enough to see across the board and to recognize whether in European law, international law has something good and positive that we must and should enter into our legal system. In particular, this applies to human rights, to the protection of human rights and to how our right should be interpreted. Namely, it is the interpretation that is very often missing from our lawyers. We're actually in a happy situation today. We are in a happy situation because I really need today's choice, and it has to be an overture in the 11th month election. Today we are in a position to forget everything that has happened in previous elections, all pre-elections, all settings, games, kitchens and agreements that have really led to a large part of the public thinking that politics has not chosen the best judges of the Constitutional Court at all times. No matter the political color, in the name of the trade. We are in a happy position for the reason that today we can inauguration today or tomorrow, when voted, the rule by which we will look at expertise and independence and by which we will resist the attack that I was saying that for the reason of one of our political opportunities we choose a candidate who may not be what the Constitutional Judge should be. The truth is, our choices today are much easier. Namely, we have four candidates each of whom deserves our respect. It's four candidates that meet the formal, so I'd say mostly professional criteria. However, the difference in fundamentally meets the requirements between these candidates one and all three others is so dramatic that the choice that would not follow the criteria of profession and morality in terms of qualification, as I say everyone deserves our respect is a clear slap that this Parliament would hit the Croatian public and Croatian democracy. And I am quite confident that this Croatian Parliament will get the strength to select a candidate who meets these high standards and I would say to the highest criteria that not everyone in the law, which are somewhere in the air, which we all feel. And by doing so, those elections at the 11th month will now motivate and formulate in another way. Thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83970	Thank you very much, colleague. The next one is the representative of Ante Markov. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83971	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The fundamental task of the Constitutional Court comes from the Constitutional Law which regulates the procedure of the Constitutional Court's election. And Article 2 states that the Constitutional Court guarantees the respect and application of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to selecting a member of the Constitutional Court and discussing it through a possible higher number of candidates such as this today, it can be called a democratic but, above all, based on the procedure prescribed by the law and the Constitution, how a member of the Constitutional Court is elected. Of course, political parties are sitting in Parliament. Political parties with all their differences. With your social and political thinking, your proventy and everything that makes you different. Of course, the criteria prescribed and those criteria that are not prescribed and which really require the Constitutional Judge to be an intellectual. To be a man who trusts in the system, but who primarily trusts in the Constitution. That it is the highest value and achievement that, in the ethical, scientific, human and moral sense, this society has. But of course I return to the Parliament's decision, in every parliament, each parliament has its political or social provention within the political parties. Ways of looking at the social reality. Ways of looking even at how the Constitutional Court judge should work? What values of the Constitution should be sustained and unrelentingly defended? What are the lower limits that the Constitutional Court judge may leave without betraying not only the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia but also the trust he has received. I do not doubt that the judges of the Constitutional Court as well as the judges of other courts are different by their commitment, and therefore I do not agree with the call for the choice of one to mean political pragmatism. To not vote for one candidate in terms of the argument that one has all the prelongatives to have is a political act, and the other is not a political act. All that happens in this House is simply the political goal of the will of the people who decide and want to vote. I personally as a member of a party that keeps conservative based on these beliefs and orientations try to read out the greatest closeness with the candidates that are proposed here. And that, with the fact that everyone is meeting the conditions that we have set out and that the Constitution has assumed gives me an absolutely legitimate right that no one can call me for my personal decision that based on these pro-proventies and reflections, I will vote in the way that I am going to vote. And there's no reason and no argument higher, smaller, medium that will impose a god-awful aurel of politics on those who think differently from anyone else. Therefore, thinking about who will be voted on by each individual as well as the mandate belongs to each of us. Therefore, when it comes to making a decision this important, then it is not necessary to try to avoid politics to create a new policy but rather, on the basis of its views, convinced of the correctness of what the Committee has offered and two equal candidates should be chosen for one of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83972	Thank you, colleague. Next is MP Miljenko Doric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83973	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be very brief but I found it necessary to say a few sentences in the course of this debate. We heard how it was done before. We've heard what mistakes have been made, and it seems to me that today we're doing the first major turning point and today we're going to choose the judges of the Constitutional Court in a very different way. I want to thank my colleagues Bošnjakovic and the members of our Committee on the Constitution in the way they worked. It was the first time we've worked transparently. The board talked to all the candidates. The committee has entered into their professional life stories in detail, which is good and should be done. Namely, however, what you need to ask yourself here is whether you can work even better and how you can essentially make a step further that ours would say positive selection in all areas is even more effective. That is why I will only say a few sentences about how they do it in other European parliaments, and especially in the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly where the highest democratic standards apply. The first question we have to ask ourselves is whether our committee in charge has a right and even if it has the right to eliminate those candidates that it does not think we should be offered. This time we see that they have suggested that the two of them be eliminated, and the two are proposed to the Parliament and that the Parliament then decides among them. I will tell you colleagues and colleagues that in most European parliaments the Committee will do even more courageously its work and will propose the basis of clear criteria, criteria that all will be able to meet at any time, based on these criteria only one candidate will be proposed, a single candidate will be proposed, but all those who meet the requirements will be on the list so that in case someone thinks they should vote for someone else, they will have such an opportunity. But therefore, the Committee is brave with the help of the profession, so even people from various professions are invited, if there are elections, then from NGOs, etc. But the board comes up with one name and one last name. Based on clear criteria. But I repeat, it does not eliminate the others. The vote goes how? The vote in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and in most of the parliaments when it comes to judges of the Constitutional Court is a secret, therefore, secret vote. So I suggest that we make that little shift in the future, too, so that we can actually encourage our committees when it comes to various choices to actually suggest who is best among the candidates, and then we can decide whether or not we're going to support them. I will tell you that in European countries where this is done, what the Committee proposes on the basis of clear, professional, scientific criteria, criteria of experience, criteria I do not know of previous work in various areas that are relevant for this election in 99% of the cases will also pass. He's not here, he's passing. And I'm saying, we shouldn't be afraid to go that way if there are clear professional and other criteria that are important for such a choice. This time it seems to me that no harm has been done because it is evident that one of the candidates is so bounced by professional, scientific and other criteria than the others, he is among these two who have been offered to us, but in the future my proposal is to say another small, small step to do what I think would be most effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83974	Thank you very much, colleague. There are no more registered deputies. On behalf of the promoter, the final word is MP Bošnjaković. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83975	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I just want to thank all the participants in this debate on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. And we have indeed tried very hard to comply with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and we have carried out this procedure as transparently as we have done. We published an invitation to the People's Newspaper, we found that all candidates met the requirements, we held a conversation here with them with press representatives and representatives of NGOs. And according to the law that said that, as a rule, that it was proposed means more candidates than those elected, we proposed two candidates. So we don't consider this a question of what fellow Doric said about the courage to propose only one candidate. Just now, counterpart Pusic spoke on the subject that in some previous election there was only one candidate and that she would be much, much more pleased if there were two candidates. Here, thank you all for the debate. And I think the Committee on the Constitution has indeed carried out this procedure very correctly and transparently. And now it's up to us as Parliament to decide that one of these two candidates should be a constitutional judge. For that, of course, it must get most of the votes from the total number of MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83976	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The debate is over.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83977	And now let's go to this final vote. What are you gonna throw away your membership card? Proposal for a list of candidates for the selection of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with Article 231 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, on the election of a Constitutional Court judge, will be held a secret vote since the number of candidates proposed is higher than the number elected. The election requires most of the total number of representatives, Article 6(7) of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. Honored representative on behalf of HSP club Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83978	Mr. President, you said this was the final vote today.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83979	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83980	So I'm interested in what happened to the vote on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Political Parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83981	There's still some consulting to be done, so we'll do it next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83982	We're hoping for good consultations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83983	Next time, and it'll be a good spring when it's done. Now, I ask that four MPs and MPs help carry out a secret vote. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Nikola Vuljanic, Silvano Hrelja and Emil Tomljanovic. It is the Supervisory Board for the conduct of the vote. All right, everybody, please, let's go to the box. Let's go to the vote. There's Mrs. and Mrs. Representatives to announce the results of the vote. The vote is over. Of the 152 MPs for the Constitutional Court's election, 104 MPs received a vote, 104 voted. There were 5 wrong ballots. The candidates received the following number of votes: Boris Koketi 26, Davor Krapac 73, as I now declare 77 that no candidate has been elected as judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. That vote is now going on again the same procedure. Registrations for the vote in the fall, we vote for, or should choose another 6, 7, 8 judges. I'm closing the 24th session. The next session will be, I'm sure we'll have a three-week break.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83985	We can start with the next item on the agenda by the break. Next is the proposal for a Law on Equalisation of Pension Retirement (State Pension) – Proposer of the SDP Advocacy Club, first reading of P.Z. No. 581. The bill promoter is the SDP Representatives' Club. When setting the agenda, you accepted the emergency procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The SDP club has requested consent for presentation and delivery of portable media. You have clearance. On behalf of the SDP club, MP Vidovic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83986	Here are my colleagues and colleagues with special pleasures I would like to present to you the bill that we are solving one of those problems in Croatia that has been spoken of for a long time, which directly enlists at this time at least 336 thousand people, and in the future and a far greater number of people. It is about all those pensioners who have retired from January 1st 1999 and who will retire in the following years until the pension system begins to function in Croatia as it was designed in '99. the year as a system with three pillars in which it will therefore be retained as pillar I of the system of generation solidarity and two pillars, compulsory retirement insurance and III. Voluntary retirement pole. You can switch slowly so we can have a presentation. So at this point, Croatia has a mixed public-private pension system based on this three-part pension insurance. And let me briefly remind you that in the years that have followed us or more precisely since '99. the year when there was a change in the pension system and the reform of pillar I that major significant changes occurred. It is true that this I pillar of pension insurance retains fundamental characteristics, meaning ongoing funding based on the principles of reciprocity, solidarity, non-transportability of law. However, fundamental parameters have changed which affect the sustainability of that insurance or pension system as a whole, conditions for the exercise of rights have changed, part of the right has been abolished, part has been transferred to the welfare system, the way in which pension is determined. All of this has had an impact on the dynamics of retired, pension, income, expenditure, etc. Which actually changed with that '99 reform. A year? First, a larger and permanent reduction in early retirement was introduced. The definition of disability adapted to the market economy has changed. The age limits for age and early retirement have been gradually increased by 5 years. The accounting period from which salaries are paid to determine pensions is gradually expanding, spreading three years each calendar year from the previous 10 most favourable years, in the 99th year to the entire working life as it will be in 2009. There's been a change in the way pensions are coordinated. I remind you that a famous Swiss formula has been introduced that they tried to change here in the term of this government and yet it has returned to the past. Rights, some rights of socio-protective character, say the right to compensation for assistance and care, the right to train children for life and work have been abolished in retirement and transferred to the welfare system. For the right to a protection allowance with a pension abolished, a specific replacement of the lowest pension has been introduced. Employment rights have also been abolished for the remaining working capacity of the team in respect of the right to pay. What's the result of all these changes? Well, the result is what the pension reform projectors actually wanted. Stabilised pension insurance based on generation solidarity in this cost aspect has been reduced by the inflow of new pensioners. I remember in '99 it was the last year of mass retirement, 80,000 people retired that year, but it came because of these changes due to disabled people, etc. The number of insurance and pensioners in proportion to below 1:4:1 has been stabilised and the share of pension expenditure in GDP has been reduced to around 11.6% in 2006, i.e. gross social product. But what else has happened, what else is the result or rather the consequence of these changes within the pension system? Unfortunately, besides what was intended to be achieved, things happened that were not wanted. First of all, none of the projectors of the pension reform could have imagined or well calculated that pensions would fall as rapidly and at this rate as it has been in the past 7-8 years, so that these pensions today really came below the level that guarantees the elemental minimum existential security of people receiving pensions. Something also happened in the meantime, which led to a proportion relative to the pensions achieved by then. Let's move on, we're going to skip this because of pension cuts, etc. You can have another slide. What do we have at this point as a state of affairs? We have average pensions for new pensioners who in 2005 were on average lower by about 30% compared to their pensions in 98. I think this year it's 34% lower pension. The average pensions of old pensioners in September 2006 amounted to 2094,00 kuna while the average pension of new pensioners during that period amounted to 1,563.00 kuna. So there's a difference of even 530,00 kuna between old and new pensioners watching average pensions. How did that difference happen? We mentioned the differences for the reduction. So how is it possible that this difference, that it appears so drastically? So I'll say because the old pensioners during the adoption of different measures to improve their position, above all through the decision-making of the Constitutional Court on the repayment of debt and the compensation of pensioners in 2000 and 2001, have passed laws that turned debt returns to pensioners by as much as 770 thousand pensioners in 2000, of which 667 thousand kuna received an immediate increase in pensions by 20%. When added, it meant an additional 2 billion and 400 million kuna at that point. I remind you it was a time when total pension expenditures were 19 billion. When it adds that, at the end of 2002, an allowance of 100,00 kuna and 6% as a kind of compensation introduced by the Matešina Government was made, the decision to continue and continue the payment as a permanent, life-long supplement was made, pensions were further increased by 160,00 kuna on average, and thus there was a difference of nearly 400,00 kuna as the monthly average increase in pensions based on the repayment of debt to pensioners. And look actually at this scheme and you can see what it looked like when it came to pension growth in the 2000-2003 and 2003-2006 mandates. In the term of office, between 2000 and 2003, the total increase in pensions increased by 562 kuna, which was 49% by 4 years when the percentage was converted. What does that mean? How much was that increase? The best testimony is that in the last three years, the nominal increase in pensions is only 163.00 kuna. When it all turns into real pension growth now, it means when they are taken away from pension growth in those years, they take away the cost of life, inflation, etc. There is a 9.5% pension growth in 2000. - In 2003 and now out of only 0.6% of pension growth. This curve shows that in 2001 we had pension expenditure in the total social product or at 13.87%, almost 14%. These expenditures now fell in 2005 to 11.92 and in 2006 to 11.6% of gross social product. So the share of pensions has been falling continuously for five years in the social product. Remember this table because it is, this chart because it is very important for the proposal that we are talking about. So there is no doubt that a respected colleague and colleagues, that the problem, that the problem has become drastic, is drastically expressed and that he has to be resolved for several reasons. First, due to the low level of pensions confirmed by the World Bank's findings yesterday presented to the Croatian public, which shows that in Croatia among the fifth of the poor, the objectively poor greatest risk of poverty is low education, unemployment and age. Age is a risk to poverty in Croatia, which is unacceptable. A huge number of pensioners are below the poverty line. Why does this law still have to be passed? Because it's a generation of pensioners who have found themselves in a habitual break between the old pension system and the new pension system that these young colleagues of ours are about to use, who are just leaving, who we welcome. So they found themselves between an unreformed and a reformed pension insurance system. The third reason is the principle of solidarity. We cannot disrespect the fundamental principle on which the Constitution rests. And I'd say some elemental social solidarity must be present in this system as well. The fourth reason is precisely those differences that are getting bigger, so it's right to say that the later you retire, the more you do, that your pension will be less. And finally, I would say, because at this point, there are objective possibilities and assumptions that these pensions are being financed. I particularly point out that achieving the goal we want to achieve by this equal wage law and for equal internship and for equal pensions, not only is it an impossible mission. These days, we are told from the government that this cannot be done. This law will testify that it is possible to do so. And that neither in any way the basic intensities of pension reform nor the basic institutes established within the '90 pension system are disrupted. and in 2002, when a new pension system was established. So it's possible both. When we set out to achieve this goal, we gave ourselves several assignments. First, we must not disrupt the consistency of the pension system. We can't break him. He must preserve his key parameters. Otherwise, it would be a catastrophic return to a state that had to be dealt with in a different way and normically and institutionally in any other way. Another requirement we had that we had to create a system that would correspond, which would be consistent with all the implementation factors. This means that it must be legally harmonised, that it must be financially sustainable and that it must be politically acceptable. And finally, to be in agreement with the expectations of the guarantee. The model is very simple. It consists of this solution. In addition to the personal pension that pensioners would receive and now receive under the Pension Insurance Act, each of these new pensioners means from 1.1.'99. to the end of those who will receive a pension from the second pillar, the pension receives, in addition to that personal pension, the second part of the pension that we have called a state pension. This state pension is set up according to this, according to special law. However, this special law does not say that there is something less valuable than the first one, since both pensions and personal and state pensions become an integral part of the pension incomes of each pensioner. Users are like I said all those who retired from 1.1.99. So, finally, with those new pensioners of two or three pillars. That's about 336 grand this year. Every year you can expect an increase of about 35, 40,000 of these pensioners. So they're going to grow to one minute and then they're going to start falling gradually. The state pension would have been realised since 1.7.2007. Our goal was to go back to 1.1 this year. We wanted to, we offered, the law was in the process. Unfortunately, he wasn't accepted. And now it's his turn. But he could've helped the government, and we offered him to take over. The way of determining retirement, this is what I would say is a great solution that no one has killed and that solves all those dilemmas about justice, solidarity, etc. So we took one solid point. It's a budget base. And of that budget base, 30% of that base would be, therefore, that 30% is the basis for a state pension. She would have been corrected with two sizes. First, with the factor of years of retirement so that those who were least damaged in '99. the years had a factor of 0.25 and those that went in 2009 when the full internship was taken, they would have factor 1. In order to be even more just within that category, we would add another factor of correction to years of internships and it would be 0.025% for each year of retirement time achieved in Croatia. What else is important? It's important that the state pension has the character of pension income. So she's an integral part of the pension income. She's legally, fully arranged. That's not an addendum. It, together with personal pensions and other incomes, consists of pension incomes determined by pension insurance regulations. Let's move on. Each year, the government would coordinate the budget base by providing a budgetary basis. It would immediately be re-revalorized to say the height of the state pension on January 1st of every year. We skipped one slide. So we said that retirement this time for new pensioners would mean an increase in pensions from 100 to 1,000 kuna. So factor 1 thousand kuna average increase. By making calculations and calculations, it has been shown that this would not be exactly in June, but almost entirely equalise the retirement of old and new pensioners. It's a source of funding. These days I hear even the representatives of the pensioners, the Retired Parties question something that seemed to me to be the most valuable element of this law. And that's that pension is paid out of the budget. It's the only safety. Every story about it, we're going to start funds, some new funds, so if anything comes out of those funds, then it's going to split up a little bit, and then it's going to be given to new pensioners, etc., it's all to keep it simple on the willow, and it's an unserious job. If we want to solve the problem permanently, we need to get that money from the State budget and there are opportunities because the entire cost of this project is about a billion and 400 million at the annual level. He'd grow up for the next two years, then he'd fall. And I want to say that a billion and 400 million kuna is 0.7% of Croatia's gross social product. It is, if it was 250 billion in last year, so 0.7% of the social product would mean that we have increased the share of pension expenditure from that 11.6 to 12.3 that is still less than 12.6% as much as in the European Union. Here's the question: is there any political will to solve this problem or not? And nothing else because we didn't even get any argument from the government why this couldn't be accepted? The competent institution would be the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. He would have betrayed the solutions. Those solutions can be complained about. We'd do calculations and so on. And it's a model that has its advantages because it respects the principle of solidarity. It means that poor pensioners would get something more. He's transparent. He is financially adjustable and the cost can be controlled in the future. I don't see any, I haven't heard the reason why it wouldn't be acceptable. If our ideal of a fair pension is for all of us and I think we are all interested in it, I am convinced that this law can be achieved to the extent that fair wages can be made to everyone, fair social benefits to everyone and so on. It will never be fair, but at least fairer than we have at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83987	Thank you very much, colleague. My colleagues and colleagues, I declare a break until 3:00. I wish you good luck!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83988	We're continuing the session. Legislative, Labour, Social Policy and Health Committees? I'm opening a debate. For the club of representatives of HSU, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Kozina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83989	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs allow me to get involved in the debate a little bit. First of all, I would like to answer Mr. Vidovic, but he is not here. But for the record, we from the Croatian Retirement Party haven't defined ourselves for any further consideration before this, and I don't know who was saying that to get those funds out of the funds, I don't know. That's not clear to me. We didn't even discuss it. The second was also the law presented by the HSS. That's where Mr. Sabati said we were against it. That's not true, it doesn't stand, the stable was restrained, I was up for that law. It's for the sake of knowledge and diversity. You should know that and you should be telling the truth. So the Croatian Party of Retired Party has not declared from where the funds for this law came from. Secondly, by considering this Bill on State Pensions, because it has such a title, we must remember the beginning of a pension from the formation of a brotherly community to the Law on settled pensions. Legally arranged pensions without distinction to changes in the system, authorities were literally respected. So every change of government, from Austria-Hungarian, Yugoslavia, NDH, again Yugoslavia and to this country, has always been respected. From the statutes of the brotherly communities and their regulations to legally regulated in the States. So until the end, pension laws were respected, and they were paid as they were standardized. It was the first time that happened in '93. the year by the Regulation concerning the limitation of the funds for the payment of pension income. And if that were wrong, it was proven that the Constitutional Court ruled in 1998 and said it was wrong. However, the Constitutional Court's decision began to interpret how it was appropriate and how anyone wanted it, without the difference the government had been referring to. However, the Constitutional Court's decision could not be eliminated until the end, and then some certain percentages, something like this, started to be shy. Meanwhile, every government has also freed itself from contributions to pension insurance. That's how it was released 7 and a half billion that later confessed you paid that 100 kuna and 6% there. What happened later is known. We'll talk about it a little later. Look, the coalition government at the head of the SDP also paid back part of the debt. They returned from 0.5 to 20%, which did not correspond to the Constitutional Court's decision. The pension fund or pension fund's professional services have repeatedly proposed that it be between 0.5 and 37%. However, between 0.5 and 20 were given, and these 17% were abolished by those pensioners who retired in '93. and before. They were all cut off. Well, it doesn't feel that much today, because all these masses are gone. But for the sake of truth, we need to know how it happened. Although it was known at the time that the pension reform was also being prepared, it means pension reform and the new Pension Insurance Act. The law began to apply since 1999. What did the law predict? The law provides for three pillars. First mandatory or generational solidarity. The second column shall be compulsory capitalised savings. And a third pillar of voluntary savings. Now watch what happened? All these pensioners who have been retired since '99. So they'll all be retired by 2009 and they're all damaged by the second pillar. The first pillar was calculated by them and they received the pension, but is calculated on the basis of a new law which can only be applied since 2011 when the second pillar is applied and the second pillar is made available. So that's what's important what needs to be arranged. And the third pillar, I don't know. In that third column, as many insurance companies as there are. That the pension reform is exceeded and that it goes to the benefit of the pensioners is. Because pensioners are the most unfortunate of these new laws, as well as the Law of Conversion. So all of this went to the back of the pensioners as old as these new ones, especially these new ones, are damaged. Why am I saying that? I'm saying it because look, we keep saying it's big, it's too small a proportion of employees and pensioners. Now it's 1:1,4, and before that, it's said 1:3. But nobody here says that there were more funds then, that it was the Workers' Fund, that it was the Agricultural Fund, that it was a fund of independent craftsmen, caterers and auto carriers and that it was military pensions. So four pensions, that's all united together now. And of course that relationship is much smaller now. Because we know that we have somewhere around 400,000 or 300,000 I don't know how many unemployed who don't invest in that Peace Fund, normally. The problem of these new pensioners here you can see it now. International organisations have now begun to intervene. They say that the great poverty threshold is with us, and in particular low pensions where people have pensions have pensions, and they can't practically live out of these pensions. That there's a will for it has been shown. Here was the thematic session of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and Health where it was presented and where it was said. There's been a lot said and by others, I wouldn't repeat it now, it'll probably come to this Assembly, if we could make that clear. As far as the law itself is concerned, I agree with, and we at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Retirement agree with this proposal but we have certain objections to that. And we agree with every proposal that goes in favor of the pensioner, for every proposal. And for every proposal I will raise a hand that will be consistent with the norms as it should be. I've studied this law very carefully, I've tried to sort things out and so I've calculated something. I've consulted some members there, but they haven't answered anything, so I'm speaking for the way I came to that and how I was talking here. It is the Law on Equalisation of Pension Retirement or State Pensions. This Article 2 lists who are concerned and Article 3 says that the basis for calculating state pensions would be set at 30% of the budget base for the calendar year in which the pension of the Pension Insurance Act is granted. So this budget base this year is 3 thousand 326 kuna and 30% of that is 997 kuna. In accordance with Article 3(4), it shall be multiplied by years as it goes, and a working internship shall also be obtained. I've tried to calculate the lowest pension here, and that's where the highest pension is spoken and the highest pensioner. The lowest pension we have around 500 kuna, we have a lot of pensioners who receive up to 500 kuna. There's about 40 or something. And we also have users who receive the highest pension. Now this proposal makes a difference for me. There are differences in the lowest pensions and the highest pensions. Here's roughly, the lowest pension means with 15 years of internship according to this proposal, according to the budget base, that would be 15 years from now when multiplied by this factor, 738 kuna and 30 limes and plus this addition to internship 289,93. While old pensions are the lowest of 500 kuna, I've already said it in advance. And the biggest pension now is 7000 715 and this proposal you're making would be 8000 488, but that only applies to those pensioners who were retired after 99 and later. So this law is making a difference again, which is wrong, and I think it's wrong, and we should make it right. Here we propose yes, we will support the bill's proposal, but with him going to another reading and getting these injustices corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83990	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83991	A respected colleague says there is a political will and that the thematic session of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health has shown this. On the contrary. That's not true. On the contrary, the session showed that there is no political will where Mrs Jasna Babic said then on behalf of the government, Vera Babic, saying on behalf of the government then that the government cannot support it and that she has no means or way to equalise pensions of old and new pensioners. This means that for pensioners is not showing political will, for them it is political trouble to have such a government that will not and does not know how to equalise pensions of old and new pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83992	Thank you. Who's up, who's up, who's up, who's up, who's up, who's up, who's up, who's up, who's up, Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83993	My colleague was injured by the Rules of Procedure in 209 and 203 because he was actually correcting the predecessor in such a way that he made a completely incorrect claim, so he claimed quite incorrectly. First, the colleague was not on the committee at all, the committee in question, which was spoken of by a fellow representative, and it was not true that what you said here was heard, but that there was a very open discussion and there was an opportunity and open opportunity to find a solution in the sense in which a colleague spoke in front of the Retirement Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83994	IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83995	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I am to break this controversy, but so am I, like Mr. Stazic, who I was not at that committee session, I read in the paper on Wednesday, February 14, 2007. Vera Babic "Nothing of equalising old and new pensioners. The full equalisation of the pension of old and new pensioners is not possible because the entire pension system would collapse, they said from yesterday's thematic session of the Committee on Labour, Social Care and Health. State Secretary for Labour Vera Babić and Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, Mile Rukavina." That's February 14th. That was yesterday on the Morning List. ... Now, what is proposed is a commendable measure, such as a valuable measure and Christmas and compensation, as well as this Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision of 12 May 98, but this legislative proposal by Mr Vidovic is also fair. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What needs to be done, what is the obligation of all of us, to try to find a modus and how to reconcile old and new pensioners. Now the question is, is that possible? I say it is. How? To make it clear in this country, to allow people to work, to let them work. How do you plan to pay off? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Only money coming into the budget. We talked about the textile industry here seven days ago. In 2001 or 2000, there were 44 thousand employees, now around 35,000 employees with a tendency to probably further decrease. So the industry, say, there in 2000, and some of them were exporting $5.5 billion, now it's exporting less than 5 billion. Import-export 1:2. I keep saying that it can't go on forever and that in this country the biggest fool seems to be the one who does. We need to understand that without jobs, that without industry we can't have a good time. Just before it was said and some pension payments were mentioned. Up to 500 kuna in Croatia is receiving 61 thousand 493 pensioners. From 500 to 1,000 kuna, they're 116 thousand 968. From a thousand to a thousand 500 kuna 156 thousand 293. From a thousand 500 to 2,000 kunas of them 2 hundred 095 thousand and 016. In total, under the average pension, the pension in Croatia receives 629 thousand 770,000 Croatian citizens. From two thousand to three thousand kuna, the pension receives 272,000 kuna. From three thousand to four thousand, 97 thousand kuna. From four thousand to five thousand, 27 thousand kuna. Five thousand to six thousand nine thousand 137. From frequent to seven thousand kuna 21 thousand 378. From seven to eight thousand kunas of them 320. It's a million 038 thousand 806. Of which, the age pension receives 570 thousand and 95, disabled 235 thousand 987, family 232 thousand 724. It is certainly so good to talk today, let's call it that, about this social pension, but in Croatia we need to open a debate on jobs and what life means. It's easy to share clearly when there is. But let's look at the state of the pension system now. In Croatia we have a million 498 thousand 877 thousand insurance companies, at the end of 2005, come on plus a minus a thousand, two today. Compared to a million 80,000 571 pensioners. Of that number of a million 498 thousand 877 insurance companies, 200 thousand of us who are on a budget salary, plus 40,000 people who work in insolvency companies don't pay pension, health, etc. So it turns out that somewhere in a million and 250 thousand we call it so productive jobs, but from that you need to refuse the upgrade in INA, HRT, etc. So somewhere around a million jobs have to support us 200 thousand people in the upgrade, without which there are no lives without people working in health care, education, police, judiciary, military, plus a thousand 80,000 pensioners, plus 300,000 unemployed, plus a complete social, provide understandable building of schools, roads, hospitals, and prisons that are now being sought again, etc. And that's the Croatian reality. And this is best seen through this Croatian Pension Insurance Institute where contributions reach an incomplete 60% of the needs of this mass of pensioners or of 27 billion and 300 million kuna in 2005, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office provides 15 billion and 700 million kuna through contributions. So 12 billion kunas are missing. The average pension was 41.32% for 2005, even smaller for 2006 and it was achieved by work, in full-time means 40 years of work by men, women 35, etc., is 62.37%. It's cca. 2 thousand 500 kuna, with the problem of new pensioners, we have to admit it's acute. And now I could string up numbers forever. In order not to disappoint Mr Kovacevic, he was with me seven days ago... Fumic, mentioned the problem of NOB fighters as well as JNA officers, is clearly talking about those who did not compromise during the war. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the point is, with all the injustice that we are in the '90s. Had a million 968 thousand 737 insurance and 655 thousand 788 pensioners, and in 2005, we have this ratio of one million and 500 thousand to one million and 80 thousand. And that's the point. It means higher pensions. Just from more jobs. Bigger means economic growth. According to the logic that the best social policy is a full-employment policy, i.e. that the best pension policy is a policy of such employment. Full-time means 40 years of men, women, etc., in Croatia the average pension is 62.37%, for 2005, compared to the average salary. How much is it, for example? in Germany? 63%. So 0.63% higher. With that difference, it is likely that 63% in one Germany can live decently in contrast to those two or two and a half thousand kunas in Croatia. In Austria, however, with a full-time working life, the average pension is 80%, in Belgium 67, in the Czech Republic 79, in Denmark 71, in developed Finland, which is said to be one of the world's most social states to be 63% as well as in Germany, only 0.63% more than in Croatia, in France 80%, in Hungary 1025, in Italy 89%, Luxembourg 98%, the Netherlands 92, Slovenia 82%, Sweden 71%, etc. So I'm gonna say it one more time. The peace system will at the very least agree with me holding jobs. And so many of those counties that have higher employment, which have a higher average income or salary, are certainly ahead of it in some way. To end what do you say? The relationship of new, old pensioners. In 2004, we had 280 thousand new pensioners, 742 thousand old. In 2005, we have 319 thousand new pensioners, 709 thousand old. So, the number of old declines, clear people are leaving, new pensioners are coming. In 2006, we already have a ratio of 352,000 to 689 thousand. Or what is far more interesting, these are pension amounts, in the new ones or the old ones. The difference between the new and the old pensioners in 2004 was 430 kuna, and this seemed to be so, that the old pensioner received a thousand 918 kuna, a new thousand 488 kuna, in 2005 the difference increased from 430 kuna to 495 kuna, the old man got an average of two thousand and one kuna, a new thousand 506 kuna, and in 2006 the difference jumped again by almost 40 kuna in favour of the old pensioners, climbed to 531 kuna or an old pensioner had an average pension of 2093.79 lipa and a new 1562.64 lipe. These are actually the most explicit indicators that we're talking about today, and which, of course, should there be one, I would say moral honesty, but certainly material possibilities, and it should be, so what needs to be corrected? Finally, let's all try to work on attracting investment, investment. Let's even up those old, new pensioners. Let's just say for this law we passed last Friday, which is about implementing decisions of the Constitutional Court on family pensions, and these are 43,000 people in the Republic of Croatia, to find an additional billion and 400 million kuna. And for the equalization of the old and the new, it would take at least 2 billion kuna. I think we should do it without selling out the public system. There is a clear way that when a public system is sold, that resistance calms down. How? By key, let's say I assign 25% of the shares of INA to the citizens. They'll earn something from it in the meantime, but still, those stocks can't all afford each other, and all the new pensioners would have to get even with the old one. So this law is good. I'd be hypocritical if I didn't say that a good solution was Christmas Eve. That a good solution was this, what will happen through the form of family pensions and the provision of that billion kuna 400 million for 43,000 such families. Actually, 43,000 781. It is good that debt returns or compensations as well as those 100 kuna plus 6 percent went into retirement. We've supported all of this so far. I believe we will also support this proposal presented today by Mr Vidovic. In one word, such an initiative was welcome to discuss the pension system in the Republic of Croatia. Clearly, the question is, what are we going to sell in due course to sow those billions of 400, two, or I don't know how many billions of kunas in order to sort of fail? I listen in the meantime that we will sell both Croatian roads and Croatian waters and HEP and INA and HT. That the state in these systems will keep only 25+ one share. Yesterday it was discussed the Law on the Port of Ploche where the World Bank financed it with 58 million euros or dollars but provided it privatised one part of the system. Well, I'd just say be careful with that. Let's not do that, let's not just run out. Debt must return once more, but not by selling family silver but by new jobs. It is not easy, but I argue that it is possible and that it is the only rational and justified policy, with that finding that the best social policy is a full-time employment policy as well as the best pension policy possible for full-time employment. This should be supported or sent to another reading, and I believe that the government will soon come before us with its proposal to coordinate pensions between the old and new pensioners and that Mrs Vera Babic does not reflect the mood of the majority in this House or in the ranks of the ruling party. In one word, the historical injustice that was done to these people after 1999 and which seems to be corrected to this day.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83996	Thank you. It's an HSS rep club. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go. And for the correction? ... [[Intruder: I've applied for a correction.]] Please, I haven't noticed, I've been a little before, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. I'm just having a little fun here, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83997	Thank you, Mr. President. As accurate as the ratio between German pensions and German salaries is because few Germans receive Croatian pensions is so absolutely incorrect the ratio between Croatian salaries and Croatian pensions. As long as we have no record of how many Croats receive 300 kuna pensions and 1000 EUR of German pensions until then that ratio will not be correct. In Germany it is done, unfortunately with us it is an unknown. Secondly, how long will the press conference be advertised? I would have prayed nicely for this every day of my colleague's commercial, yesterday's Globus, today's morning that looks like corruption "I'm telling you" so I'm asking that it be banned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83998	Representatives can quote newspapers, quote newspapers. It's... We can't stop Reuters. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u83999	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, so as we heard in the explanation before us is the Proposal for a Law on Equalization of Pensions and this Proposal for a Law in First Reading, therefore not in an emergency procedure as someone before me said but in a regular procedure, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party absolutely supports. Why do we support this bill? We support him for the reason in which we look at the continuation of the efforts that we have shown in the last year when, by amending the two laws, we actually wanted to remove the injustice that has gone through the reform of the pension system. Unfortunately, then, the parliamentary majority rejected amendments and additions to one law and another, insisting on an injustice resulting from the speedy reform of the pension system. However, the fact is that, in the meantime, there has been some progress in considering the Government of the Republic of Croatia because, in the opinion of our two draft laws by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, proposing that the Croatian Parliament reject one and another proposal, it was said that there is no difference between the new and the old pensioners, and if there is any difference in individual cases. That's what it said in the opinion that we got on our bill. Today, in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which also suggests that the proposal for a law on equalisation of pension incomes is denied in the Croatian Parliament but at least we have a written recognition that there is a difference between new and old pensioners. So the situation repeats itself. We had a similar situation with old pensioners when it was denied for years that there was a debt to the pensioners then after 10 years, we were given the first recognition that this debt existed. Now it took us a little short time for the government to admit that there's a difference between old and new pensioners. As it was disputed before me here who was on the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy which held the thematic session on the status of new pensioners, I was on that committee. And on Mrs Babic's board, she did say what they announced about the means of communication, saying there was no equalising new pensioners with old pensioners' incomes. Also, the president of HSU, Mr Jordan, said that the pensioners did not support the draft law that would burden the state budget to pay these differences, but insisted that this difference or equalisation of pensioners should be carried out through a fund that would achieve certain funds and remove these differences. So there are facts here today. And the fact is that 350,000 pensioners went into retirement and that these 350 pensioners got less pensions than their colleagues got for, with the same salary and for the same job experience, but they retired until 31.12.1998. Those who left in 1.1.1999 were already accounted for in a different way. Today, we have a clear and undisputed record that today the difference in these pensions is 30% or 500th and some kuna. Explaining its proposal that the Croatian Parliament rejects the SDP counterpart's proposal, the government believes it has found a solution and explains that they have made a decision on the examination of this situation and that a working group has been formed to propose a legal solution. For us at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, this is not the solution. Because these 350 pensioners who today have 500 lower pensions than their colleagues for the same internship and at the same salary, when their average pension is 29% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, when we know that this year next year, as we heard from the proposings under these same conditions, we consider that this solution, consisting of a decision-making and appointment of a working group, is unsatisfactory and at this point we say that there is no such solution. Since there is no solution to the government, of course, that and to welcome any other solution, with all possible shortcomings that will arise. But it is one fact that this bill removes the injustices made in reforming the pension system from colleagues from the SDP club, but also improves the material position of 350 thousand pensioners. And that's why this bill absolutely needs to be supported. Both the Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy meeting and the Croatian Assembly are likely to see disputes and different views on the election of funding. Here we have a proposal to finance from the state budget and we really don't have anything against it. Because by political will, a certain category of pensioners has been cut off. This category of pensioners is not provided for in the second pillar, so it was not left at will but they simply could not on the second pillar and during that transitional period absolutely should be employed and the resources of those countries that did so. I personally believe, and so do we at the Croatian Peasant Party club think that pensions should be financed from pension insurance contributions paid by insurance companies. We're always talking about this phenomenon, but we'll never talk about it until it's removed. Fellow MPs, I repeat, according to the FINA report today, are in a 12 billion kuna blockade for unpaid contributions. Most of it applies to pension insurance. So the employers didn't pay 12 billion kuna contributions to the damage, to the benefit of the pensioners, not they would get out of the state budget, to the harm of the state budget. I would like to remind you that according to the State's Attorney's report, 20 billion kuna has been reported in the bankruptcy of outstanding claims based on unpaid taxes and contributions. Pension insurance contributions have the highest share. So 32 billion kuna. That's what happened. Is there still opportunities and are there places where it is possible to get funds in pension funds to cover paid pensions? Yes, there are. The fact that contributions are not paid today is widely known. The very fact of these 12 billion as an example of guidance, and I'm going to point out again, the example of the Vrpolje vegetable and fruit plant that is state-owned. No taxes and contributions have been paid to workers since October 2004. A state-owned company. A state-owned company, if it thus sets an example for employers, is a bad example and cannot do business. The further problem is, and this is a common familiar thing, for all of us known except for the Republic Inspectorate, which is that it is common for employees to pay their salaries in two ways today. One legal, through a current account to which taxes and contributions are paid. It's the lowest one you don't pay taxes on. The rest is paid under the table. What have we done, what have the bodies and institutions of the Croatian state done to put an end to it? The worker is temporarily satisfied that he has received the money and can live in fear that if he talks about getting fired. But tomorrow we will have pensioners who will have a very low pension. Did we introduce a financial discipline to remove irregularities, deviations, financial indiscipline behind it, a series of savings consequences? We didn't. Well, we can't because the eclectic impotence of the state in these sectors is to shift the overall burden of the pension system to just pensioners who went into retirement after 31.12.1998. That's inadmissible. And in this sense we are looking at this bill and in this sense we absolutely support this bill. We suggest to the colleagues of the SDP that until the second reading consider and the possibility of pension compensation for those who have already received a pension since 1.1.99, I have not noticed that the question of compensation for what has not been paid to them during this time, because we have this debt of new pensioners. With this bill, therefore, we are solving pensioners who will be retired in the future, however, the debt remains for pensioners who have received pensions so far. Furthermore, what we also welcome, and this is what this unique law meant by that category of pensioners who are the poorest and here we had a proposal for a National Pensions Act on two occasions, but by the will of the parliamentary majority these proposed laws were rejected, but here we now again have a bill that really thinks about those who receive a pension of up to 500 kuna per month. We heard it's about 70,000 people. Well now, pensioners who have retired on the basis of agricultural insurance, who are excluded by the will of the parliamentary majority from debt repayment rights and by law do not have the right to repay their debt, which are squeezed out of the ability of the parliamentary majority to receive national pensions as well as all those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have 65 years of life and do not have any income because they are no longer medically capable or working and are unable to do so. Some of them worked, but they were not lucky to turn 15 and did not get the conditions for, the minimum conditions for retirement are precisely this proposal of the law to think of them, and they are provided with some kind of social security. I stress the Republic of Croatia in its Constitution says it is a social state, so the social state must take care of its social categories, poverty is the most affected precisely by old people and people who are healthy and working incompetent. I think we at the Croatian Peasant Party club hope that this bill will be devoid of deciding on this bill, that we will deprive ourselves of all political disciplines, that we will not think of it in a political way but rather of thinking about it, voting on it, about all those people who, I am not talking with any special feelings, but if we look at where the containers are gathering, then we will see those old people digging through the containers, and in the markets under the bench, collect salad leaves. If you don't want to watch it, and I'm sure none of us would, then we all support the SDP club bill together, and you have our support at the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84000	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84001	Here I am correcting an incorrect quote. In fact, it is an incorrect assumption that this majority refused to equalise pensions. Just to remind you, Lalić, that in four years of your authority that you have reduced pensions, you have reduced the wages from which pension contributions are granted, you have not paid back your debt to the pensioners, but I am glad that you have only seen the problem in pre-election time. This government takes care of pensioners and the growth of pensions is not small. 25% compared to 2003, which is more than total growth, budget expenditure is 21%. Even new pensioners will not remain unsettled and a new model and a new legal framework for better status of new pensioners is being developed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84002	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84003	Infringement of Article 209 because it was corrected by accuracy, this shows that the pension in 31.12.99 was 39% of the average salary of the Republic of Croatia and in 31.12.2003 it was 44.71%. You guys should know math, so you can see it's an increase!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84004	Unfortunately, you did not correct the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you corrected the correction of the incorrect assumption. You haven't called...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84005	Inaccurate quote, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84006	But you can't correct through a breach of the Rules of Procedure an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84007	Inaccurately, my colleague corrected my exact quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84008	That's your point of view. But I can't arbitration. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84009	My colleague Maria, I know you know it's true, so it's my pleasure. ... A lie is a sin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84010	Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84011	Thank you very much. Let me take a brief look at this part of the debate that has been held so far on behalf of the clubs. First, let me thank my colleagues and colleagues who support this law by recognising its actual meaning and intention to solve one of the huge burning problems that our pensioners face. I am pleased, although I wouldn't mind if there were any improvements and suggestions in this sense, which are not really in the debates that indicate the existence of a more serious telegraph or error in the model and in the very proposal of the law. What he warned his distinguished colleague, a representative of the retirement party, might seem like a mistake. I have to say it's not a mistake. She's aware of the intention. His good calculation, a colleague's good calculation that shows that those with the lowest pensions will therefore, with 500 kuna pensions get something more when it's percentage view than those with the highest pensions is correct. That calculation is accurate and correct. But it was done on purpose. It's not about creating a new injustice. It is a conscious intention to help with solidarity in this way that group of our fellow citizens who have the lowest incomes. These fellow citizens must be helped not only through this law. If you don't help through it, through the welfare system. So it's not that big a difference. Why would you get more with the lowest? Well, they're going to get it because they already have that supplement that goes to the lowest pension, so it's actually going to be this new supplement, and that's why it turns out more than it would be if you strictly respected a formula that would be worth everything equally. They're the only ones who can do better. Secondly, I'm surprised a colleague here mentions something that isn't evidenceable. In the discussion, for example, that there, the professional service about two thousandths and some year, in 2000 when we were doing the debt return proposal, calculated that 37% should increase pensions, so that as someone took it down to 20%. That's just not true. I have to tell you because I personally participated in, that as a minister, I think I took office on January 29, 2000, and already on February 3rd, the first actually to come were pensioners, representatives of pensioners' associations. And that we promised to find a solution to the debt back in that year, in the first half of that year. And that's what really happened. Now. Was that a good solution? Couldn't that have been better? We may well have found a solution that would satisfy a group more than a friend. I can tell you what the disadvantages of that solution are. For example, the fact that we were paying back debt as an increased pension is certainly not fair to the people who died. Who didn't have time to get that pension. It's not fair to them. It's not fair to them. That's what we were aware of right away. But you know, when it was calculated how best, how the least mistakes were made, we were determined for that model. Orders now and now. The remarks that have also been heard about the fact that it is not said anywhere that this government will not or will not be able to correct because it would be a return, but denied. The colleagues showed, it was really said the other day at the Committee meeting. It's publicly repeated several times. I'd like the government to be corrected in that sense, so to say that it's possible to even up, it's possible to even up the old, new pensioners. If it's done, we don't mind. If you make any better suggestions than this, we don't mind. There are also, mentioned historical injustices. There's something that's unquestionable. Any change in any system, within the social policy system, every change at least partially favors someone and someone less. Unfortunately, in the pension system, frequent changes in formulas, legislative proposals, supplements, etc. have greatly disrupted the consistency of the system. That's why it was so important in this law not to touch the system. Don't touch the system. Let him go so it doesn't happen. It's one of the few to say so of legal projects that has a sequence in three governments. It started that Matesha government in the '90s, it continued in Racan's government, and now this same model is working now. That's good, that's not bad. It means you don't go things always... They don't go like the world starts with us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's respect reality. The remark that counterpart Lalic mentioned is fundamentally correct. And a proposal to try to see how to make damages since '99. These pensioners over here. She's fundamentally accurate. These people are just because they had smaller incomes and smaller and smaller ones are really in a worse position than those who, if this law is passed tomorrow, will retire and those who went before them. But legally, there is no debt to them. There's no legal debt. You couldn't talk about debt. He is fundamentally, he is substantial because these people have received less, but in a legal sense it could not be a debt. You should see how to damage them in some other way and through other forms. And another question that seems to me to be unfairly trying to put up with this law. It's that not all the problems can be solved, all the injustices solved by this law. We have a whole series of projects at our disposal that can correct individual injustices. Hello to all the students of classical high school, if I understand correctly who followed the part of our session. For example, the Social Pensions Act, the Social Pensions Act, and this is in some way the answer of an additional colleague from the Croatian Pensions Party, should allow all older people from 66 years of age to get a pension, simply because they do not have a job capacity. There are 120 thousand people in Croatia who do not have a job capacity, and 58 thousand according to our calculations are those who do not have any property to live on. They did not get the right to retire, so they do not have the conditions but they can be given a certain income, a certain social category fee. She's not, there's no starting point in the pension system and she's right, but she's right to establish the Constitution of this country that we need to be solid with those who don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84012	Thank you. HNS representative club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84013	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I think this whole discussion and the topic we're dealing with not for the first time in this House is actually showing that the pensioners have actually paid one of the biggest taxes in the creation of this country in the war, in privatisation and are paying it today. The first pension reform, which was not actually a reform, was a pension cut by the then Minister of Finance or the Government and, by the way, the Minister of Finance of that era, Mr. Škegro once said loudly and loudly on Croatian television: "They do not think that the pensioners will be able to live from the pensions that the Croatian state gives them. We should take care of it ourselves." That sounded like a cartoon of speech at that point, however it turned out to be true. The pensioners were robbed in that first cutting that ten years ago no one, eight years old, wanted to publicly admit that the Constitutional Court would finally make such a decision and say, "Yes, it is true. People were deprived of something that belonged to them, and it should be returned to them. It is now coming back." The government of Ivo Sanader passed the law by which it returned. Now the question where does it come from? Well, he's coming back from what used to belong to those pensioners. He's coming back from selling the company in a government portfolio. Companies that were or were supposed to be in the Pension Fund. These companies are sold nicely and the pensioners get their debt back. The question now is, who's paying the pensioners back the debt? So they pay themselves back. Of course, they're paying off their debt and they're doing it very successfully and it's going happily. There's been a new injustice since 1999. It doesn't look that bad first. The government promises, publicly states that these new pensioners since 1999 who are moving will continue to move at the level of their current or then pensions as they were. But it turns out that's not the case. That avalanche is getting stronger and stronger so that according to projections that are quite real, I don't know that anyone has tried to disprove them. In 2009, when the law fully enters into force, so when the entire pension rate will be calculated on the basis of the pension average salary of 4 thousand kuna, 4 and something like today's average salary would result in a pension of less than 1000 kuna. What does that really mean? The average salary of 4000 kuna in 36 years is the average internship that people make to retire is 345 thousand kuna in the pension fund. The average use of a pension is 16 years. So people live 16 years on average in retirement. That average pensioner who had four thousand kunas will have, say, 1000 kuna pensions. In those 16 years, he will be paid about 192 thousand. He paid 345 grand. 153,000's gone somewhere again. They're gone. He didn't get them the one who paid. So by 2009, I guess we'll figure out something and we'll do something, we'll get the Constitutional Court to decide whether or not this House makes a decision or the next Parliament or government that these people are also being wronged, and by that year, that injustice will be extended to the same number of people that it includes, and this first one. And apparently the same amount of money. So when we establish this, then we will conduct a bile debate in Parliament and the current government will pass the Law on correcting injustice because it will be a real injustice that people in the European Community will enter in 2009 to live with 150 EUR pensions at these European prices it is actually inexplicable. Then we'll go pay those people back. But until then, as things stand, and as they move, we will sell everything alive and inanimately. What are we going to sell in 2009? There won't be a Pliva, there won't be an INA. What else will we sell to make those people's debts better? Obviously, it's not good to wait for 2009. Something needs to be done today. Regardless of the government's claim that these pensions can't be evened out, that it's destroying the system, the end of the world, here's this model that shows that it's not the end of the world. There are probably more models that could come up with similar, similar results. Let's not, let's not throw away this recipe, this model just because it comes from the wrong side of this Assembly. Let's improve it, let's let it go to another reading. Let's make suggestions, let's make suggestions, but let's do something today. Let's not wait for 2009 to admit that in 1999 we made a terrible injustice and then "the hill of the valley" to raise money in all corners to compensate people for this injustice. Because injustice definitely is. Simple numbers show that. The minimum pension achieved under the pre-application rules was for September 2006. 2085 kuna. Under the new rule of 1192 kuna. Maximum, these high pensions. Po, you're counting according to the previous rule of 5 thousand 700 kuna. You're counting on the new regulations of 5 grand 242 kuna. The injustice obviously happened. We see her today. Let's not close our eyes, let's correct the injustice today. It's cheaper than fixing it in four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84014	Thank you. 16 hours and two minutes, it's time to report a ten-minute hearing. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84015	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The Croatian party's rights club supports SDP's proposal so that it is normally necessary to remove, correct the injustice that has been done to new pensioners in relation to the old pensioners and I think it would be far more appropriate that today the government has already come out and with its proposal so that we can discuss two proposals to see which solutions are better. So at this point, we only have one proposal that still speaks about how and how this injustice that was done could be corrected means so-called. reforming the pension system. And reform as such should contain something positive. So obviously we're under reform putting something that's not very positive. Because we got the situation that the new pensioners are in a far more difficult position. And the very fact that it was, for example, the difference was 531 kuna in 2006 enough to talk about it. Normally, even when taken as a whole, let's say that the average pension of old pensioners means that they were retired before 1.1.99. the year was about 2 thousand and 013, i.e. 2 thousand 014 kuna. While the new pensioners were about 562 kunas, she speaks enough about the position of these old pensioners. So these old pensioners who are privileged to, say, these new pensioners and there's a difference of 531 kuna. Now let's take how much the average cost of a four-member family so we can easily get to the situation that the general position... The number of pensioners in Croatia is not satisfactory. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we know that. We know the ratio of the number of pensioners to the number of insurance companies. Come on, he's been able to stabilize here for the last few years, but it's not a stabilization positive but a negative stabilisation. So there's ratio 1:1.4. And now that we see the situation in Croatia, there is no opening of new jobs. For example, over the last 3 years, something ranging from 15 to 17 thousand new jobs has been opened, that we do not have an economic strategy for Croatia's development and how we are thinking of paying our pensions in the future. We saw ourselves today from the speech of the predecessors that at this point, let's say the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which we at the Croatian party club call the giant on glass feet, is looking for on the basis of a contribution to the pension of 32 billion kuna. And if pensions were not paid out of the budget, imagine what the situation would be like today in Croatia regarding pension payments. We ourselves know that we are part of the debt that is one piece returned, and it returns from the Constitutional Court's verdict that we are essentially returning it from the money obtained either from PLIVA or from another giant. And what do we do when it's gone? What do we do when it's gone? Then what will be these pensions that are now unfavourable by 2 thousand kuna? Let's talk about it today. So we can't just talk about what we agree on and support your suggestion that we need to correct this injustice. But let's talk a little bit on the longer stages. Shall we agree on a strategy for economic development? Are we going to open new jobs? Are we going to introduce order in financial business into financial discipline? If you have official data to say the annual state budget is lost somewhere between $11 billion and 15 billion, it means those revenues belonging to the state budget if we know that contributions are made to pensions, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office is not regularly paid and employers are trying to pay the lowest contributions in the light of the other part’s payments in other illegal ways. Therefore, all this says is that one full discipline must be introduced, but such a tax policy must be introduced, which will allow us to have as many subjects as possible, means that we have as many employees as possible. And that way, if more subjects, more employees, like Ireland did, then that part of the funds were getting far better. So let's talk about one whole concept. 'Cause what I'm gonna say is, it's not gonna be sold again, it's gonna sell out, it's gonna sell out, it's gonna sell out, it's gonna sell out, it's gonna sell out, it's gonna sell out, it's gonna sell out, it's gonna sell out, it's gonna sell out, it's gonna sell out, it's gonna sell out, it's gonna sell out, it's gonna sell out, Then what? According to this, HEP is already in it, it certainly is. And what will be done then if we don't create and create a strategy of economic development on the foundations that we have at the moment which we can lose, then we haven't solved anything, but we're only dealing with the problems in a palitative way. If we know ourselves what our demographic image is, given the average age of the population in Croatia, that we do not have adequate nor population policy and all of this means creating a pretty black picture for the future. But I say we have time, we have the opportunity to deal with all these problems, and let's not run away from these problems. Because we can't just solve things while there's something to sell, while there's something to privatize if we can't let this pensioner who has, say, who's in a privileged position have, like, 2,000 kuna average pensions he's also got kids who go to school, he might have kids who have finished school, and I can't get a job. So that's the situation and that's the point of all these problems. So it's irresponsible from the government's point of view that she didn't come out with her proposal to discuss both proposals today. And then eventually it's going to happen, namely, it's the worst thing to do during the pre-election year. So he will say, "This will be promised, and this will be done, and now the military service will be abolished, and this will be delayed." And it'll all come on one day. And who's he coming to collect from? Again with Croatian citizens, Croatian taxpayers, again with pensioners. Because now people are normally happy when they get at least something and get something. However, this is relative to the situation within the home budget, and we know that we have both parents and friends living on our own. The main problem is, for example, in those parts where Croatia has always invested little, such as. Slavonia and other parts of Croatia that were unfortunately abandoned. We know ourselves that standard isn't what we should be, and yet we have opportunities, we have these resources, but we don't use them. But, by the way, we're selling out like we sold out to Pliva and everything. And in the end, we'll get into a situation where they won't give us any more credit. They won't give us any credit. We know how much debt he's grown. He's actually taller. He's somewhere around $50 billion if you consider both card debt and interest and everything else. So, and we also know what the social situation is, what the situation of the pensioners is. Let us therefore conduct a full debate not only at the parent board, but at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on the position and current and future pensioners and in general about the perspective of Croatian youth, the Croatian state from the point of view that Croatia can, and if it does not tomorrow, it will be too late. So we support this, but we suggest that we come up with a complete solution and now we look at all the problems and give answers. Because the longer we repay by giving such answers and not having these discussions all the time, the longer we get away with it, and we'll be too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84016	Thank you. PGS club, SBH, MDS, respected representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84017	Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable promoters, ladies and gentlemen. Here's the PGS-s, MDS-s, SBHS will support this law, the law that follows so-called We could say state pensions and hope that it will also be adopted in this Croatian Assembly. I do not think that we here in the Croatian Parliament should be allowed to allow the injustices that are currently in our society to not be corrected for so long. In fact, the issue of debt to pensioners under the famous Constitutional Court decision of 12 May 98 opened up within the pension system a new major crack in injustice and poverty. Provisions in the conditions under which Croatia is retired lead to significant differences in the average amount of pensions between insurance workers who were retired before and those who were retired after 31 December 1999. So here's what we're talking about are new and old pensioners, whose number is now going up to 320 grand, and every day it's increasing. The problem has been seen and foretold long ago, so long ago, but so far, if we exclude the formation of a special commission of government, representatives of retired, political and other organisations that have so far seemed to have held me one or two sessions, nothing has been done to ease it, let alone remove it. I can therefore also mention that the Croatian Peasants' Party has come up with its proposal for a solution to this problem, but unfortunately this law did not have support in the Assembly, here SDP has now come up with its proposal, so we hope that it will have a better destiny. The calculation of the Croatian pensioners said the difference in the average monthly pension of the old and new pensioner so that the co-loquistious distribution of insurance by key from 31 December 1990 reached exactly 531 kuna in September 2006. According to the general assessment, the pension of old computers according to the ten best personal insurance incomes, while the pension of those who, for example, submitted a request to retire to the computer last year on the basis of 28 of the most favourable monthly personal incomes. In three years, 40 top salaries will be taken into account, leading to the scenario that the basis of future pensioners will actually become more and more unfavourable each year. According to the Bureau of Peace statistics, we've already heard that data, but I don't think it's a waste to repeat it. So according to the Peace Institute statistics, the new pensioners had an average of 1.488.00 kuna by 2004, which dropped to 1,347,00, I'm talking about average pension, 1,347,00 kuna. In order to pass, in 2006, we only get an average of 1.250,00 kuna. If the trend of 100,00 kuna continues less in each new year, the average pension for new pensioners will fall in 2009 we heard it today, but I say it is worth repeating. In 2009, it will fall below 1,000 kuna as some kind of stock exchange fee, so the pension will turn into a social category, and actually the pension should be something that every pensioner could live solidly, especially after 40 years of work experience. That's why we got headlines in the paper. "Are you afraid of retirement?" or Retirement as Penalty. So we think it's not good, that this law is going in that direction to prevent it from happening. Normally, as a result of the growing pensions of these new pensioners, the decline in total, the overall average pension that falls year after year. Here's what we know, for example. that the agreement between the Croatian pensioner party was one of their main agreements or conditions of cooperation, the conditions of co-operation with the HDZ to raise the average pension to 50% of the average salary by the end of the term of office. Unfortunately, the trend is just the opposite. In January 2004, the average pension was 1.719.00 kuna or 42.42%. In January 2005, the average pension was 1.800,00 kuna or 41.38%. In January 2006, the average pension was 1848.00 kuna or 40.22% average salary, and here we now came unfortunately to data in January 2007 the average pension was 1,903,00 kuna or 39% of the average salary of the Republic of Croatia. I think this data is very worrying, but here we can still warn of another more negative feature. If we look at average wages in our counties, because there's a big drastic difference there, too. So we have data that the highest average pension in the City of Zagreb is annual, 2,438.00 kuna, and the lowest average pensions in the County are 1,509.00 kuna Koprivnica-križevacka, Virovička-Posavička 1.551.00 kuna, Bjelovarsko-Biogorje 1.551.00 kuna, in Međimurska 1.562.00 kuna. Therefore, as representatives of regional parties, we also suggest that this law may be introduced until the second reading and a certain regional dimension to try to intervene in this sense to equalise or at least bring the average wages in our counties, again it is related to therefore the pensions that our farmers receive, so I think that we should give more perhaps to those who have less. But let me finish, considering a lot of things have been said not to repeat myself. The PGS Club, the IMF, the SBH therefore supports the adoption of this law. We hope, therefore, that we will all gain the courage and strength to support this law, to remove injustice despite the fact that we are now listening to warnings that we have heard before and before similar moves that have yet to take place, that the achievement of such laws will bring down the economic system. We don't think that's going to happen, so it's going to be kind of the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84018	Thank you. For the SDP club, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84019	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the club and I think, on behalf of all of you MPs, you really don't have to prove all the absurdity, insufferableness and injustice towards the pensioners who left after 1999. And even less needs to be proved for those who are getting ready to retire this year or next year. No one today, no one today wanted to disprove the situation. So, the problem has grown to this level that we're all facing him, but what happens after that? That is why I invite representatives in the Croatian Parliament to close party eyes and look at the matter with the responsibility of each representative. Let us forget who proposes this law rather than look the truth into the eyes and position of the pensioners so-called. new ones. It's an absurd situation with many points of view and the most absurd is to imagine what? The government is called on in its opinion that it cannot accept the proposal because the proposal proposes to set state pensions at 30% of the budget base and from the budget. And on the other side, the same government tells us that 40% of the pension fund is now being delivered from the state budget. So, absurd is up to absurd. And now let's look at the situation. Those who retire tomorrow or today, full budget with basic work and full pension fund also with the basis of work so that they have a worse pension. So, the current workers, especially at an older age, fill the pension fund with two basics. Once contributing to the pension fund, for the second time to the budget. And all to make their pension worse than the ones they help. And it's getting much worse and worse. The fact is, and it is not disputed that such a situation creates no ambition or encourages workers to have a good relationship in business or care for the pension fund. It is a situation that has a negative impact on the overall climate in Croatian society, and it cannot last long. The team is more absurd that in the fourth year of its term of office, the government responds to a concrete draft law and solution to the acute problem, an acute, current and problem that cannot be ignored by the founding working group to seek a solution. We simply believe that pensioners cannot wait and seek solutions indefinitely. And it's definitely that the election will be because they can't change, and the task force can work for God to ask how much? To the new guarantee card. There is another fact that this proposal does not require impossible. In order to correct the injustice, we must call it, the unsustainable state would cost the country a little less than 1% of gross domestic product or slightly more than 1% of the budget, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Is it possible to reject such a proposal for 350 or do not know how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are in our country yesterday, they or one part of them called by foreign to say so to the institution, to be located in, at the poverty line. If the media was well informed yesterday, it is about 5 hundred citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are below the poverty zone. And refusing this law means about giving a ticket to a significant percentage of new pensioners to be found within the 500 thousand, to increase that round of 500 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are on the poverty line. That's why I really don't want to speak on behalf of the club and repeat the facts expressed on behalf of the club as a proposing. I just think it's unsustainable when offering a concept that has an immediate solution to refuse. If, during the application of this solution, better or even more purposes can be found, then, of course, we will support each proposal but let us not reject what is clear, unequivocal and proposal, the problem will immediately be solved. I estimate that this proposal will still pass in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84020	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. The first is the respected vice president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84021	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! You know, I actually have to say that I'm a little surprised that we were forced from the opposition to prepare this bill and refer it to the parliamentary procedure. And this is because it is quite clear to everyone, including the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself, that in fact several things happen in the realization of pension reform that are contrary to the highest values of constitutional order on the one hand. On the other hand, social justice. And on the third side of the general human approach, the human relationship between people. Namely, I'd just like to remind you. Freedom, equality, national equality and gender equality. Peace. I now stress this: social justice, respect for human rights, integrity of ownership, conservation of nature and human environment, rule of law, democratic multilateral system are the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues how it is possible to talk about social justice as the highest value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia if, at the same time, at the time of the achievement of one law and one right relating to the social and ageing protection of citizens who have equal number of years of employment, insurance and with equal contributions that he has made to the equal amount of income he receives from fully unequal pensions. There's no question of justice. There's no question of social justice. There is no word on protection in the exercise of constitutional rights. There's no talking about the exercise of human rights, there's no right to the position of man to be equal before the law and to be equally applied by the law. And in that respect, we must not hide. We need to be aware of these facts, and the fact is far more serious than it reads in a few thousand or tens of thousands of people affected by this measure. The fact shows that the reform of the pension system launched in 1999 needs to experience its reform and revision. It can't survive now, it has to be corrected because for the same years, the insurance rate equal payout must be approximately or to be the exact same amount of pension that needs to be made. This does not have to enter into the essential principles of pension reform, but this issue must be resolved because it is quite clear to me that this kind of injustice must not be allowed to survive and remain and especially if we are aware of the tendency that is present, not by further retirement of new generations that come to retirement or the difference, but by year by year, to the harm of new pensioners. This is the first fact that we need to meet and therefore we need to be absolutely clear for social reasons, for economic reasons and for moral reasons, for legal reasons, for constitutional and legal reasons, and to correct. Another fact that's also clear. It cannot be talked about a successful pension reform that brings pensioners into the situation year after year that the average pension is getting lower and lower compared to the average income in the Republic of Croatia. And it falls or falls to such a level that it practically leads to the position of pensioners that it is not enough to survive or meet the basic social needs. Who has an average pension, not the lowest. Therefore, it is also important to take into account the third fact that is equally important. The reform has shown that the contributions made from work and on the basis of paid and earned earnings and contributions paid from the insurance internship are not sufficient to cover the costs of pension, pension payments in the Republic of Croatia, but must be intervened from the budget. And budget intervention is more than 40%. Therefore, the degree of solidarity still in place in the pension reform, which is based on the assumption that you can practically not get 100% of the contributions you have, the value of the contributions you have paid in the insurance, and this is not classical insurance, but with the social element of solidarity but 85% of that, such pensions that this shows on one hand that, in no such conditions with that degree of solidarity, this contribution is not sufficient to cover the costs of pension reform or pension, but, if treated at all, should be treated as a cost but also must be intervened from the tax system. In fact, the detachment from the Republic of Croatia's budget. The key question is, what is the problem? The problem is that with our pension reform, we cannot achieve pension reform until the important effect that should be followed by such pension reform is achieved. And this is that from the so-formed funds of pension funds from the 2nd and 3rd pillars, it can lend and encourage investment in an economy that will create new jobs, employ people and increase the number of those who pay in the Mirovinski Fund, and in this respect can address the issue of pension, pension reforms and... Unfortunately, we have no such effects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The number of unemployed is still very, very large. And at the same time, the number of people who are receiving a pension relative to those who contribute to the financing of pension payments actually always moves between 1.2 and 1.3% in favour of employees. It is therefore impossible to achieve this reform in this way, and in this respect a single question is now being raised which I cannot explain. I can't explain that the government writes in its opinion that it is aware that on average, I quote: That on average more than the pensions they are, they realize after the start of pension reforms on the one hand, that they are lagging behind as far away as possible. It is also said: "At the same time, pension reform has been launched with the aim of establishing a financial and socially sustainable pension system." Financially without a 40% injection from the State budget, this reform cannot survive. He's socially unfair because he's actually bringing new pensioners into a more difficult and difficult situation. In addition, the social aspect is the opposite and fundamental principle of the country's constitutional order. So the question now arises if all of this is true, and what it says here is as it is true, and the government itself has written it more than 40% now I ask the question, and why wouldn't that percentage be a little higher to not be corrected, to correct this social injustice which, in the end, reconciles this system with the Constitution and the social needs of man and citizen. So what's the highest value of this society here? Or we are really demagogues who forget about putting a man on a pedestal and protecting the health and social position of a man and a family and so on, with our Constitution. How's that? When we are aware that after a full-time job with full contributions if next year they will retire they will again have a 30% lower pension than the one that left before 1999. I think that in such a situation it is quite clear that this opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot be accepted. It is not possible to accept the main fact that it is said this way: Work, that a working group is formed again, which will propose the modality of its resolution based on an analysis of the existing situation. And then a member of that working group in public media speaks if it would engage in resolving this issue in order to bring down the reform system. Well, for God's sakes, what a reform system that is neither socially fair is the opposite of the Constitution, nor is it financially sustainable, it's the budget. Well, obviously, he has to intervene in it. ... So let's talk about that question about... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Law on the Rehabilitation of the Pension Disability System in the Republic of Croatia as we have in our time rescheduled the mass of companies, as we have rescheduled the banks and then sold them out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're not going to sell out this time. We're going to have these people stay with us. They will be more satisfied, they will be healthier, of course they will be more socially sensitive and eventually much less alone and all of us together will stand out for the needs of our own, for the protection of their health. Because this way with these minimum pensions and this condition they're in, so of course they're actually at risk of all their life limits, including health care. And to conclude, colleagues from the Club of Representatives of the SDP to my joy as well as members of that club have made a bill that may not be ideal, but at this moment meets the solution that needs to be provided both social justice and constitutionality and legality in this... I wonder if we have the right to refuse this bill. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not if we vote for him. But we have the right to refuse. If we do so, we will commit violence against social justice, violence against the Constitution and the rights of our citizens, and for this reason I am sure that this House will go to another reading and that after the second reading, a law will be prepared to address this issue of our citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84022	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84023	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. At the end of the 1990s, when a package of laws on reform of pension insurance was discussed, then some of the laws we discussed at the time said that it wasn't enough just to pass laws but needed and to monitor what effects these laws would have. So not only reform but also the consequences of what we didn't really do. And now we have the situation as we have it. So for a full 7 years, law enforcement may have yielded positive results at the state's cost level, but for individuals, they have brought negative consequences for the pensioners. And that's what counterpart Vidovic was talking about by presenting this bill in more detail. This is not just a question of pension pensions for pensioners who retire after '99. A year. It will be asked through time and question of pensioners who will not retire only in this system of solidarity, generation solidarity, but also those who will retire by so-called. The second pillar, because nothing has happened here in the last seven years. We stayed at that 5% detachment rate that was defined at the beginning of the '99 pension reform. A year. What would that mean? That means that whoever's been paying the second pillar for 40 years would only make 20% of his salary. So we have to do something about it. If not at this point, but in a close time. We must not allow old age to mean poverty to us and that retirement is a curse. Therefore, I would still not speak of the very text of the law but would refer to the opinion given by the Government by proposing that this Proposal for a Law on Equalisation of Pensions be rejected. The government says that by explaining such a view that the pension reform that has been launched with the aim of establishing a financial and socially sustainable pension system, as the current system has begun to collapse due to the broad scope of rights and rather mild conditions for the achievement of these rights, leading to a high share of pension costs in the gross social product. The introduction of stricter conditions for the exercise of rights from the Generation Solidarity System and the introduction of a new formula for calculating pensions on the basis of salaries achieved throughout the working century resulted in this disproportion at the level of pensions achieved before and after the start of the pension reform. So the government actually sees where the problem is. He said that she had already made a decision on resolving this problem, that a working group was established, etc. and at the same time during the discussion on the possibility of unifying the so-called the old and new pensions of the responsible persons from the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, the economy of labour and social care, the State Secretary says it is impossible to do so. This bill of law actually says it's possible to do so. One model is given how to achieve this and these funds are not so large that they should present such a huge burden on the state budget. I will, from the latest data delivered from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in, when we discussed the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, present a few only data that so faithfully paints what the situation of the pensioners today is. It is also true that the government says the problems are great, that the state budget should now provide significant funds for pension payments. Namely, what's the matter? In 2000, 42.24% were allocated from the Ministry of Peace in 2005 to the budget itself. So the contribution to pension insurance provided just a little more than 50% of the needs. But what's the problem? The problem is that we have a weak pay-out control and contributions billing. In one ad hoc poll, more than 1/3 of the employees actually don't receive salaries through a salary account, through a legal salary account, than part of their salary is paid without a bill, and thus also without account and payment of contributions for both pension and health insurance. That more than 1/3 employees do not have, they are not paid overtime, etc. Thus, such control is lagging behind and certain that one part of the contribution is thus lost. counterpart Lalic has already pointed out here that the large amount, about 12 billion kuna, which applies to taxes and contributes to the blockade because employers do not have, are blocked and do not pay these contributions. Then in these three years of mandate we had a very small rate of employment growth and this relationship of employees and pensioners actually since the start of the pension reform has almost not been significantly increased. These are all issues that should be discussed primarily and addressed at the same time in the extent of the problem in which it can be solved. It is also a worrying fact that we can read from the same report provided by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, for example The average pension paid in 1999, so in the first year of the reform was 1,036,10 kuna to be 1,315.32 kuna in the 9th month of 2006. That only a more significant increase was in 2001 and 2002 when the pension, the average pension slightly exceeded 1.400,00 kuna. However, when we watch the age pension move then in this period from 1999 to 9 months 2006, the average age pension increased by 67 lipa and indeed when we use such statistics it is amazing that there is no solution to align old and new pensions if not entirely then at least in one part. That it is possible to also show this proposal for a law in which we have been assisted by experts who know the pension system, but I think it is unacceptable to make such a statement by the State Secretary, which is certainly the government's position, that it is not possible to coordinate pensions especially if we consider that the budget for 2007 is planned at 108 billion kuna. Surely, in that amount, it is possible to find these billions and 400 million kunas and solve this burning problem for more than 330 thousand current pensioners to continue to solve all those who will retire in this system for the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84024	Thank you, dear colleague Zgrebec. There is a respected colleague, Antičević Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84025	Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Life in Croatia and this life of the average man is not what politicians often say, especially those from the ruling party, but is a man, but the life of a man in Croatia is an average man, and especially a man of pensioners surrounded by worries, anxiety and difficult already, in most cases already abandoned hopes. By 2008 the pension would fall to about 1,000 kuna a month if this trend continued to decline. We have one paradox of many paradoxes that live in Croatia, that the longer a man does, that he has a smaller pension. We in the SDP say and this is what this legislative proposal says, when it first determines the existing situation, that it is unfair and that we want to correct that injustice. Someone says don't look at who it's coming from, let's focus on the content. It's very important who this proposal comes from. So it's no wonder that this kind of proposal comes from the Social Democrats who want to change this one obvious injustice not only requires that I say the elemental common sense but also the elemental justice to correct this kind of injustice. As we know, the difference was when we started paying the pensioners back with an add-on of 100,00 kuna plus 6%. And if we hadn't done that, we'd have a situation where old pensions were as small today as these new pensions. It would be a very bad message if we, or if this legislative proposal were to be seen as something, such a proposal that goes beyond the fact that the old pensioners also have small pensions and what often figures out as a return and an absolute correction of injustice, i.e. the satisfaction of the Constitutional Court's decision to repay the pension to the pensioners, we have a situation that basically the pensioners themselves have paid off their own debt because they are suspended for increasing their pensions in line with the salaries. So this when the government says and when it is used in this Mandarin language, that there is one commission, first of all, promised to meet the commission, to examine this situation, is recognised as such an unsustainable situation, but here is when it needs to be made concrete and concrete something to do about solving this problem then there is no unreal will but there is no power to do so and here it is said that the entire pension system would collapse. Then what about those promises? It is indisputable, one sad fact, that Croatia not only did not start but that poverty knocked on the door of Croatia. This is also what our media reported yesterday, as reported by the World Bank on the presentation of a new Standard of Life and Regional Development of Croatia. Nearly half a million citizens are poor, 11% are quite poor, and 10% are at the poverty line. But when an analysis of this large, high percentage of poverty, however, the World Bank even argues that this is not a very bad place that Croatia has taken, but it does cause and demonstrate some concern when it says exactly how inadequate programmes are, how money is wrongly spent, the one that is intended for exactly social programs and how the most needed money is the most needed, the most needed money, it simply doesn't reach them. And then it's one big mistake from the government, something obvious with these programs, and with the handling of many situations in the country, it's not clear. It shows both efficiency and state administration as well as state policy. That money doesn't come to those who need it. I will perhaps return to one topic or mention only one sentence and the situation where we have enough to have someone register their residence in Croatia and have all certain benefits and benefits without any control. Only in this way was one analysis in our one two-week period, then he went out as a two-week-old, two years ago, when the situation would be cleared up, there would be a huge amount of money left to go and spread justly, that is, that is, the money and the ones that deserve it. Therefore, such a bill makes sense that it comes from the SDP. We were not surprised that despite the promises that something would be done in this regard, the government would give a negative opinion on this legal proposal. But the SDP promises that the pensions will be 70% of the salary and that this is not possible, this government is unable to do so on the basis of the growth of the gross social product of just over 4%, but it is possible for the gross social product of 6%, which is simply recalculated in the budget of 5 billion kuna. And then it's possible in this way to do and settle. It is very important that not only is it a correction of injustice, something that the state and any government should ultimately take into account in the light of their constitutional obligation. But it's not normal for a man who's worked for 40 years to be a social case. We have a case of a master from Podravka. She worked in Podravka full-time. She retired, it's that new pensioner, a pensioner with a thousand and six hundred kuna. It's an alarming condition. That's what you need to react to. '99. In 2000, the percentage of the average salary amounted to pensions, average salaries of 46%, and in 2004 and 2006, respectively, for these new pensioners to have a 29% pension compared to the average salary. Therefore, these are people who have retired full-time and who become a social case. And one injustice is created even in relation to those others who have been suspended on other grounds because they have not fully respected the Constitutional Court's decision and have not been returned to them in the same way as the Constitutional Court has ordered. The government simply shouldn't, should not run away from this fact that her pensioners, or people who have worked full-time, are becoming social cases, that it's a huge corps of over three hundred thousand people, and that this is the perspective of today's working-age population, whether workers, officials and tenants who have such a retirement future. It's an alarming call to the government. The government obviously avoids doing that. The SDP promises and has first and foremost a solution. This is offered by this legislative proposal how it will do so. Therefore, it is our and the basic message, not only to the government that rejects it but also to the citizens how it is possible to correct this obvious injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84026	Thank you very much. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected colleague Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Out of a series of incorrect allegations, I'll fix only a few. A colleague of Anticevic said, when something needs to be done thinking about this difference between old and new pensioners to call them that, then there is no will and strength to do so. That's not true. After depriving the pensioners, 426 of those under the Constitutional Court, she added these another 43,000 out of that decision means that about 460 thousand pensioners have already improved their social status in some way. And it is clear that for these pensioners too, a solution will be found but not from the state budget in order to achieve deficits and other negative trends. Then she said she was a high percentage of poverty. We have the truth 11%, and we'd like it smaller. But he's not tall. And clearly, the standard study conducted by the World Bank says that of the 13 transition countries covered, Croatia has the most favourable indicators. Even here, to surprise us and here, because it has often been pointed out that we have large property differences, that even this is in Croatia after Hungary, that this difference is least pronounced. So, the indicators aren't as bad as they want to be shown, as people want to be, and what little optimism they have to kill by saying that here's what's not said, and now I've written down here somewhere burdened with worries, anxiety, leaving them every hope, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84028	But, pal, your time is up a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84029	Here, I'm a coworker of loan time, so there's no problem. Well, here goes my colleague. counterpart Ingrid Antičević, who is rightly saying that if the SDP comes to power, the pensions will reach 70% of the salary. [[Aggression: Ingrid Antičević.]] This word is to reach this, to reach. That's the wrong quote, because SDP made it... The other way around. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then the salaries reach pensions bring the wages down as soon as they come to power and then the salaries get closer to retirement. So it might be 70%. But the word to reach is guilty. It's coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84030	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84031	Mr. Vice President, my colleague! The place of residence in the Republic of Croatia is not a condition for receiving social assistance, for children's allowance, for pensions, for health, for pension and housing care. The place of residence in the Republic of Croatia is not an individual's wealth or place of residence in the Republic of Croatia. Individuals can impoverish the Republic of Croatia, but can enrich it by coming and moving in and thinking about Croatians.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84032	We're continuing the debate. It's time for my dear colleague, Velimir Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84033	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This bill we are discussing is the opposition political party of the SDP, which has a sweetly offered quick correction of injustice towards a group of new pensioners, and it is normal for me to be in the HDZ party that is in power and we have to ask the question is that really so? Is this based on facts and reality or is it just about planting the current government? When proposing and passing laws, it is always necessary to start from the actual facts which are relevant and accurate. It is necessary to pursue good, just and feasible laws for the citizens of this country. But let us remember today the Christmas messages of Archbishop Bozanić about the sinful structures of the government that I have already forgotten. But now that same Christmas message applies to those who have promised to change and honor in part and on its wings came to power in 2000 but have then changed nothing in particular and have shown little desire for change especially when it comes to the pension system but also to other social standard changes. That is why I find the SDP's unreal and unconvincing proposal. Now, like out of their sleeves, they take out their proposals and offer rescue solutions to correct all injustices. Such expressions of desire and concern are commendable but only if there is a superficial view of the fact that injustice exists and that it needs to be corrected. But now that, and during the time of this government, Dr. Ivo Sanader, some of the injustices have begun to correct, the SDP appears, but other benevolents are also offering their own solutions to the problem of removing social injustices. Even so, it is not even against being honest and generally well - minded. But the nervous and hasty offer of correcting injustice towards the pensioners raises doubts about the sincerity of intent. In fact, he takes on more and more thought and assumes that it is pre-election and a desire to force the government to move forward and unthinkable steps that will not be achieved according to promises. However, the SDP and the entire opposition that supports this law do not lose anything by such a proposal, and on the other hand it gets double because it gives false hope to one part of the electoral body that has nothing to commit it, since it has no authority, and on the other hand, if social demagogy achieves the elections of power, it can be drawn from the failure to execute the exorcised promises of over-social waste. But just because of the reminder, here are several SDP pre-election promises under the password "We want to change". Of these changes, almost nothing has happened. Let's remember the privatisation review. The sanctioning of economic crime. All state and public services' salaries have been significantly reduced to start opening up, inventing various bossy places with increased wage coefficients all under cover of service reform. Workers who had lost their jobs and had possible conditions for early retirement had their right to cash compensation abolished and forced that kind of pension which was also subsequently reduced. The possibility is abolished even by living with a small fee for unemployment meets the conditions of a slightly larger retirement pension. There was no respect for the fact that going to early retirement is an exception and actually free choice of pensioners because of his personal circumstances. By abolishing the right to cash unemployment benefits for such older workers, going to early retirement was a pure coercion for a man who had lost his job. These are all the injustices that could have been avoided at the time without significant economic earthquakes, and then today's SDP promoter and his partners would have proved to be political parties with social feelings. So now the proposal for a law like this cannot be interpreted differently by me and called a different name than pure political demagogy. And even the phraseology of the proposal, or professional terms, for example. The correction factor shows that those of us who have already had opportunities to learn about it under the password "We want to change".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84034	Thank you very much, dear fellow Dance. Five minutes on behalf of club IDS colleague Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84035	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies from the government. If the proposed law regulates that a state pension equalises pension issues that are achieved exclusively in pension insurance on the basis of Generational solidarity under the applicable Pension Insurance Act or the elimination of pension proportionality between the old and new pensioners in a consistent manner in relation to the existing situation and the determination of the pension system, if the proposed law regulates the right to a state pension for age, family and disability pensions that have been made in the period from 1 January 1999 and for future pensioners who will be granted only in the retirement insurance of generational solidarity. And if the establishment of a state pension of 30% of the budget base is applied by the correction factor depending on the year of the pension and the average coefficient rate of 0.25 for 1999 and up to 1 for 2009 then I believe that this law has real foundations and that it certainly needs to be supported. The overall increase in pension incomes, including in the pension system and in the state pensions as permanent pensions will eliminate missing proportions in pension insurance of generation solidarity. The amount of pensions will be equalised between pension beneficiaries who have made their pension since 1999 with pension beneficiaries who have achieved this right by 31 December 1998. And thus significantly improve the material and social position of the so-called New pensioners and provide them with a more suitable life in the third lifetime. So in the first year of application, 2007, it is necessary to provide for about 336 thousand pensioners, state pensions of around 123 million kuna per month, or 1.35 billion kuna per year. And state pension funds would be provided in the state budget, which is very important, because they are the only funds that pensioners are entitled to as compensation, not the funds they already have the right to, and these are the funds. These are all arguments that hold water and therefore the IDS Club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84036	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. The final word of the applicant's representative. The word has a representative, a respected colleague Davorko Vidovic. Here's Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84037	Here is a colleague and colleagues at the end of this debate on the draft of this law I would like to thank on behalf of the motionor all the participants of this debate, and also this one at the end who did not support the proposal of this law only, for the support that the law has given. But not to thank because it was given support to the law proposed by the SDP club, but to a legal solution that solves on its own chance, from what we had the opportunity to hear in a good way a big problem. I'm also saying that a colleague of the Dance who was reluctant to speak of this law has not disputed a single institute under this law. He questioned only the motive and the proposing himself. If so, with great joy, the SDP will leave this law to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, let it take over and present it as its law, but let the problem of these people be solved. That's the meaning of this proposal. This law was not a law of provocation. Here's something we give so let's see the government do something of its own. This is a really seriously prepared law behind which you stand believe me very serious budgets, calculations and in every detail it is thought about to be maximumly consistent, to be consistent with the laws, but also with the financial opportunities of the country. If the Government, the current government has managed to find a billion and 400 million kuna to address the issue of additional compensation for pensioners who were left out in that first model, I see no reason to reject a proposal legally that takes down the most expensive part of the pension problems ahead of us in the future. Once again, I thank you for your constructive discussion and support. And I also call on HDZ colleagues to support this bill, to support it, which does not mean that since it will go to second reading if a good proposal to improve the text of the law itself appears in the meantime so that we do not consider it until the second reading. Today, unfortunately, or they make him happy, however you like, we haven't heard. Thanks again. We expect support for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84038	Thank you, dear colleague Vidovic. I am concluding the debate on the final proposal for a Law on Equalisation of Pension Retirement (State Pensions) but it is not final, but an emergency procedure has been removed. We'll vote on him when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84039	Proposal for a law on equalisation of pension income (state pension). The bill promoter is the SDP Representatives' Club. In accordance with the proposal of the working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on equalisation of pension income proposed by the SDP Representatives Club is not adopted for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government and the reports of the working bodies. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote! The result? With 61 votes for, 6 abstentions and 40 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84040	We're moving on to the next point. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Political Parties – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of HSP, second reading of P.Z. No. 364. You received the bill by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the law? Yeah. The word has a colleague, Kovacevic, on behalf of HSP representative of the legislator. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84041	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. At this point, there is something registered about 108 political parties. And probably not most of you here, and weighing the number of Croatian citizens does not know about many of these parties or the leaders of these parties. Let's say you know there's a Democratic Principality Party? Do you know there's a Democratic-Prigora-Zagreb party? Do you know that there is a Democratic Social Union the forces of the people? A country citizen's party? Do you know there's a party around 21? So that there's a party to the Rabi General Assembly? The Turkish Democratic Party? Now that you know, do you know who the leaders of these parties are? You don't know as much as most Croatian people do. And that's why it's happening in the circus elections, and that's why we're having a messy political scene in Croatia. According to the current legal decisions of the Croatian parties, more and more every day. We're witnessing that only in the last two weeks three new parties have been founded. Therefore, around 108 political parties in Croatia are operating at this point. All these political parties are registered in the Register of Political Parties run by the Central State Administration Office. And they as well as registered political parties have the property of a legal person. So you have the right to political action. Right to media representation. The right to equal participation in elections and other rights defined by law. If you took that to each election unit, then on each ballot, for example, all of these 108 parties would participate in the parliamentary elections, plus independent lists, and then imagine how many ballots could look on election units, or in polling stations. Are we, like other countries, going to bring order to the political scene or will there be enough for one party to have a few persons, a ficus, flags and a few people who will spontaneously yell live president? When we know that many of these 107 and 108 political parties have tried to participate in local elections, either in parliamentary elections, but have never won a single council seat. So it is finally time that the Croatian party's right club, and the Croatian right party has long proposed to impose order on the political scene, to prescribe that the Constitution normally allows some basic criteria that it must have, which conditions must be met by the political party in order to be registered as such in the register of political parties. So in the first reading of the HSP club, he was proposing that for the establishment of a political party, or for its entry into political, we proposed that he be 10 thousand members of that political party, meaning Croatian citizens who are businessable. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has made an observation that this figure may have to be reduced to 5 thousand, and we have accepted it for this final draft of the law, meaning that in relation to the original proposal where it was intended that the political party, meaning not only the political party that would be established, means the newly established political party in order to join the political party register, we should also have 5 thousand members but also the existing political parties that, meaning from those which I have listed here, which none knows, of these 108, so that they can act and remain on the political stage should also have within six months of the date of entry into force of this law so that they can continue to act and remain in the court register, means to provide evidence that they have 5 thousand Croatian citizens of minors who are able to do so and as such, that would be one of the conditions for them to continue to act on a political scene. So according to the position of the Croatian party right club, it would be one of the minimums to introduce order on the political scene, that election campaigns, especially for parliamentary elections and confrontations, would not look like a circus and that it would happen that election campaigns could not talk about programmes at all, anything else, because that part of the various characters who are looking forward to the election to be seen by a mother-in-law or one of the neighbors on TV, he lives for those four years, and then he shows up again after that four years and then he talks for four years about how he was on Croatian television and how he was a candidate, or how he is the president of some kind of party. Therefore, whether we will restore trust to Croatian citizens, Croatian voters in politics, whether we will make a minimum of what we really need to do so that all of us and those who think they have ideas that will be realized as part of the political party, but in order for them to have the support of Croatian citizens of the age-old, business-worthy. If they don't win anything in the election, if they use, say, rooms, real estates from cities and municipalities. Take only in the City of Zagreb how many properties of various parties and parties no one knows about, but as such, as a registered political party she has the right to seek space for her work. So in all the other municipalities and cities and today, probably you state secretaries should know this well, how much use the business space is, and let's say this business space for this principal party or for this party round 21 or as they're not all called, so it would be far more appropriate to give it to an entrepreneur who would work and not give it to a particular party that no one knows, who has never won, or how things will stand to win any council place that we don't tell a place in the Croatian Parliament. We therefore have the opportunity to treat voters and taxpayers and Croatian citizens responsibly and to say let's introduce a minimum minimum to serious political scene, to give some minimums how and how a political party can register as such and to register in the register of political parties so that it can act. In this part of the Croatian Party of Rights club, it agrees with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which gave a positive opinion on our proposal for legislation and which has been going to its amendments to correct the law, i.e. it is possible to apply such a law immediately. But then comes this part of the second where the whole story comes back from the beginning, comes the signing of the president of the club, Luke Bebić, the amendment that says, that would only refer to newly founded political parties, not to the situation that is now. Now I don't know what kind of attitude that is. Government that one, club that another. Now the issue is general, so the HSP club offers the opportunity to address the issue of action on the political scene. If you don't, tell the Croatian people we won't do it, we'll have maybe 100 more parties, we'll have a new 100 ficus, we'll get more municipalities, cities, the state will be obliged to give such political parties business space, they'll have access to the media, and they'll have every right, and then we'll have a situation that more and more people will believe in political parties as little as possible and that they won't even know the purpose of the political scene, which is the purpose of establishing political parties. What is the purpose of establishing political parties? The purpose is to present programmes, win mandates. But in this book you have 108 political parties, never won a term anywhere. We also have here in the assembly the same person who has new parties founded. I understand them. But if you have programs and you believe in yourself, I guess you can find 5,000 people. If you have that, how do you plan on going to parliamentary elections when you need at least 5,000 votes for the post, and you don't have 5,000 people to support you? Then what's the problem? ... The problem is, all you need is the money that you're going to get which is voted, and then after that, and now adio. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84042	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Bosnjakovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84043	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club agrees that there is a need to bring order here on the political scene and that Croatia really has 108 or 104 political parties, as Kovacevic said, is indeed a large number for our opportunities. However, these parties were created in accordance with the Law on Political Parties, they were created in accordance with the conditions which were valid and in force at the time of their establishment. They received legal subjectivity at the time, they were entered in the register of political parties and therefore the right to their existence cannot challenge them. This law has one thing in it that we disagree with, and in that sense we have submitted an amendment, which is that it is only worth pro futuro. So, we do not agree that it is worth retroactively backwards, we do not agree that it means within 6 months all parties must collect the further 5 thousand signatures they need, because we believe that all these parties that are registered under the current Political Party Act have the subjectivity and that we cannot take it away from them by such an amendment of the law. Otherwise, we completely agree that pro futuro is worth it, that whoever wants to be on the political scene has to collect 5,000 signatures. That's 250 signatures per county. He who does not and how many members can gather is indeed questionable to whom he represents and what his strength is. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports here a brief proposal for this law, but with this amendment that we have submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84044	Thank you, dear fellow Bosnjakovic. I'm on behalf of the SDP club now, but since I have to wait, here comes the replacement. Then I suggest the next club goes, so I'll go when the president comes to replace me. HSLS club, dear colleague Zlatko Kramaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84045	I must now welcome both the President and the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State Mr Palaric, my colleague and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Political Parties proposed by our colleagues from the HSP Club reminds me of that story, when the diagnosis is relatively accurate or even even accurate, which is that political life in Croatia is rather messy and that it should be arranged in some way, but then the medicine that offers them for such an arrangement and is not exactly the best and in some way miss out on the idea that was let's say, we can call it noble. And certainly that all of us who are involved in political life would like to see here after 17 years of this political transition to be as neat as possible, to be more normal and to really present politics as one important and responsible job and not to be that, and not that there really is one... in the public that exists, and then right next to politics is linked exclusively to negative connotations and with the profession of politicians as the worst thing that can happen to you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is especially when those times of parliamentary elections come, and all of a sudden, as mushrooms after the rain, they begin to break down independent lists, which are then suddenly organized ad hoc, and go to elections, they also get the right to a media presentation. All in the name of freedom, democracy, equality. And then a little bit almost completely clouded the political space. That's a fact. But I think that this one mess needs to be found yet some other way to avoid it or how it comes down to the right measure. I'm always scared when something's going crazy. Is it a number, what does that mean, a five thousand figure? Is she, even colleagues offered 10, so now, as the government descends to 5, that's accepted. You know, there's also that story where someone's named after a classic. So I say, when he's been dead for 100 years. So he says, can't 99? Well, that's fine. So how about 98 then? Well, that's fine. And so you actually realize that none of these boundaries are really that binding and there's no reason to call someone a classic by saying tomorrow, right after his death after you go down by reducing ad absurd. So are the parties. Is it really 5,000 that figure that guarantees that a party is serious and that in some way it has the right to be called that. Experiences in Europe are different in the world. I don't even know... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, well, well. But here's the deal. Slovakia has about the same population as Croatia. Let's just say the state... has the same population as Croatia, but there is no way that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are over 3,000 members. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, some times this party and political life is organised differently. The party is important and I also think that I have always defended the public of our political parties. There were a lot of individuals who were also political parties, in a way, trying to do something about it. Indeed, political parties must exist if we really want political life in Croatia, that pluralism is impossible without political parties. But I'm saying I'm afraid this drug that HSP colleagues have offered is actually wrong and it doesn't solve all of our issues. The more important question is whether it is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with Article 6? I know that always this freedom sometimes knows how to go, so it becomes anarchical, and then it can't be distributed with freedom. But here, Article 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia speaks... The party is free and I say it's very difficult and I'm afraid actually if this criterion of yours, yours is 5 thousand, that 5 thousand is that optimal number or a minimum number that a party would have to participate in political life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think there's a whole series of other ways that aren't used and that's just a constant check by the government's body. Are the parties already registered, do they work according to their own statutes, which in the end also this state administration and morale, the state office had to accept and accept? Do they maintain regular conventions, to see just what they are, because we are aware that indeed many of those who are supposed to be registered do not actually do so. And that is enough reason, in fact, that and then in no way do we fuck anyone's constitutional right, but we are simply implementing those existing Croatian laws. And we say, forgive me, gentlemen of the oxy party, you have not held the convention, in fact your political life, within the party life is zero, does not exist. And as such, those are sufficient reasons to be eliminated from the political scene. And in some ways it doesn't contaminate political space when the time comes. I think it's a much more elegant way. And like this... We ask ourselves, and what about the whole series and regional parties that are also legitimately present, constitutionally there are, which have also done a story called the fight for Croatian democracy, and without which we could really and very hard to imagine political life, for example in Istria without IDS, cannot actually imagine political life and have played a very significant role in these 1990s and have indeed been a correction of certain bad or clumsy or not quite acceptable actions of the central government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is very difficult for this party to have 5,000 members today, but it is not important, but it was more important that they found the way to the heart and mind of the citizens of that space and managed to convince and actually become a relevant political force even in the Croatian Parliament, which is indeed to welcome. This is true for the PGS, too, and that applies to these Međimurci and all others who are also doing a very important job and our political life would be much poorer if these political parties were to be eliminated from political life on that basis alone. I say order should be established. I really agree because just when it comes, that time especially before the parliamentary elections, when those thousands, or indeed most often, are, most unfortunately, exhibitionists who then appear and who, whose very liberal, liberal solutions make it possible for them to, yes, and then contaminate that scene, and then that scene actually causes sodium. There were large parties that had not been in the previous elections, they gave up those hour of performance in those strange times and strange times, and when indeed in some way that equality was brought about by cartoons. And it's highly influenced, it affects abstinence, it affects people's giving up not to participate in politics, and that's why I say on the one hand politics is a very ambitious situation. Politics represents sodium but I say many people especially before the elections like to organise themselves and in some way try to, try to make what is constitutional law and so on, but I'm afraid that because of some indetermination in some of our positive laws, they are allowed to do so. That's why I say colleagues should be commended for the diagnosis but also for the sin they should be wasted because I say, I'm afraid, if we really want to standardize everything, then we won't have too much luck. And most of what is actually, what, in which, in which, why am I speaking counter to this bill is precisely because it is the opposite of Article 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and it will be very difficult, if someone made a complaint and certainly one who would feel if the law passed so that the Constitutional Court could demand that the constitutional court be manifested then it seems to me that colleagues from the HSP did not take care of this very important element exactly the fact that the establishment of political parties in our country is freely. That it's not in any way restricted. I'm afraid it's causing them a lot of trouble. And order, I repeat, order should be introduced. You should ask Mr. Palaric to have his state office do his job, do his job. That this internal control, internal life to be permanent, and just anyone who doesn't regularly maintain his convention, who brings political life down to only going to elections and actually there isn't what's called an organization, one serious party structure that deserves to be eliminated. Then I deeply believe that this political life of ours would be more orderly. And on the other hand, I'm always really scared when, let's say, every solution goes on track, and I know that HSP colleagues don't like bipartisans in Croatia. I think that Croatia is neither our tradition nor political nor culturally is such that we could accept some Anglo-Saxon principles and I would really not be happy, would not be happy in living in a society that would move between something called the left, something called the right. We unfortunately or fortunately better say our democratic Republicans don't. Those they already have are too heavy for everyone, for all of us. Our tradition is something, but it's different. That tradition should be respected. Croatia is not a disintegrating factor between the countries of the region and the region, but an integral factor. I, as a structuralist, see exactly the beauty of differences and I think that differences are absolutely necessary and necessary. And many political parties have also come about because these differences have tried in a very harsh and inappropriate way to eliminate themselves. It is not, and it is not good and it would not be good if now after 17 years of this transition democracy of ours to resort again to certain rigid principles of elimination from the political life of those who have also contributed precisely to the democratisation of our political life. ... My colleague, I've got nothing... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Djapić you will, you will...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'd ask you not to, you'll have a chance to speak for the club and you'll probably do it again, but I wouldn't, I'm always afraid that any party or HSP will interpret the Constitution. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The constitution should still... And so on, no, I didn't ask to interpret the Constitution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm just reading article 6 right now. I'm reading his 1st indent and in that 1st indent, he's talking very clearly about freedom, about freedom. And this, then, as soon as something is normal, then that freedom is a limit. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84046	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84047	No, Ante Starcevic was the first liberal, but you are no longer liberal. ... That's the problem. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is not a problem in Anti Starčević, but it is a problem in you who misread Ante Starčević. It's not the first time you've had it, we've proven to you several times that you're misreading it. Even if you can't read his will. ... It's not... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[Peace, please! Peace, please!]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84048	Peace, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84049	No, no, no. Interpretation of Ante... [[Agreement: Gentlemen of Representatives]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84050	To which it refers, moment one. ... No comment, please. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Yes.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84051	No one threatened. No one threatens... /Speakers don't understand, speak out loud./... You have several institutes correcting the wrong quote, you have whatever you want, you have
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84052	Col. Kramarić please continue, and you may choose to refrain from any incursions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84053	Thank you. Thank you, sir, I'll really be right here,... I repeat again, the diagnosis is well-set. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That there really is a mess, there are a whole series of political parties that are not active but are awakening before the elections. That in some way especially when parliamentary elections come that they wake up abruptly. In some ways, they contaminate this media area in a completely wrong way which leads to politics becoming, unnecessarily stigmatized, but the medicine offered is completely guilty and does not contribute to that original premise, which is the introduction of order but is just the introduction of elements of restrictions, elements that do not conform to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore the HSLS Club cannot do exactly from these principles, from this second step which we think is bad, and we are just appealing once again to the state office to do its job and to do this job quite correctly. That he would then judge neither by his grandmother nor by his uncle but by the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia and what should be sanctioned. And I say there are really these elements that, without any major problems and without any restrictions from the political scene, eliminate a whole series of parties that really aren't active and that exist exclusively on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84054	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84055	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry. I don't know the article I'm referring to but it's the first time since '95. Since we've been in Parliament, I've been reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Such a insignificant law that tries to intervene with certain things in Croatian legislation that have nothing to do with any reason to break the rules of procedure, so that Mr Kramaric has to pollomise with the representatives of the bench because it is absolutely not appropriate. Gentlemen, the promoters have enough opportunities to go behind each of us to discuss the public as proposings to explain their proposal, not to spread ourselves in the bench and to polarise in a casual discussion. We can do that later at the bar together. I think they're breaking the rules of procedure. ... I don't know, I said I don't know the article. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84056	Please. I was trying to tolerate the debate. And so does MP Kramaric when he calls for controversy with MPs, and then he is responsible for that call, and then these other MPs come in. So, when there's a debate in that way to call it a culpa divisa. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Moving and mobing, yeah. Go on in one of these atmospheres, then you start, I see you're waving, then you go on in one atmosphere, and suddenly you start a little bit over the top, and you start polymizing, mutually. It's... Is Parliament but then Parliament. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, we're not in the church, and we're not even in the coffee shop. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, there is, yes, you have practice. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, you're innocent in that sense. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Proposer, on behalf of the applicant, representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84057	Oh, look. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know why you're so nervous. And now more colleagues are saying it's about insignificant law. It's obviously very important that you're so horny. If he were insignificant, they wouldn't react that way. But let's go back to the law itself. I mean, it's nice to hear Mr. Kramaric talking about democracy says that the establishment of political parties is free. That's right. But you know what the law says now? It takes 100 adult Croatian citizens of business skills. Well, according to you, any adult Croatian citizen could establish a political party. But it's said in accordance with the law. So let's not exaggerate and talk about democracy. It's anarchy you're saying. It's not democracy. Democracy has its own rules of conduct. The rules of conduct are laid down both by the Constitution and by the laws. So we're pleading to bring order to the political scene. Will you or won't you. If you've agreed with HDZ ok. Speak plainly, we will withdraw the law. Make a deal, you can't raise 5 grand. Say we can't raise 5,000 members. Maybe we can help you. Look, now let's look at another variant. According to counterpart Bošnjakovic, retroactiveness, I think that Mr Arlovic said somewhere, is not retroactive if it is given a period of 6 months or, let's say, a year to comply with the new provisions of the law. It's not retroactivity, I think. Either one of us has to go back to law school or let's not tell people what retroactivity is. We know what legal retroactivity is. And in many cases, we have a situation, in many laws, where we are now harmonising our regulations with the legal gains of the European Union where we give companies in Croatia if anyone wants to deal with similar or same jobs that they have to coordinate their activities within 6 months. If they don't comply, they're out of action, right? Because it's retroactive? It's not. Because they were given the time limit to align their activities with those prescribed by the law. So let's not use big words about anti-constitution, about democracy, about retroactivity when there's no room for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84058	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84059	I don't know where my colleague Kovacevic saw me incinerated. I'm so calm, I'm so completely collected and. So we can joke, it was said that here is the government of anxiety, that it's a very important law and that we are because of one of the most important proposals that has ever been made in the history of Croatia... That's why we're on fire. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not on fire at all. I'm very private. And I really repeat once again I see no reason why my colleague Pero Kovacevic interprets the Croatian Constitution. And exactly, neither he understands Semantics nor is understood in syntax, nor is he understood in pragmatism. And if that were the case, you'd continue to insult yourself. But I don't want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84060	Second correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Ivanis.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84061	So I would also, on other grounds alone, correct the assumption that this law is significant. In the Croatian Parliament and in the Croatian Assembly, a legal system that proposes anti-constitutional solutions, and also violates the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in three articles, which we will be certain later that it cannot be considered a significant but insignificant attempt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84062	What now? ... Don't pollemize like this because it's not good for you, is it? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] You're not horny? It's good. SDP club, respected deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84063	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I didn't mean to be too hard on this law on behalf of our club. But when a colleague reminded us that we should all go to law school, and especially those who propose an amendment to save this law from instability because of retroactivity, then I need to step up my attention to protect the profession or devasting myself. First, this law should not have come to any other reading, it does not meet business conditions. In the light of the specific articles that are being amended, the applicants did not even agree to explain all the articles proposed by this law. So you have an explanation for Article 1, you have an explanation for Article 2, you have an explanation for Articles 5 and 6, 7 and 8. you have no, 3 you have no, 4. you have no etc. The question is who should go to colleges, because these elements of nomotechnics that are learned at the seminar at the first semester of the Law Faculty. Secondly, we regret that this bill must be discussed in this way. We would like to remind ourselves that, in our time as a club, we have proposed the Law on Political Parties, which also addresses this issue in a democratic way regarding the possible rounding of the political scene. We have suggested, if you remember, that parties which in the parliamentary elections do not pass the term of office twice, that the third term be deleted. In such a situation, it is quite something else, so we do not first enter the constitutional principle on which the constitutional order on the development of multilaterals rests. Secondly, we do not enter into the re-registration of parties offered by this draft law among other things in Article 5 and in that segment it is quite clear that this Article 5, from the constitutional point of view, is being asked. In Article 89, the Constitution states very clearly, in paragraph 1, 2, 3, 4. – the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of national authorities and bodies which have public authority cannot have a feedback. Dear colleagues and fellow political parties also have public authority in the elections they hold and not only by elections but also by other bodies authorised under the Law on Elections, and in this respect it is clear that the new conditions for the registration of 5 thousand members of political parties within 6 months of the alignment of the statutes, the question of their re-registration, as in fact, the parties which will not be able to satisfy this condition will not be reregistered, or better said, would obtain legal conditions for those parties to be deleted from the register. The political objective of rounding up the political scene in the Republic of Croatia may be achieved, but it would remain questionable whether it is a retroactive action and in this respect I have nothing against those who have expressed their opinion that there are elements that can be judged that such a provision may also have elements of retroactiveness. The second thing we'd like to notice from the club, which is why we don't think we could support this bill, is the question of its reality. Namely, the amendment to Article 6(1), which states: "the political party can establish at least 5,000 full-time business citizens of the Republic of Croatia mean that everyone in the founding assembly is gathered because the founding act or statute or any other body cannot do so except those who are the founders". The question is, in fact, in the Republic of Croatia, how much space can suddenly be gathered 5 thousand, of course they are not football clubs' playgrounds. We believe that this is a very big problem, the more the constitutional question is again, because in the Constitution in the article as you know it, not the 6. to which some colleagues have been called but in Article 43, it explicitly states: "everyone is guaranteed the right to free association". So these 5,000 founders have the right to the founding assembly to be all 5 grand to form it. The second question is, after the party is established, what happens when the bodies are elected, when the statutes are adopted, etc. and then these are the conditions in accordance with, of course, the law which states, among other things, in Article 9 that a record of the work and decisions of the founding body of the assembly is to be submitted. The founding body is this very congregation made up of these founders, those five thousand. The question is how to implement it and how it should be taken into account. Of course next to them they would have to adopt a program, statutes, etc. etc. which founders have the right and obligation not only under this law but also under the Law on Associations. Let us not forget that, under the Constitution of Article 43, political parties are actually treated in a broader sense as associations that, although having lex specialis, have their own special laws to be governed, follow the fate of the Association Act than the Law on political parties who say so, although in Article 43, it explicitly states that each person is first guaranteed free to enjoy the protection of their breakthroughs or commitment to social, economic, political, national, cultural and other beliefs and objectives. For this reason, everyone can freely establish trade unions and other associations. The Association writes. This, of course, is corrected in Article 6 but in Article 6. The constitution is said to regulate the position and financing of political parties, not the establishment. This does not mean that we, the Law on political parties, cannot regulate and set up and edit, but now the question is how. In fact, we also protect the provisions of Articles 43 and 46 and Article 3 in which we need to develop multilateralism among other things. The question arises whether all members of a party who are founders should always be here in such a number that we could and must look for this part here. The second thing is that there was a possible crackdown on corruption and that it was said that the political parties that founded 100 citizens and which act, etc. If they fall below a certain number, they will eventually be deleted. That's another thing. But to prescribe that 5 thousand people who have every right and obligation to start a party, otherwise you can't start them if there aren't 5 grand like that, then that they have to, how you're going to collect them and how you're going to... I don't think that would be right if it weren't correct and because of it and it's not practical with us, it's not feasible and for that first reason we won't support it, or another reason we won't support this law. [[You don't understand.]] The third question we would also like to point out is that the question where it is said that political parties not registered under the provisions of this law should not act on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that this should still be left at the Constitutional Court's verdict and that the Constitutional Court assesses whether they are all registered, or what it is. Whether the registration act is a declarative or constitutive act is a question to be asked. Because in the current law, we have the following. The application to register political parties shall be accompanied by these documents, they shall become a legal person after that, so we have both, and a declarative and constitutive act. Therefore, the question is now raised, if it is not entered here, to return to the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court where the lawfulness of the work and the activities of the political parties is decided by the Constitutional Court and, therefore, it is necessary to write here, political parties which are not, which do not meet the requirements for enrolment in the Register, because it can also be verified, or are not entered, that the Constitutional Court will prohibit them from doing so. It is not good to prohibit the work of political parties by law because we are then putting ourselves in a censor's situation rather than the Constitution. And that's why we avoided her when we were making changes to the Constitution and before that. We avoided being decided by a representative body, but we said it was decided by a body outside of politics. That this is decided by the Constitutional Court and that is why the legal conditions and the reasons why the Constitutional Court should act and act in this regard are laid down. Of course, it is possible to go to many of the things that colleagues would suggest here, and therefore we believe that the diagnosis that would be necessary for a large number of parties to be set, to reduce the number of parties in the Republic of Croatia stands. We don't think this is the best solution that's been offered. We think it would be a far more quality solution that allows the parties that are registered to continue if they want to deal with politics. To be prescribed by the Political Party Act as far as they can and need to cross the threshold, i.e. be at a certain level registered. If they succeed then they remain political parties, if they fail to delete from the Register. On the other hand, if it was to go to the right number, it should have been possible that parties falling below a certain number after being entered in the Register could possibly be deleted from the Register for this reason. But there should never be a double set. That it's a condition and registration and establishment because it's very difficult...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84064	Don't disturb the vice president in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84065	With such a large number of members actually ensure that they exercise their constitutional right to participate in the establishment of a political party. And the last thing we want to point out. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia decides among other things and oversees the constitutionality, programme of work and action of political parties and may prohibit their work in accordance with the Constitution. Now the question is, should the law here write it exactly that we forbid it, not the Constitutional Court, because I remind you that the Constitution requires it under the Constitution? Therefore, it would be for that variant to say that, if in law, they do not meet the conditions that they must be deleted. Or if they do not meet the conditions that they can be registered or some of the factors, then a request is submitted to the Constitutional Court which is actually making a declarative decision to delete them because they do not meet the constitutional conditions and criteria laid down in the Constitution of the prescribed right for citizens to be joined among other political groups. Starting from all of this, we believe that this bill, regardless of the relatively good political goal it wants to achieve, which is the rounding of the political scene, would not be appropriate to support it this time, in this way as it is now proposed. And we suggest he doesn't support himself. A representative club won't vote for him. And besides, there's another detail that we don't think is good. And that is, this final bill has entered the year, the pre-election year. It is not good in the pre-election year to pass a law that tries among other things to reduce the political scene in the Republic of Croatia regarding the right of political parties that are already parliamentary parties to exercise their right. We believe that this would lead to a very serious issue, in fact, of the fundamental principles of the Constitution, and in this respect, if the issue is to be resolved, we should, as we have suggested at the beginning of this term, and after this term at the beginning of the next term, adopt a completely new Law on political parties that should be resolved and the issue of rounding up the political scene. It is not good at a time when a pre-election campaign is already under way because, you know, the adoption of this law could result in several parliamentary parties or those who have serious intentions to become parliamentary parties falling out of the game, which would not be good and not be at the very end of the line fair and fair, regardless of what constitutional and legal regulation this will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84066	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84067	Your Honor, Mr. President! I don't think my colleague Arlovic meant no harm to say. But I don't agree with the scale of what the proposer wanted with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84068	Correction is an allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84069	The correction is the assumption that the legislator of this law wanted to clean up the political scene but on the right. If we know that Croatia is a clean party of rights, Croatian rights, Croatian party of rights in 1861, Croatian Republicans, Croatia is still a cleaner party of law, New Croatian right, etc., taking part of the vote to the proposer. I think the measure of things is that the dog doesn't bark for the village, but for himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84070	Now, all right. We now have a respected representative, Damir Cain, IDS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84071	This is neither a democratic solution. What we hear isn't constitutional. Or this proposal, as Kramaric would say, does not reflect a single Croatian tradition. This is the duration of a totalitarian solution. Those who thought of profiting from it eventually made a big mistake. The law was not meant to go into another reading. Today, if I am not mistaken, President Mesic said that he would not subscribe such a law without the Constitutional Court's assessment. And it is really good that someone is simply thinking about this segment of what is happening within this political life of the Republic of Croatia. It is also good that seven or 15 days ago, Mr. Shakespeare said in an interview, that the law cannot be retroactively applied. I personally believe that these standards should not apply to future parties either. Well, finally, the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia had a million members and the party and Yugoslavia fell apart. ... Thank God more. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Federation of Communists of Croatia had 300,000 members, so it fell apart in a way that half of them had entered you, some of us, some of them remained where they were, something went to HSLS, HNS etc. 10,000 communists created Yugoslavia, a million communists destroyed that country. So the number is neither a guarantee of success nor democracy, nor a guarantee of survival in power. The Chinese have no idea in the Communist Party 10 million or more and to be in power, one vote is enough and perhaps less. I think Mr. Zeljko Kurtov is right. It was meant by this law to collect votes on the right, but well, they're to organize themselves I don't know what 10.12. but I don't think that should be feared. So the votes could even get on the left there will go about as this one goes on the right hand and by, the elections if these something age, some votes might not know the German pattern. But I'm not speculating right now. I've had the impression all this time that this is HSP's proposal and HDZ's idea. Does someone like someone here say they can delete from the register of political parties because they do not have 5,000 members, and in 15 years, they participate in the political life of the Republic of Croatia with one, two, three, four, five or more representatives. Maybe he can. But I don't think you should. Is there anyone who can wipe someone out of political life if, for example, 15 years they've been involved in some local self-government? I don't think you should either. I don't know, maybe IDS could raise 5,000 members. Now we don't have them. But it would be clear to you that we could reach 5,000 members, but what you're going to say is when on the other hand, the same party whose member gets 60, 70,000 votes regularly. And then who can challenge our presence in this public political life? If this were to be done in one of these ways... I'm not saying it would be an introduction to a totalitarian structure, but it would have those elements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, once again I'm going to say there are those in IDS who absolutely agree with this proposal. Yes, there is. Are they smart or not? Perhaps they too would like to clean up the political stage in the area where they operate. But I think on the other hand, we're all getting maybe because of a situation like this because of this famous... What should be regulated on the other hand, how do you position yourself according to some independent lists? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Relationships on the costs that these parties are small, which do not cross the thresholds and so on, means that these parties really do some, the budget costs I simply cannot accept. They're nebulous, those claims, why? Because the budget always pays the mandates, the budget doesn't pay the parties. Although, one of them has the benefit. I said higher avis "Tonta" those who are stronger there can profit. For he who is divided is no longer what he is but something smaller for those who cross the thresholds and so forth. The only damage to these small parties is equal media representation, but that means only 30 days until the election if and then and in the rest of the time of 4 years we know that it is not the case. And what's most important. For new parties you can also ask for 5,000 members, 50,000 members but for the existing simply paraphrasing Mr. Seks in that interview with Vjesnik that is not possible. That's why we can't eliminate anyone from the political stage. The argument of some, I don't know, in the public of the mentioned countries that set those thresholds and so on can't stand. Croatia, as Kramarić said, has no tradition of one America, Great Britain, and we simply don't need any such bipolar system and bipolar scene here. Perhaps some would like it, perhaps it is the media that creates this bipolarity that is unnatural to Croatian society, but I claim that Croatian tradition is also something else. So we should make it possible for every political performance and not Croatia to return I don't know in some communism, to some one-party where one party would be an avant-garde like a communist party, the other would be a soc alliance, I don't know someone would be younger, someone would be SUBNOR and it would all end up. But now they're joking aside. This proposal, in my court, is deeply totalitarian, non-democratic, and above all dangerous. The one who would thus overturn the political scene I think would harm pluralism which does not mean, it should also be fair that this idea proposed by the HSP, which the HDZ would not accept to me, because under quotes, it is enough to deceive them by reducing costs and so on and then will say "Ah, all the evil in this country" which is a lie, "we are parties and we are going to eliminate in this way because it may be" and that's the delusion "tomorrow be better." Finally, in some times, it was supported in the name of democracy, I don't know what, and those who then caused the greatest evil on the globe. After that, those who gave them the mandate in the 20s or 30s regretted it, but it all began clearly innocently in the cellophane nicely wrapped up like this. But there are too many parties, which is a lie. The brakes are a change in this country, blocking, I don't know, a political life that's a lie. They cost their budget, their structure is undemocratic and so on, and the truth is the next thing they want to do is eliminate them, perhaps eventually and forge the electoral will. Now, gentlemen, that would be more than dangerous. The solution, there is one solution that many in this assembly are not prepared for. It's a direct election. So let's see whose mother then black fleece crossed? So let's see who gets a mandate and who sits in this house? But one like this, under quotes, a democratic solution will not be offered by anyone in this country. It is easier to overturn the electoral law although it is necessary to be fair and admit that the current electoral solution written by "note bene" and independent legal experts is fair and fair and useful for Croatia. This proposal, I agree with those who have said, is one of the most recent ones in the House at all, and I expect, and I expect that the motionary will withdraw and that we will not need to vote on any amendments. And that some things should be prescribed but not in this way certainly yes, but I'm not going to do it for this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84072	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84073	Mr. President, I have to correct actually one quote that is at the same time a finding. And it reads, "We must not eliminate anyone from the political scene." It's absolutely true, we can't. But there's one thing we need to especially emphasize. We can't. I would like to remind you that this thesis does not stand, nor does this argument stand. For the simple reason that this law would be passed, there is an opportunity to set up an association for this, which you need 3 citizens. There is another possibility that citizens can collect a number of signatures and form independent lists. There is a third possibility that is stimulated by our amendments and additions to the Electoral Law by which every independent representative gets the money if he shows up again in the elections, so he will be stimulated to actually form independent lists. We will not only eliminate anyone but by adopting such a political law would actually lead to the fact that despite the Law on political parties and supporting or stimulating citizens to play the Law on Political Parties and through the Law on Associations and Independent Lists increasing their number and participation in the elections. So nothing objective will be achieved in that segment. And that's why it would be better if this law wasn't passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84074	And another correction, honourable representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84075	My colleague Cain said this was an idea HSP suggested, and HDZ sufflified them. I just have to make it right that we really didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84076	I didn't hear. What did you say?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84077	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84078	What's the other way around? Honored representative Nikola Ivanis on behalf of the PGS, SBH and MDS representatives club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84079	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected legislators. Let me, on behalf of the smallest parties to be participated in this House, say more facts which the political assessment of this proposal is for the simple reason that after some previous speakers, mainly after Mr Arlovic, who spoke thoroughly about the legal aspects, perhaps it is necessary to avoid a legal debate, to list only Articles 6 and 43 and Articles 89 and 128. The Constitution. After that, I may just list without reading what Articles 45, 55, and 104 read. The law on constitutional law on what we are at as regional parties of people who teach constitutional law at law schools in the Republic of Croatia. And they clearly told us that they would represent us in this dispute. Among them are some people who have stood at the head of this Constitutional Court, and these are not today. Therefore, we also consulted for our first reading and in the summer of 2006 with the first reading, we pointed out. So on the legal aspect, no. But the whole series of facts that you've brought out, Mr. Honorable Representative Kovacevic, I'm going to be talking about from the angle and the worldview that I'm looking at. You mentioned 108 parties. You've listed a few of them. Then it would be fair to list eight right-wing small parties operating in Croatia with those listed. You haven't listed one that doesn't speak of honorable intentions. You asked us if we knew any leaders of these parties. I personally know very well. Well, for example, I know the leader of the last founded right party that was founded a month ago. This is your former party colleague Mr. Chapko, a university professor from Rijeka. And there he also used Croatia's democratic system to form a party in accordance with the laws. And everything else will be what people give him, voters, someone would say what God gives him. Therefore, and among those whom you have numbered, you have numbered the Rabi General Assembly. A party that has been competing with me in my county for years as a party on Rab Island. With your understatement, you mentioned it, and obviously you don't know the fact that it is participating in the city government of the city of Rab in 2 terms. The city of 10,000 inhabitants and it certainly does not represent a small island or a small unit of local self-government. Thus, just to mention someone as insignificant, and they regularly cross all thresholds and participate in power. Of course, others you mentioned may mention in that light. Therefore, I think, or at the club, we think that dating with this law was a little hasty, that it was not thought over enough and that this aspect of intervention with the correction of the alleged mention was not even considered by the honourable representative Arlovic. It would be very likely to create more circuses. Because for these measures that you're proposing there are a lot of effective measures and you wouldn't achieve anything at all in terms of calming the scene. While there are likely correct proposals that could result in democratic standards. Some were mentioned here. And that's the election result. So I, obviously with a laugh, would like to mention some facts to you about us small parties. I have x times said, the party I represent is the smallest party to participate in the Croatian Parliament. But gentlemen, in four terms. In 4 mandates, 4 people were written in the Croatian Assembly as representatives in the first two mandates of the Rijeka Democratic Union and the other two of the Primorje-Gorski Alliance. So based on something that continuity of four choices is happening. Therefore, we do not think of ourselves as determining state policy. But we do think that we made our contribution to what was called the other day from this pay phone a democracy in Croatia that was developing in the continuity of the years, that we made our contribution to what the other day here was called the significant reform capacity that this Croatia is expressing, and that we are really special now in these times that Croatia is really modernising, is going at one point someone who has their contribution at the level of knowledge and what it has concentrated in these small parties has and gives. About us having these little parties that you thought we were scared of representing somewhere else where you can't cross the thresholds about it then, that's something else, we won't be offended now. But in my county, there's a noun in most local self-government units to cross the threshold and be in municipal councils and cities. And for us, it's a routine. We're participating, we built our end quite well. We have a permanent electoral body and that's what Mr. Cain said and we know by election how many people vote for us. You know. I'll just tell you that in the town of Delnice, that little PGS beat all the other ten councilmen, and everyone else has five. So ask yourself if we represent the interests of the citizens of Gorski Kotar and whether they will vote for us again next time. In the city of Krk, we hold the power of absolutely 3 mandates. We have 34 members in the city of Krk. On Monday, we presented a national programme. We've met with the leadership and we've established exactly that. 34 people from every village around the city of Krk, on one principle that is much more modern than anyone thinks they should have a membership card of a thousand 765, perhaps even forged. We know some parties that had hundreds of thousands and we know how it went. So, really talk about it, mentioning that someone is a ficus, that they have a ficus and a flag are your words and that they should introduce order. And after that, I decided that I would make it a little harder to comment this time because the introduction of order looks like work, order, discipline, I could say a German proverb that's even more radical than what frees a man, so when we introduce order, we'll free a man. That's the time behind us. I am personally disappointed with you as proposing because I thought that the reform capacity reflected on our party and that you really made a democratic step. But now they'd be parties in your turn. After that, maybe the associations, so that I don't now imply as far as I can go after that, so that they don't go back to maybe the time when we measured the height of the corn. We're not going back to that, gentlemen. These times we remember, we know when and who measured the height of the corn in this country, and we know that it now presents itself as democracy. This is why we have the right to talk about it because you've been laughing at us for the last few days and telling us how we're going to disappear and how you're going to do it. Well, gentlemen, I'm sure you don't. Just in the end another one. I'll see you in VIII. the electoral unit, see you in 36 municipalities and cities of the Primorje-Gorski County where you will measure your election result and compare it with ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84080	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84081	First of all, I must warn you, Mr. President, that he's starting to insult the MPs, he's starting to insult me for nothing. The point of action of the rightdoers is the Homeland War if you didn't know. We have participated in the defence of Croatia, we do not know about others, but the outcome of today's generation of rights is the Homeland War and do not insult it. Beware of dangerous words. No one threatened you, no one laughed at you in the sense that your party would disappear, we never officially told anyone, we just said that we should think that those who didn't, have no council mandates. You have, I didn't say that you don't have council mandates. But there are many political parties that have no council mandates at all. That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84082	It's a little more temperamental. ... You warned your colleague Ivanis earlier about hurting the Rules of Procedure, don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A party was founded in the Czech Republic one city, Bžjavica, a bar according to the novel Jaroslav Hasek, a party of moderate progress on the borders of the law, has the best. For the club HNS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84083	Thank you, Mr. President. It's hard to believe, actually, that someone really wants this. It is clear to me that I can accept that from the Croatian party the rights came from such freely I can say, an insubstantial initiative. I don't understand how the government supported that initiative, which it would. In fact, one thing tells me in favor of the fact that the supplication of such a proposal came from the government. For a while ago, the government spokesman Mr. Macek made it clear and loud about who should be involved in politics in this country, who has two cars, two houses, 50,000 euros, so someone has shaped it, others who have failed to achieve it. Now here comes a proposal that will tell us who is organized to deal with politics. The one who manages to raise 5,000 people. Whoever collects 4000 990s, he cannot deal with politics, he does not meet any democratic requirement to deal with politics but only when he raises 5 thousand people. And what about our Constitution that declares politics right and free, not obligation? Right and free. What about the liberal democracy we all swear to more or less? What about human rights? The next step is obviously a question of who should be involved in public affairs at all. So who should deal with what NGOs are dealing with today? Well, I guess there's going to be some reasonable border of two, three thousand people who can't get everybody involved in public affairs, so it's not for everyone to have every woman on the payroll come up with a plan, and now she'd be doing some kind of public work. People are concerned about the rights of Croatian citizens who can organize themselves as they do and who are organised because they like it, not because we have allowed it or not allowed it from this House. To Croatian citizens who and this Assembly have organised it as they have organised it. Now the rules of the game must of course exist. But the rules of the game are controlled by Mr. Palaric. So if someone is unable to collect, well that he has come, gather the assembly of his party once a year, if he is unable to fulfil the obligations he has made to himself by the same standards, if he is unable to do so, then the state authority will disband him nicely. And if that's not what the state body is doing, so let's not make up another law non-democratic, totalitarian law to cover what the state authority didn't do. Among other arguments that this is an unimaginative law is the fact that if this law were accepted in the Croatian Parliament, no party who does not have 4000 999 plus presidents could go to the next election, but any independent list with 100 signatures could come out. 100 signatures go to the election. But if you want to have a stamp on the party, then 4000 is 999 plus the president. And there are regional parties in Croatia that we talked about, but there are also local parties, parties founded in small towns, municipalities, neighborhoods, there is in the minister's party, they're founded by the boys, they're 20, 50, I don't know how many, they've collected a hundred signatures and they're regularly going to local elections. Which times they pass, which times they don't cross the threshold. But it's their right to be politically organized. Let's not make that right impossible, because it's impossible, I don't think the HDZ has 5,000 members either, I don't know, but definitely no one else does. Let's not make it impossible for people to do so, so if you want human rights, not just constitutional law. We heard in the explanation that it's time to clean up, clean up the political space. That's right. Political space needs to be cleared, but only through the activities of the democratic institutions and democratic mechanisms of the Republic of Croatia. In no way should we ban people in Parliament, ban them from doing anything they want to do and want to do and what is not illegal. To ban them so that there must be such a crowd of 5,000 people who today are impossible except for four or five parties in Croatia. The Croatian People's Party is not in this society. We have even in some counties more than 5,000 members. It's not about the party. It's a principle that definitely cannot be accepted. All in all, this bill is unacceptable for political, ethical and I must say aesthetic reasons. That's what people don't do.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84084	For aesthetic reasons? In 18 and 25, it was time to report for 10 minutes of discussion. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84085	Well, here you go, Mr. President! The great Democrats says our law is totalitarian and non-sustainable. So do you know from the experience of the countries of the European Union, do you know that in Norway they're looking for 15 grand? So what democracy do you mean? Then are they totalitarian... democratic when they have such solutions legally, when they address the issue of political action with them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So don't say anything. And don't tell us HDZ gave us a proposal so we can go with it. Well, we're not going to the President's office for our own reasons. We have our own opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84086	Okay. State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84087	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Well, I've volunteered to deny multiple repeated claims that the Central State Office is not working in a legitimate manner with regard to the conduct of the Register of Political Parties. I strongly reject that. The register of political parties is led to the last line under the law that is in force. It's one of the most serious offices in the office. I personally make sure that these jobs are done neatly, as far as registering is concerned, as it has terrible consequences for the country's political life. And I have to inform you that we have a large number of parties that have been registered deleted from the Register when the conditions for their erasure have been met. And it's no problem to gather a congregation with 100 people, a large majority who are now registered parties doing it neatly, and we're careful that when the time comes, when they haven't sat down, when they haven't fulfilled their legal obligation, then we get out of the register. Otherwise, the Register of Political Parties is public. He's on our website. page. Anyone can check what's in there as well as many of the other registers we run. And that's one of the contributions to the transparency of the work of the state administration. So, once again, I refuse to insinuate that we do not act by law and that we do not apply the law in the part where a political party that has not held the assembly twice as long as it is necessary, as provided for in the Statute, is to be deleted in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84088	Thank you. The HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Pukleš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84089	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor! The Croatian Party of Retired Party Club will not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Political Parties for a number of very simple reasons. In fact, the very word that we adopted is multiparty as a system, the word multiparty in itself says everything. That there are more parties. Well, we can't accept the thesis that is sometimes heard, so not just sometimes, but often that Croatia is enough 4 or 5 or 6 parties and that the rest are unnecessary. It just can't be accepted. Furthermore, we hold that it does not matter how many members a party has but how many votes it receives, either in the local elections or in parliamentary elections. I think that's the point of every party being there. Well, that's something to be appreciated. Furthermore, the entry here is said within 6 months, etc. I mean, if you're willing to look at it, you can't create a party that can't be done overnight. It takes a long time for one party to be established from the existence of the idea of its equipment, structure, programme design, marketing processing, etc. Therefore, there are simply some things in this proposal that I cannot go through. Next, the question of the list to be delivered as evidence. So, please, who's going to guarantee that this list is true? Who's going to guarantee it? And we can have a list and names and access cards, but who's going to check to see if all those members paid their membership fee? Because if you didn't pay the membership fee, then you're not a member. Furthermore, what about existing parties that, or any other party, we don't single out, which in the course of, say, the actions of this law lose this number of memberships? Who will follow them and what will they do with them? Therefore, it is our view that this law is unacceptable and that it means a step back for a multiparty. I would like to add immediately that the Croatian Party of Retirement has no problem with the application of this law, because the number of members in our party far exceeds this minimum here. But let's stick to some of the principles that we think we should give our position here. And we won't accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84090	Thank you. The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84091	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! For us at the HSS Club, the debate on the Political Party Act is an important debate. A topic that should have been serious for us, when I say seriously, then I think of something different than it is today, not at this point in the measurement of this proposal by the club HSP, perhaps at various levels, but of course this debate was to be held here in the Croatian Parliament. Why? So what is Croatia's experience from independence to this day? In that time, is the fact that there are over 100 of them from past experiences of relations that rule on the Croatian political scene, the concentration of political parties. Is it natural, reasonable, to read democratically, the problems that are adapted in every democratic society to new times and demands that stand in that time. Democracy as well as knowledge, research and almost every other human and social discipline developed, adapted and spread. Of course she's sensitive. It is highly sensitive, so it has extremely strong instruments and institutions that need to support the stability of every democratic system. However, the facts in Croatia suggest that it is necessary to do so in this part of a certain democratic step are very clear. I will not say that the number of political parties is too large or too small. I'm not going to say it because I think it's a democratic leap to have independent lists in the way of this or that. That it just might sometimes not like any political party that's a fact. But I don't think there's anything to worry about. Here I will talk about what needs to be concerned and what concerns and in serious debates in the European Parliament. That's almost 10 times the debate. And the debate was about what is today's relationship on the European, political market between particular and representative democracy. Which one's better? Is she particular or this representative? When I speak to a representative, I mean a parliamentary democracy that has its own precisely prescribed political actions within the framework of political parties. Or the majority form of the accepted form of democracy in Europe. Unfortunately, particular democracy has been taking a very strong place with us lately. Of course, she's hard to tell. It is grouped equally in the coverage of individual parties, but it also finds new forms that threaten representative democracy in nature. Representative democracy as the right of people and citizens. Thus, the dangers that exist in every democratic society can lead to various forms that are all but democratic. Or I'll say it even better. They're all just not the ones who are in the interests of the citizens of our Croatian society. Is it possible to have a good relationship between particular and representative democracy? In Croatia, we allowed the full width of political action. Our constitution is completely liberal in that sense. He has no limitations. But it would be demagogue if I said that we at the HSS Club don't think that certain restrictions should exist. That it should exist not to defend itself, defend citizens from democracy but to protect citizens from those who through democracy want to bring them something they don't want. Therefore, the restrictions that are possible in line with good democratic practice are welcome in any case in the Law on political parties. I don't think they should clear the premises of these or those. That they need to solve left or right. They are of course welcome to level the overall political space, political action in Croatia. I must say that not only is it liberal but it is inadmissible in Croatia. It is unacceptable to establish and register certain political parties that are in line with the existing Law on Political Parties. And I'll tell you which parties are these? So around the HSS, almost everyone in one county founded their own party. Each was called the Croatian Peasant Workers, Croatian Peasant People, Croatian Peasant Stjepana Radića, Croatia, everyone who thought of it, everyone founded their peasant party. To what end? To enlarge the democracy and liberal progress of Croatian society so as not to perhaps close the space for the political action of the two, I will not tell the three of them what kind of persons. Is there a freedom of political action for this? Do those who have spoken of no need for restriction feel that there should be no direct breach of Article 11(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? Therefore, we are for a serious review of the Law on political parties. We are for a serious debate that must in no way harm the level of democracy we have. But society must not be in some way isolated and put into another plan so that it will not harm anyone who cannot be harmed in nature. Because if someone tries to enter the Croatian Parliament in a row, the City Council, and they never go after him, then does he also have the legitimacy of political action? Can this legitimacy be triggered by 10 members or 50 members who gather at daily dinners? Of course he can't. Legitimity is given by citizens, only by citizens. Members of the party shall be proof that such legitimacy can be respected. The HSS, of course, is not afraid of the upper limit. As far as we're concerned, the limit can be any one of you. But that there should be change and that there should be observed difficulties that stop real representative democracy in the Republic of Croatia from being linked to the needs of this society and with citizens it is normal. Of course, when we choose another form of way we sit in these benches and when we say that MPs are elected individually and directly, then we will have gentlemen some new rules of the game. Then we will replace representative democracy with another form of representative democracy. But now we don't have an instrument like that. We don't have an institute. So I'm not for ridicule and I'm not for giving grades that can hurt seriousness before all of our job as a representative, and I'm not for the seriousness of this proposal that we're discussing. I think this should absolutely be a political consensus. I think there are reasons that can reconcile all the views, provided that she leaves her speakers during their presentation and that we really need to deal with this aspect. I agree and that election year is not the best time to change the rules of the game. I agree absolutely. But I think it's a good idea for this topic to open. It is good to bring about it as soon as the public debate is extended and through the public debate all the shortcomings it has, which are to be recorded and repaired. And that those institutions that know some societies that are more democratically perfect than us but those societies that are more perfect than us have their own perfect problems. Because the ball is always round as footballers say. Who knows how to put it in, then it's naked. Who doesn't know he doesn't score. It's always simple. That's how politics works. We therefore believe that it is really necessary to carry out a serious objective public debate on this subject that a political consensus is necessary. I am sure that colleagues from the HSP club did not intend to have any political parties acting in this House mutilated by this proposal. And here we are, at the HSS Club, making a proposal to open a debate and to come up with a complete Law on Political Parties that should really evaluate these irregularities that occur on a manipulative and speculative basis both through Article 11 and through some other article and, of course, to pass one law that will be in the interest of Croatian citizens but which will ensure the even development of Croatia as serious political and economic countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84092	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84093	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, this proposal, which is ahead of us, is a fruit of good desire, a good intention to regulate political life in our country in a more modern way. However, because of the obvious desire for it to be arranged, certain nomotechnical inaccuracies, inaccuracies, and of course they cannot be as many experts as there are good ones in our Central State Office. Certainly, the number of political parties in the Republic of Croatia should be reduced exactly according to the number of founders, according to the number of those who wish to engage in political life and share just the responsibility for their own development and progress. How serious the proposal is also confirmed by the Croatian Government with its amendments, with its proposals, and also by the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, which should create a good final proposal that would accept this time indeed the majority in the Parliament, regardless of the current relationship of forces, because it is necessary to seek to improve Croatian laws and regulations, to take advantage of the knowledge of all those who consider themselves responsible for their own development. It is also necessary to say that the current number of political parties is too large. Not because we should be banned. But it just happens that because of this ability of political parties, there is no serious political progress and the desire for economic development but only the creation of new parties is the result that some of them could not be presidents in their own parties, so they seduced a number of people and founded new parties. I believe that the proposer will accept the amendments of the Government and the amendment of the Croatian Democratic Community club and will indeed be the final proposal that can be applied exactly as it says. Thank you and state, Central State Office, because this also shows how much we are missing another ministry that will deal with the development of state administration, local and regional self-government, based on our future right on the statutes of Dalmatian, primarily Dalmatian cities that have been very precise about relations with central authorities, among themselves, with criminal provisions that have all been applied. That is why I believe it will be an additional effort in our next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84094	Thank you. And the final review, on behalf of the promoter of the club HSP, respected representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84095	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the end I wanted to thank first of all everyone who took part in the debate. Which just shows that it was more than necessary to open the debate on both the party system in Croatia and the way political parties are registered, their action and their functioning. I am truly sorry on behalf of the HSP and HSP club as parties that some colleagues and some political parties recognized in this bill that finally passed the first reading received the support of the Croatian Parliament for the second reading to prepare the final draft of the law, that according to the assessments of a few colleagues from opposition parties, which surprised me even more that the bill was totalitarian, non-democratic and dangerous. These words dominated the views, the statements of individual club representatives, which is truly totally unacceptable regardless of whether the law will be adopted or not, on behalf of the Right Party, I absolutely reject all these qualifications that went towards totalitarian, non-democrat and dangerous, because I think that is exactly the kind of approach the debate in the Croatian Parliament that it is essentially totalitarian, that it is exclusive, that it is non-democratic and that it is dangerous. So I wouldn't want it to be a deaf talk. So on several repeated lunches and qualifications that such a bill is undemocratic on behalf of our club, a colleague of Kovacevic stood up and I do not know how many times he repeated that this is a practice that is almost valid in all the Member States of the European Union and not just in them. And that in each of the parties, in each of these countries there are certain parameters, some standards as well as how the political party can be founded. We have these standards today, they say that to register a party would have to be had if I weren't wrong about 100 members. So we just wanted to base the years of experience we had as a party and not just us as a party, I believe most of you as a party, to tighten the conditions for forming, forming and designing a political party. Here, a colleague Markov mentioned something about, a situation that he had with HSS, we can speak similarly in HSP of course, but it wasn't a living motive for what we started this project that we didn't push because it was an election year. We have already had a few attempts with this initiative and I think that it was first handed over in September of last year, so it was not motivated by the elections, and at least it was motivated to bring some parliamentary parties into an uncomfortable call, even after the government gave the amendment for 5 thousand necessary members to register political parties, we really thought that it was a number of members that every parliamentary party in this Croatian Parliament could, with a little bit larger, someone with a little less technical effort could realise and without a problem in accordance with this bill I would say it might not be a choice, cleaning up the political scene, but some kind of its stabilisation and the lack of new parliamentary elections in a really short-term environment at least when the work of the political parties of election promotion is being monitored. So we know from election to parliamentary elections what awaits us next time. So we know ourselves I would say and mock and mock so who will actually watch the circus that we have on Croatian TV where there are 100 parties in the elections, where there is really no way at the time that in a serious political game we do not know how to face ourselves as an integral political party with a regional party in Croatia, to present their arguments, we may not know our arguments or where to see these differences and minorities perhaps even in the shades between parties that objectively determine the political scene of Croatia. So the slightest intention was not to put us in an awkward position for any parliamentary party in Croatia, because we felt that indeed fewer regional parties, conditionally less, were strong parties in their fields. I know PGS is a very strong party in VIII. the electoral unit, as we know, is the strength of the IDS or HDSSB in Slavonia. I therefore believe that these are all parties that could assist in a joint one consensus project to introduce a really small order in this. It's nothing undemocratic, it's nothing totalitarian, and it's nothing dangerous. It is only dangerous for those who experience our policy as a Laddijac and such a relationship with the formation of a political party gives right to all those who view the odios once as political parties in Croatia. Because if we don't do our own best, we who represent almost all of us would say over 90% of the electoral body in Croatian society, so we who are representatives here in the Croatian Parliament should not be surprised that we are rarely as well as... political parties on impact and when it may be justified, and in many cases it is unjust. I have to say that in previous contacts, in the last year's talks, I'm not going to talk about names, I can see that things are not going very well around this law, I've also talked to the leaders and the SDP about this being both leaders and HDZ, and neither has IDS been exclusive about this bill. You know, it didn't exactly look like it's happening around this today, and HSS is finally talking about the need to try something here today. So the diagnosis is really true and I don't think anyone objective can deny it. But just the entry of this law into second reading was an opportunity to see if there was anything more to be done, to fix something in this field to form a political system in Croatia. So we really don't need a rhetoric of the story of totalitarianism, of democracy, of danger, of withdrawing certain statements I don't even know about the measurements of corn etc. You know, my colleague Ivanish, about the measurements on corn, that's a complete fiction. That's what I'm supposed to say, because every once in a while, it's a fiction that says that I used to say that I measured corn in Slavonia. It was never true, but it was embellished as a notorious fact that had nothing to do with anything or I don't know if the passover of the Association of Hos in Rijeka was interpreted in such a way, then it can be seen that way. But the Croatian Party of Rights is a democratic political party which has its political space and its ideas, initiatives, primarily affirmatives in the Croatian Assembly with a large number of laws that we have proposed, and we are really in the last mind of any thought of these which we have here today, qualifications that really have nothing to do with the intensity of our law. And the fact that the law has also entered into another reading and that the government has had some amendments, speaks of the need to regulate this matter. There are a thousand reasons why we should do this, but there are very few reasons why the law and the Priory would refuse to do so. If there are any legal failures, nomotechnics, it's all to be discussed. If there are any if the number is too high a member and that's to be discussed. But the very idea that we should try to make one situation with 108 parties that have succeeded as you have in the Croatian Parliament or someone else for years to stabilise it in some way and that we can commit ourselves to a truly electoral campaign tomorrow, I say both you regionals and us integralists if that is what we can call it. Then it is really necessary that election campaign when it comes to cleaning up from, under quotes, to clean up from everything that makes it difficult for such a kind of communication and makes it more difficult for both you and us to polarise with arguments about the Croatian future that I believe everyone in this Parliament wants it to be better, more prosperous than it is today. We're all on the same assignment, I'd say. Everyone from their own ideological, party positions. But it wouldn't be a good idea to be nice in the perspective of what we've never said. It says here that we've been underestimating some political party lately. Never. I am never in any statement, nor do I know that one of my associates, the official, spoke about this law in a way that any political party in the Croatian Parliament would discredit or that we would humiliate it. Finally, I am in a coalition in Osijek and the county and the city with a regional party. And that shows that it can function that way. And there's no reason for this kind of project that we've proposed to be treated the way that today here has been said by some colleagues in a way that we as a party finally don't deserve. As a club that we have proposed this in the legal, orderly and parliamentary procedure, we have proposed a law which may and may not have to pass, but after 17 years of building Croatian democracy and what the Croatian Party of Rights has done in parliamentary activities, to talk about that this law would have totalitarian hearings, non-democratic, and then in these extracts of some concepts it comes to even in some situations quite inappropriate, even at a time when the Croatian state today lives, in which the Croatian party acts, I do not think it is fair or correct. Finally, the law probably won't go as we suggested. I'll remind us all when the election campaign starts again and we'll have what I have again. But once again, I will return to what the HSS colleagues said, the fact is that both the HSS and the HSP have been victims of the Law on Political Parties for years and the non-implementation of the Law, which is Article 11 in which, for various needs of inter-party accounts and everything else, they cannot be categorical and say contrary to the law, but they have legally registered parties of almost identical title, similar to HSP or HSS, which is also a non-democratic form of political action. That's undemocratic. I'll mention it, but here, I don't think it would turn out that that's why we're bringing it in, we've had a big political fight with Mr... It's a parasite we got. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A political and legal battle. Two o'clock... The procedures at the administrative and the time of government and the coalition authorities on the left and at the time of the HDZ government, we received both disputes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I won't even tell you how in the election we affirmed it and proved it. And after all, there was a registered party named HSP in 1861. It's the same name of the party. Is that correct, is that democratic? I'm sure he didn't. But I'm saying, it wasn't our motive. The motive was indeed true, honest to stabilise the political scene in Croatia. We think that after 17 years of building Croatian democracy, Croatian society and the Croatian political scene are mature for such a step. Not that this is treated like some kind of non-democracy. And if the assessment that most in Parliament should remain as it is so far, my God, there are hands, they will vote on it and we will act accordingly. He would only appeal that the initiatives that we have given in the Croatian Parliament have never been either totalitarian or non-democratic, and at least it was dangerous. And I am convinced that we have accepted this bill so that it would ultimately be very good for both regional parties and all other parliamentary parties that have been in these 17 years since the '90s. and confirmed here with their work and through their prominent parliamentary representatives, their parties, their programs. And I didn't really see the reason why tonight, tonight, this is how this law would be broken. As for the amendments that have been contributed, therefore the work amendments are acceptable to us. However, this amendment to the Croatian Democratic Community in some way activates the whole situation. I can also understand that this was also part of the political relationship that today is worth both the ruling coalition and the needs of political partners who are similar, which were brought here on this side of the political scene, and we can understand that too. But I would still like Mr. Secretary of State to also state as a representative of the Croatian Government here also to state on behalf of the Government how they view this final amendment and the addition of the Law on Political Parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84096	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84097	Here, I'm correcting... Part of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr Djapic claimed, therefore, that the majority of European countries have similarly arranged this issue, that the analogy... No, there is no such thing as what is important in most of the countries in Europe, which is essential for the registration of political parties, therefore, to enrol in the Court Register, the minutes from the founding assembly, the programme, the Statute and the decision on the establishment should be attached. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In some countries, there is, therefore, not even a number of required limited founders.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84098	And the esteemed representative Ivanish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84099	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try to speak quickly because I'd like to correct a few false allegations. The thesis of Mr Djapic's claim that they were sure that all parliamentary parties would actually support it because it would help them, it cannot be true. We didn't discuss parliamentary parties today. We discussed all the parties in Croatia and this was not a debate that concerned us, 10, 11 parties that we had in Parliament, but all 108 of us. The second thesis that the second reading was an opportunity to repair in good faith what to fix that, that it was on your part. That's not true. Then you would accept the fact that on January 24th in "Vjesnik" the President of the Parliament, who, along the way, made it clear that there could be no retrograde application in Croatia. I have it in the original here and I can give it to you. Had you been in good faith, you would have considered it by the hierarchy of the Parliament and by the hierarchy of right.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84100	What now? Injury of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84101	The injury to the Rules of Procedure is that it hurt a fellow member of Article 209. He didn't say what he was correcting, but he got into a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84102	How did he not say?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84103	And who mentioned you in the debate? Mr. Djapic never mentioned you in the debate. Not a word he said to you in the debate. And what does it fix? And let's give it to the president, we lead, we stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-15-0.u84104	It's not mentioned but, in the explanation it was as in any explanation of correcting an incorrect quote there's always one addition as there is here. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah. I'm closing the debate. Continuing tomorrow with, if assumptions are reached, which means that tomorrow the Committee on Information and Media meets at 9am and discusses points 6 and 7th, which is the appointment of members of the Governing Council of HINA, then we will begin with that point at 9:30. If the Committee doesn't finish work by 9:30 then we'll start with point 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Fundamental Education of Proposer Željko Pavlica. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't understand. What about Minister Vukelic? What's the rush? [[Intruder: On the agenda to put it on.]] All right, ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Since it is not yet the Committee on Information, Information and Media has completed its session then we will skip to point 11: - Proposal for a law on the completion of the Charter of Fundamental Education – Proposer of Representative Željko Pavlic, first reading, P.Z. No. 564, the debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Education, Science and Culture. The legislation isn't? ... It is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This isn't for the board, the other one, okay. You received the report at the session. The government has delivered its opinion. The representative of the proposal, the respected representative Željko Pavlic, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
