ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82435	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I would first of all like to thank you for the support they gave this law in the first reading, of course all discussions on working bodies, representatives clubs and individual debates. This support meant a lot to us because this is the first time we have discussed such a law in the Croatian Parliament. For the first time, a special law on adult education is passed. Explaining the reasons why we proposed the Law on adult education, we pointed to a serious situation in our country and society that stems from the educational structure of the adult population. I remind you when I talk about adult education, then we think about everything more than 15 years old because at that age limit, compulsory education ends. In the educational structure, we speak according to the State Statistics Institute data after the 2001 census because there are no other indicators. Out of 5, of all 15-year-olds, one part of the population did not finish primary school. It's 15.76%, 2.86% never even enrolled in primary school, and the second part ended only primary school, a total of 21.75%. Central education ended about 47% of citizens. And only 7.9% of us have highly educated and slightly more than 5% with higher expertise. With such a low educational level, we cannot build and develop a competitive economy. This government and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports recognized all the seriousness of the problem and set out to overcome it. As early as 2004, we appointed the Committee on adult education, adopted the Strategy for adult education, included experts from Europe and launched a series of activities, including the creation of this law. Explaining why I propose this law, we have pointed to other problems. The fact that we have in practice developed adult education hundreds of institutions that implement thousands of different programs, and we do not have a thorough analysis about it. Does this also have any effect on their employment, on job retention, on the successful search for new jobs, and on a number of other issues we have largely scarce answers. You've highlighted these problems, and you respected gentlemen MPs in your debates. Therefore, it is necessary to pass the Law on adult education. This law should say that adult education is as important to us as education for children and young people, that this is a question of general interest to all of us, that we must take care of this issue both at the level of the state and at the level of units of local self-government. However, when we talk about the systematic and organised policy and the development of adult education, then the authorities, social partners and education partners should also be involved, so to share responsibility with all of them. As a state, we must send clear signals to citizens whom we will strengthen and encourage them to engage permanently in learning processes, to gain new knowledge permanently, to master new skills and abilities and in order to employ them and to actively participate in the development of our society and when they meet their very personal needs. As a state, we must send clear signals to employers that without competent workers they will not ensure their competitiveness on the domestic market and even less on the international market or markets, which is their priority objective. The policy of retaining incompetent workers does not lead to business success. The more competent workers it is.and the choice of each employer is greater. Therefore, concrete measures and activities of the state including financial support should contribute to the development of awareness that investment in education is the most profitable investment. The state ensures and through the adoption of this law will ensure greater systematic financing of adult education. This funding will cover those segments which are found to be priorities, i.e. of common interest for all areas in the country. and at the same time that the investment of state public funds can achieve the necessary expected results. Clearly, the state will not be able to cover all needs. Its specific needs and interests and employers and local, i.e. regional self-government should recognise and ensure for themselves measures to meet those needs in the part in which it will not be covered by State-level measures or may not be sufficiently covered. There have been a lot of speeches on this issue in previous discussions and in the Croatian Parliament during the first reading of the law and in many other discussions we held last year. The issue of harmonisation of the educational offer with the needs of the labour market was often discussed. In line with the requirement for the measures to be taken to be effective and effective in the law, the establishment of a Council on Adult Education is proposed. The Council, which will also be attended by representatives of social partners, employers and trade unions, together with representatives of educational institutions and representatives of ministries, will propose to the Government what means and how much funding should be financed from the state budget. It should be said that we in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in this term have started a series of reform processes relating to all levels of the education system from pre-school to higher education and adult education. It is especially important that we have inauguralized a new approach in which, with activities related to individual subsystems, we are developing a Croatian education system as a whole. Therefore adult education and concrete law should be seen in the context of overall changes because we also have basic education and secondary education, especially vocational education, and it is equally important to open up training opportunities in higher education. What has been done in this area of vocational education? We have started a permanent process of reviewing occupations, and a hundred programmes have already been abolished that have become obsolete and do not meet the needs of the labour market. Of course, this is still being done and this process will not be stopped. We have started to create a national qualification framework, a project to define the overall education system in which at certain levels the role of a particular part of the system is recognised, determines horizontal and vertical passivity within the system, and what is very important is the outcomes of learning. This will help us to identify the knowledge, skills and abilities that a person acquires when he completes a particular education programme. This will remove existing bad practice to repeat the same content in different programmes, starting several times from the beginning, which has been very often disheartening to adults, so they gave up enrolment and after enrollment. The already started procedure for the adoption of this law has contributed to the fact that adult education with pre-school, primary and secondary education has been included in a standard redefine project for which a special council for the pedagogical standard is appointed in September last year which works very intensively. We are counting on all the specificities of adult education, we are also counting on the difficulties created by the lack of current status indicators and also by the insufficient or inadequate solutions that we have in existing regulations, all of which makes it difficult to work on a professional team that prepares standards in adult education, but we firmly believe that this team will also offer good solutions in its proposal, which will, of course, be checked in public debates before sending proposals to the government, that is, this High House. It is known that we have established a National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education in which we are developing quality monitoring systems and again we are talking about the entire education system. Of course, in adult education we also have a large area of informal education and learning. We have made a shift in our area, it is no longer just general formal education and education for interest, which is only the first step to enter the labour market. This shift was made according to the acquisition of new knowledge, skills and abilities such as digital literacy, communication skills and skills, entrepreneurship, the preservation of health and the environment and a number of other areas that we are now opening. It's a big step that has already been made, it's a new educational paradigm, a concept of life's learning in which the right to learn each individual as one of the fundamental human rights is exercised. In the final proposal of the law, respected MPs and MPs, we have introduced certain changes based on the debate that was held on the previous reading, so let me tell you briefly what it is that is all accepted. In accordance with Article 2(1) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, In Article 10, paragraph 2, which you have warned of, the 9th is completed, that if the provider does not need a full-time teacher to hire him for a certain number of hours. So make a deal with him on the act. In Article 18, the increased number of days of possible educational leave from 3 to 7 you have also proposed. Mostly the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Article 22(2) of the Chamber of the Council on Adult Education has amended and now states: "The candidates for members and presidents of the Council shall be determined by the Minister on the basis of proposals submitted by the heads of the central authorities of the state administration, the institution for adult education, particularly professional organisations, the coordination of trade unions and employers’ associations which have the status of the social partner by public invitation." Article 23 on the Agency for the Education of Adults has been amended. You asked to define the activity and business of the agency. We've also accepted that. Furthermore, in Article 26 which speaks of funding from the budget of local self-government units, we have changed the syntagm of "ensuring" and now it reads: "can be provided". Article 28 in conjunction with Article 26 was also corrected in the first reading, and those comments were made by the parent board, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and individual representatives, the provision under which programmes are financed by the public tender, while financing investments, investment maintenance and material costs are implemented directly by the founders according to the institutions which they have established, which is of course quite logical. Finally, criminal provisions were introduced which had not previously been in the proposal for a Law on adult education. Here are the changes that we have made on the basis of the proposals from the discussions both on committees and in the parliamentary debate. I hope that by accepting all your remarks we have made a final proposal for a law that is truly good and that is indeed acceptable, I hope that you will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82436	Thank you. The committees? For education, science and culture, the president of the Committee, Honored Representative Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82437	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 30th session of 25 January this year, the Final Proposal for the Law on Adult Education. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The Committee paid particular attention to this bill in its first and second readings, considering the educational structure of the Croatian National Corps, such a law is more than necessary. The Committee also noted that it is very good that adult education is finally included in the system, so it does not stay out of the system but fits into the system. Some issues such as these have been proposed and discussed in the debate. the position of foreign language schools and other companies dealing with adult education in relation to the system proposed by the law. He will then assign adult education agencies, then the question of the motivation of users of the adult education system and employers on educational leave. Next, the need to increase decentralised budgetary resources in view of additional commitments and tasks for local and regional (regional) government units. Next issue of forms of professional training of Andragogian employees, etc. In the context of the proposed solutions referred to in Article 28, it has been pointed out and agreed with the proposing representatives that the institution of a public tender as a means of financing adult education institutions should not lead to the fact that, in practice, the units of local and regional (regional) self-government are conditional upon the achievement of the programme and the functioning of the adult education institution itself. This is especially true for those parts of the programme which are of no doubt of general interest as if the institution for adult education corrects the consequences, the fact that a large number of persons in Croatia do not even have completed primary school. The Committee assessed that there was an open systemic issue of direct stimulation of adult education as users' rights, i.e. the participants of these programmes. After the debate was held, the Committee concluded by a majority of votes, 6 for and 1 abstentions. The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on adult education, in the form prepared by the proposer, along with the following amendment. The amendment reads: "Article 23 adds a new paragraph 3 which reads: The Agency shall carry out tasks and tasks of the National Agency for the implementation of integrated programmes of lifelong learning,... "and youth programs." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Explanation. In its opening statement, the Proposer highlighted the position of the Agency for Adult Education and, among other things, stated that the Agency has a mobility centre and EU programmes. This means that the Agency for adult education, its Mobility Centre and EU programmes will be a national agency for the implementation of integrated lifelong learning programmes and youth programmes. Namely, the European Commission requires each country involved in these programmes and benefits from European funds to have a National Agency, an independent non-profit institution that fulfils the tasks and conditions of design, financial operations and spatial, material and personnel conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82438	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? For gender equality? The president of the board, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82439	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 42nd session, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on adult education. In its opening presentation, the Committee shall take note of the differences between the solutions proposed by the Final Proposal for the Law on adult education compared to the draft law. It has been indicated that this Law will contribute to employees and employers to maintain competitiveness throughout their lives and make a profit, thus making many of the old-fashioned programmes available on the market more redefined and modernised. In the debate, the Committee specifically referred to the comments made by this Committee which the applicant did not accept or explain. The Committee, in its debate on the Proposal for a Law on Adult Education, stressed the need to align the same for the Law on Gender Equality. The Committee considers that the proposed Article 2(1) laying down the principles on which adult education should be based should include gender equality as one of those principles. The Committee welcomes the increase in the minimum duration of educational leave from 3 days to at least 7 days, but continues to believe that the exercise of this right will benefit rare employees. In particular, given the economic potential of both employees and one part of employers. The more the exercise of the right to educational leave is determined by agreement between employees and employers, and the employer is not subject to the obligation to pay the employee during the educational leave. Notwithstanding the potential for collective bargaining between trade unions and employers, it is certain that most employers, in accordance with Article 19(1), will not be ready to settle the costs of staff education. In fact, the practice over the past few years suggests that most employers in Croatia are not prepared to pay the costs of education for their employees except when it comes to top-ranking experts or board members. In the debate, the opinion given that public services should pay more attention to professional training and education of officials and subsistences in the context of the provided budget, not to spending far more money on intellectual and similar services than on education of civil servants and subsistence. After the discussion, members and members of the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on adult education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82440	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82441	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club is convinced that this law is tragically late and that, in fact, in most of its provisions, it is sadly declared. Let me explain. Tragically late. We have been taught for 30 years that Croatia will very simply, very easily fit into all possible world trends, in this case the European Union, because we have, above and above all, a very well-educated workforce and we will do very well in this. Now the data that stands in the light of this Law tells us otherwise. The numbers speak differently. So let me repeat, it's not burning to repeat those numbers, those numbers need to be remembered. 105 thousand 332 adult Croats have never exceeded the school threshold. 580,000,739 citizens of the Republic of Croatia went to primary school but did not finish it. 801 thousand 168 citizens of the Republic of Croatia have completed school-based only, has not moved on. A total of 1 million 486 thousand 879 citizens, therefore, 50% of the adults of the Republic of Croatia, 4 and a half million, about 3 million adults, 3 and something, almost 50% of the adults of the Republic of Croatia are functionally illiterate. We have been waiting with this Law and, in general, with the arrangement of this whole area, it seems to me to be significant too long and now we have to take all measures, all steps, as difficult and expensive as it is to fix this situation quickly. In 2 years, we will enter the European Union, as stories go, to Europe of knowledge, to Europe of new technologies, to Europe that competes with Japanese, Americans and others. Like this, with such a qualification of labour, very difficult. That's why it's tragic that the law is late. Tragic is another fact. Data from the reasons of this Law say that just over 2% of the adult population is involved in adult education. Now we're thinking what's 2%, actually? It's not the ones with no elementary school, not the ones with an unfinished elementary school, not the ones with a finished elementary school, not the ones with a high school. They don't have the money for it. It's those who already have some kind of higher education, relatively decent pay that education can pay. And why is that? Because this Law too, and that's the situation of adult education, I can, I stress, I can, I don't have to, I can pay everyone. He can pay for the state, he can pay for the local self-government, he can pay for the employer, he can pay for the student, but no one has to pay for it. Now that no one has to, then most often it belongs to the individual himself, and which one of the students can? Well, he who has a decent salary. A decent salary does not have this million and a half, but perhaps some 200 or 300 thousand in this second group who, according to the same data, have completed a higher, higher, or high professional training, and now have a decent salary and can pay for further education. The state should give clear signals to take care of it. That's true. You should give clear signals. How does the state give clear signals? The state makes clear what it wants to give to tax policy. There are no states of another kind of traffic lights that include red, green, yellow, blue, which already do. The state has a tax policy. In the Income Tax Act, there is no possibility of acquittal for schooling. If you make a new prosthetic, if you go to the spa treatment, you can show it as a cost, but if you go to college to pay the tuition it doesn't. Also, an employer, an employer, if he finances "Dinamo" or "Cybona" it costs him, but if he finances the education of his workers, it does not cost him. Now what kind of message, what clear signal does the state give? Recently, counterpart Kramaric proposed a special law, i.e. amendments to the Income Tax Act, where these costs would enter into the possibility of tax exemptions. It's been rejected in this House and it's some kind of message. Today, the newspaper says that a new system of state scholarships is being prepared for every other student in Croatia to pay tuition, each other. They're the same adults, aren't they? Some of them are educated on their own, part of them are educated by parents, but whether I pay that tuition or his parents pay him neither he nor his parents are exempt from the tax on that amount, i.e. That amount cannot be shown as some kind of tax card cost. There are, of course, huge problems in adult primary education, so a total of 680,000 people who need to finish primary school plus those new ones that are generated every year that don't finish primary school on time, so they should be included in the system. For such a large amount of participants, if by some accident everyone went into the system, this system was not trained, it was definitely not trained, especially not as far as personnel are concerned, but then, of course, as far as finances are concerned. At the level of secondary education, there is a mass of inaccuracies even in this text of the Law. It is said that education for professions, it is a secondary education, is it possible that the education of adults for occupation can be attended by educators who are already with andragogical education, that trainers, instructors and similar persons can participate. What does that mean? At every level of education, one who educates should be more than one who is educated, except in a doctoral study, of course, which is the top of that pyramid. Moreover, for complete education in Croatia, all laws provide for high professional training, for primary and secondary education. This opens up the possibility that in institutions of a different type people who are simply not formally up to it, who have virtually the same or lower equipment than those who are going to educate tomorrow. I don't think that guarantees quality or gives these people the opportunity to actually catch the educational standard they're going to need tomorrow. I'm personally familiar with the situation in higher education, so I can say a few words about it. According to this data here, highly educated in Croatia and from the adult population there are 11.91, 12%, for example, the standard that has already been caught on average by the European Union is about 18.19%, some non-European countries of the United States and some countries in the Far East have already gone far. How do you do that in Croatia? It's part of adult education. Obviously, the network of today’s universities is not enough and there is not enough capacity to bear that burden. This was best seen last year and last year when the children of volunteers of the Homeland War were enrolled under special regulations, there was a collapse at some institutions of type of the Faculty of Political Sciences in Zagreb, the Faculty of Law and some other institutions, and only 20% more students were enrolled than is normally enrolled. To catch this standard we would have to double the yearly enrolment in higher education, double it. Of course, it can only be achieved by a different network, a new network wide. A network of universities and high schools can play a key role here. Let's not kid ourselves, those 20% or 25% of the seniors in the United States didn't all end up in Harvard, Yale,... and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They finished colleges in Idaho, strange junior colleges or community colleges, but they ended something, they all got some chance. All the ambitious have been given some kind of a chance. Let us give such a chance both to our adult population and to the population that is regularly passing through the education system. There are already rumors, news, statements from the ministry that the system network is over. The universities that were built were, the universities that were made were, the state schools that were founded were, no longer. Today we have a much wider network than we had 5 or 10 years ago, but this network for these numbers that we want to reach, that network is too narrow, too small and underfunded. We can't be schizophrenic. On the one hand, express the desire and the will to capture all these standards. It's inevitable to catch them, otherwise we won't be able to manage in society. And on the other hand, do a restriction at the level of top scientific institutions and nothing below. This is all if it happens to be a turn. One system policy should include education practically, applicatively. So, really for the job of vocational education and those who are not ready for top scientific work and who tomorrow will not manage this country, but will manage their company somewhere in Korenica, or Valpovo or wherever. The law is all about a great declaration and it says what we would like but the right definitions are spoken of by tax policy and budgets, both the state budget and the local budget. Everything else puts us in danger of just fooling around. We did everything we could and we didn't really God know what we did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82442	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82443	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will correct the inaccuracy of colleagues where he claimed that only 2% of adults are educated and requalified because they pay for it themselves from their personal budgets, i.e. from your profits. In fact, it is clear that the Ministry of Family and Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity sets out and plans and spends 30 million kuna on adult education and retraining of Croatian defenders. Also the Ministry of Science with 3 and a half million kuna, 11 million and 700 thousand kuna, Ministry of Defence also, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I think these are all the forms that are used today and that are in the budgets of state ministries and support the transformation and education of adults.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82444	The second amendment. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82445	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a respected colleague has been talking about adult education and basic adult education where I agree with him that the big problem is this particular population, said that the system at this point is not adapted to do this amount of work at once. Well, I don't agree with that because I think that this system and in this law are made possible exactly as well as the popular open schools and primary and secondary schools and everyone who has done this job so far, that they continue to perform precisely because of the greater availability of all those in need of this education. There's another problem with that education. How do you motivate people to enter the primary education process because they are older people of life?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82446	A SDP club, a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82447	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! And we at the SDP club hold that we are very late with this law in Croatia. Just look at our comments already, and in our right reading when we said we had a national education strategy, that we had an action plan. So this action plan, which was adopted in 2004, envisioned that this law that was passed in the second reading today in January 2005 and the first reading we had there somewhere in June if I wasn't wrong. I think he was somewhere on June 1st, 2006. In addition, we do not have a statistical follow-up of adult education which should also be almost there in March 2005. Then some info. Points to promote adult learning. So all that is finally written and explained by the bill. However, regardless of how late we are, as a SDP club, we also welcomed the adoption of this law in the first reading. We believe that it is necessary because we are all together if we are not wrong and in our first reading, we stressed the need for the adoption of a law that would sort of regulate adult education as part of a single educational system and concept of lifelong learning. In fact, we all like to point out over and over again that every employee, and whoever is just looking for a job, must actually be ready for permanent learning, to be perfected, to acquire additional knowledge and skills because that is what the labour market requires, and should not only be a mere phrase, but rather an necessity which, unfortunately, other countries have recognised long before us and adopted long before us. So today, we all repeat this fact that in Croatia only a little more than 2% of adults are involved in lifelong learning as opposed to European Union countries where this average is moving slightly more than 10%. Or maybe we should mention our first Slovenian neighbors where that number is almost 16%. What we warn at the SDP club is also the fact that we in Croatia are always inclined to believe that a law will change certain applicable habits and behaviours, that it will also change the existing incoordination in the entire education system. The first reading also pointed out that it was also warned that, in parallel with this Higher Education Act, we should have actually passed some other regulations and sublegal acts and that this law would be enforceable and would ultimately be brought to life in practice. In fact, however, there will remain a question when we will actually realize that professional competence is only one side of the medal and that it is the other side of literacy and that literacy in the native language, literacy in the foreign language. Of course, today we no longer speak only one foreign language but at least two foreign languages. And that third digital literacy. Of course, the question is, in fact, the quality of the education system that they wanted me to admit or not still doesn't fit the needs of the market and, of course, it's not the one who uses the education system, it's the one who created this system. Web. The portal "My Business" carried out a research that covered a sample of a thousand 501 employees and 45 employers in which for example employers were surveyed and singled out what areas they consider most needed in the field of professional education for their employees, so almost 70% of them were highlighted by communication and presentation skills, somewhere about 56% of their leadership skills, 53% of their sales skills, language 44%, teamwork 49%, etc. What are the professions surveyed by employers that their employees are not sufficiently educated through the education system? For example, when it comes to administrative jobs, only 13% of employers believe that their employees are trained through such an education. When it comes to economics, then 41% thinks that the education they received from their employees has not trained them or even hurt them more than they benefit from. When it comes to technical professions, some about 50% of employers consider their employees to be excellent or very well trained for the workplace and this percentage increases to 65% when it comes to other engineering professions, for example. Perhaps these data would be convenient to look at and appreciate when it comes to our education programs in general. Otherwise, perhaps we should say here and remind all of us that, for example, the tourist season is about to begin. And we will probably listen again with the beginning of the tourist season from all sides that we do not have enough educated, quality personnel of different profiles to meet the needs of our tourism, and then it will turn out that we are already year after year talking about a lack of, for example, a waiter who will speak at least one foreign language, a lack of quality maids or maids. Well, then it turns out we've been saying something for years. On the other hand, for years then we have been training people who are obviously not good enough quality or competitive on the labour market without mentioning not only foreign languages but also the communication skills they should have, but at the same time we will talk again about the estimated 30,000 employees of seasonal workers and those employed in black. So I'm asking the question, what's this all about? When we talk about the specific provisions of this law, we at the SDP Club welcome in some way the return of the seven-day leave provided for for the needs of additional education because this was so proposed in that original proposal, not the one we had in the first reading but in the first proposal that went to the government because it was proposed by the experts who participated in the drafting of this proposal. However, we at the SDP Club are concerned about the possibility of agreements on the exercise of the right to educational leave, which, in fact, the worker and employer should establish by agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Article 18 of the final proposal of the law. Of course, there is now the possibility and role of the union whether trade unions can collectively, through the negotiation and conclusion of collective agreements, fight for this right. I'm going to re-apply on behalf of the club for this research of the portal "My job" because it's actually convenient and maybe the same could help when it's negotiated. Namely, when asked by employers whether they believe that they invest enough in the education of their employees more than half or 51% believe they invest but not enough. 22% of surveyed employers do not invest in additional education but believe that their employees would need that education and 22% believe that they invest exactly as much as they need it. And it would also be useful to get this information from this survey where when we talk about the willingness and desire of employees to work on their additional training and education, then 86% of respondents are willing to participate in education and is willing to participate in the cost of their education when their employer would pay the rest, with them willing to participate with about 1/3 of the total cost of education, so perhaps it could or will be a guide to the proposer of this law when formulating Article 24, which according to the SDP Club, which speaks of who all participates in the financing or co-financing of adult education. So we think that this article that speaks about financing adult education could be arranged more precisely. Finally, this should also be said because we have warned of this in the first reading, which is that agreeing with colleagues from the HSS Club is of course not enough to pass this law and to establish certain provisions of need, as well as how adult education is already needed when talking about employers to create and simulate the environment, so also to encourage those employers to invest in additional education and professional training of their employees. So once again, we remind ourselves that all the provisions that made it possible for employers to make tax breaks easier when it comes to training employees, but also when it comes to improving people with disabilities and generally all the benefits associated with additional education. If I am not mistaken, it is responsible for comments from the SDP club in the first reading, the secretary of state said the minister in charge of education affairs with the finance minister would agree on those tax reliefs. Something like that, as far as we know, is not agreed. However, knowing the position of the finance minister will not or won't be possible to agree on because the question is referred to from the SDP club of the Ministry of Finance, or the minister made it clear and loud that such tax relief is simply not possible because it is contrary to some European Union directives. Which directives, unfortunately, he was unable to make clear at the time. So with all that I've said, as far as the SDP Club is concerned, we will, among other things, be involved in the creation of this law, and experts in the field of adult education will support the proposal of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82448	Thank you. The HSLS Club is a respected representative of Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82449	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HSLS Club has supported the adoption of this law already in its first reading and there is no reason not to support it even now that the final proposal for this law is before us. I will just remind myself that at the end of the 1970s there was one of the most hot poles in the then Croatian or Yugoslav society just a reform of the school led by the then minister of education in the Republic, education in the Republic of Croatia, the late Stipe Shuvar. And in fact, he probably had a good idea and a pretty good concept, but precisely because he was a little bit of a nuanced whole, the whole story didn't end up too famously, and actually he had already had in mind certain changes of paradigms in, which were in education because what was once possible to complete and graduate and to actually be enough for the rest of his life. We live in one of these times, yet once a completely different age, and today it's almost impossible to do any strategy that would, I don't know, have pretensions, I don't know, describe the situation for over 10 years. But I say because of those ideologies and too much ideologies and too much partyism in those documents, his reform was then infamously, infamously failed. But now I'm just saying, in the end, we ourselves become aware of this very fact that today we actually have to raise ourselves to a very different time when things, when precisely these technical, technological innovations, revolutions are exactly, are everyday and simply what you learned yesterday already for, but in a few months or years it won't be enough for you. What I also think shocked us with the right, and that was when the data were published on the educational structure of the adult population of the Republic of Croatia after this last census in 2001 in May when we really faced one in my opinion the alarming fact that all 7 and a half of the citizens of the Republic, adults of the Republic of Croatia have high. That they're academically educated citizens. And I don't think we should even talk about what really is the connection between education and political relations in a society. I don't want to, and I won't agree to those authors who claim to actually fit these national elites. ... Another very interesting book about where it showed exactly how it is, which is less written that it actually suits the elite. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that it is, in fact, that then the masses are more suitable for manipulation. But right now, if we've faced this fact, so if the government has decided to take certain steps, then I'm glad our elites are showing that we're just sensitive to this problem and that they can't agree to this truly catastrophic state that we're only 7 and a half percent of the population, that we have, that we're academically educated. As the Croatian Parliament, we too must participate in the change of this rather unpleasant situation. It is therefore necessary to support the improvement of the regular education system primarily for children and young people. But equally, and perhaps even faster, we must act on adults. According to those who are working, which means younger than 65 years old. Although adult education, this syntagma is a little bit like this by looking at the semantically vague because what is actually a grown man today? I think at 14, 16, we're already entering that adult world, but let's just say it's about one... Then We shall accept him as such. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are people who are working today, but also thousands of people who are registered or unregistered and unemployed. We had, this particular privatisation led to a large number of actually working people, people in the best years actually retired and we think that for, first of all, the economy is not good. It's not good at all for the mental set of these people, it's not good for the health of one society, and we certainly should do everything and these legal solutions to encourage, that people just like that get involved in one lifelong learning. Why is that necessary? We are saying, I repeat, we are increasingly aware that there are no more occupations and jobs that every day bring no new challenges or every day seeks some new knowledge, some new skills and new abilities. When we read the "Kun" structure of scientific revolutions 50 years ago, it almost seemed to us that it was, in fact, a bit futuristic. Today, too, this book of Kun proves to be actually a great anti-cipation of what is about to happen. I repeat, computers, digital technology has infiltrated all the pores of the economy, construction, trade, tourism, public service, health, education, science, culture. In all the pores of state bodies and bodies of local and regional self-government. Only one example is these digital land books. That's all in some way, that's what, that's what we're forced to do, and in order for someone to be able to do that and serve it must be, must be adequate and educated. Every day, more and more professions are being conducted, or licensing is being conducted, which is a condition of continuing learning and acquiring new knowledge, skills and skills. It is a lifelong learning that ensures permanent employability and preservation of current jobs, but also what we have very, in some other times, this very commitment exclusively to one job. I don't know, so 30 years in INA, 30 years in "Work of Concar", 30 years in HEP. Today, such things are actually becoming a bit of a "dog" in some way, and it is precisely necessary to allow people just one, that free flow and labour force, and that people are actually not only bound to one job, to one company, to the one company, when they enter and actually earn their pension in it. And some way that's exactly what makes career advancement possible. I mean, we at the HSLS Club think that these are actually conditions without which there is no development of the economy in particular there is no development of that competitive economy for which in some ways we are all here declaring ourselves. This is our new reality. The fact is, we all learn in different ways all the time. Sometimes it's a job learning. Sometimes in an educational institution. Sometimes at home and that's exactly what this fact is, is the biggest reason why this law needs to be read, and even from a certain flaw above all else, and who's going to finance it all? That's what I think this law is, and that's what I think amendments can be done, in a way that the law and obligations exactly and that this isn't, it's not just one thing left in our story. And that what, that noble idea in some way actually seems non-binding. We think it would be good and that regardless of the institutions, employers and local and regional self-government are also obliged to participate in the financing of adult education. We also have no illusions that this law could... Everything we've talked about, and it's not exactly what it takes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important that this law, as in its initial provisions, and it says to me in Croatia, finally becomes aware that adults must learn constantly and that we as a state support it, and we are in this law. The education of adults, therefore, by this law we accept as an integral part of our education system as a public service that is of general interest, so in this part and in this way adult education is governed by this law. But as soon as I say it of general interest, then it must be, to find a foothold to be paid. This law does not introduce adult education in Croatia to be clear. It already exists, but I'm saying in some way we had a feeling that, if in some way it wasn't arranged enough and I think that with such practice, that such a practice by adopting this law would finally be interrupted. It is obvious that the adoption of this law will allow us to find out what it is all about adult education in Croatia today, which is an offer, how much it is available to citizens in certain areas, what the quality of this offer is. It is this, when we say here in all areas, that in certain areas you see the other day on TV that here in the City of Zagreb without any major problems will allow graduates to prepare free graduates for their classification exams. Indeed, if equality is prescribed in the Constitution, then there is no point in not knowing that it enables graduates in Zagreb, and that some graduates in some smaller places, municipalities that do not have the potential to be punished for it. I think in some way we need to put all the people right now, and especially those young people in the same legal position, not to say someone doesn't start being unfairly handicapped. And then exactly HSLS will go with that proposal exactly that and that preparation of graduates in some way those who want it made possible for them to be free, without it being some new blow to the budgets, to the home budgets that we are aware of and are not God knows what. That is why it is good that even here when this law is applied to really seeing, whether there are really areas, certain areas where this noble idea of permanent adult education is also in difficulty if there are no good financial, material backgrounds. I'm saying, that's exactly why we pointed out the importance of the adult education agency in our first reading. This agency is equally important in terms of the use of the European Funds, and it is necessary to support the Mobility Centre and precisely all the euro of the Union programmes that will act within the membership of the Agency. So, as soon as possible to pass this law and prevent all the necessary actions that are supposed to be used, I say those European funds that exist. The criticism of the existing education system is often heard that schools are educated for the labour market, not for the labour market. That is why I say it is very important to define what a labour market is to not only be a matter of the education sector, just a matter of the ministry, but first of all we should achieve certain cooperation, synergy and what they think and what employers say. I'm saying, I'm not going back to those factory formulas plus school. I'm always a school plus, in the end I come from that world, I see the same school as the center. But this is exactly the collaboration, when I say factory, then I really mean in this very broad sense of that concept. But that is, that we do not really educate people to be unemployed, to lose, but to try to find out exactly what are the adequate, or optimal, adequate needs of the Republic of Croatia right now. We think it's in the club, that it's a good thing this law introduces an adult education council where it will be representatives of ministries and employers and trade unions and educational institutions. Such a body if competent persons sit in it should play a very important role in removing the shortcomings, I say which legislator I am aware of. Through joint action by both the Government and the Ministry, and the social education partners, we can in some way coordinate activities and strengthen these effective measures. In the final law, the Proposer incorporated all the remarks we made in the first reading, including those on funding from local and regional self-government. It is a good thing that Article 9 and earlier was amended, and that it was possible for Andragogian workers to have working relationships to be based on a working contract, but also on a work contract because in some institutions that will deal with adult education, it will not take more than two, three hours a week, which means that when the need for their work is occasional, there is no need to work on a permanent basis, but it is precisely that to enable both the fluctuation and this teaching staff. Article 28 has also been amended. We also drew attention to that in our first reading. Indeed, there is no need to call a public tender for investment and investment maintenance in universities, and material operating costs for the purpose of removing the activity and education of adults. In these universities, local and regional self-government units, i.e. cities and counties are the founders of these institutions, i.e. universities. And what I'm saying again is we're going back to this one good idea that this law has, and that's that the local communities, in accordance with their interests, are opening up a tender for the cost of implementing the education programme needed by their local economy. It really doesn't make sense to have a Vukovar where you have a strong rubber industry like Borovo to call a competition for chefs, waiters and hotelers. But this will be done in some other areas, but certainly in Vukovar that they were primarily interested in the development of their economy in the field of competitions that would concern those industries that operate in this area. Just to say this might be a little stricter application of this who's going to pay for this bill is from the HSLS Club getting full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82450	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82451	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community also considered the Final Proposal for the Law on Adult Education and, as we have already highlighted the importance of this law at the very beginning of this debate, the importance of law-making. Why? In its four-year term, the government has set itself up for development and education as a priority for the success and better life of all our citizens. Only educated citizens can compete on the economic market and therefore the determination of life-long learning in the development plan for education and education is taking an important and priority place and this is precisely this lifelong learning to include and adults particularly unemployed in training programmes for inclusion in the labour market. Croatia also cited a number of changes in the education and education system in its introduction. In June 2005, a strategic development document was adopted aimed at improving the education and education system known to us as the development plan for education and education from 2005 to 2010. It is in schools to just remind the introduced HNOS with the purpose of discharging teaching programs, including students. The course is based on the teaching process, and is directed towards the student by respecting his preferences and abilities. The student is being introduced to research class. A reform of vocational education has been initiated. It was founded by the Professional School Agency. The Education and Education Agency was also established to replace the current Institute of Education. Science and Higher Education Agency. The National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, which successfully conducted the first national exams in first-class high schools and this year will be conducted in eight primary schools and four-year vocational schools. State graduation was introduced in high school and vocational schools with four-year programmes. In line with Croatia's development strategy, the government decided to extend compulsory education from eight to eleven or twelve years old. And before us now we have another law that is very important for development and education. It's the Law on adult education. In the first reading, all participants agreed that this law is necessary and that, compared to the current regulation of this area in the Law on Fundamental Education, on secondary schooling and the Law on Open Universitys, this proposed law will make a shift in relation to the existing status of adult education and more order will be introduced into this area. The education of adults is particularly important in the area based on the concept I have already said lifelong learning and principles of openness and accessibility to all. By passing laws, the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports will also play a major role in coordinating and accomplishing the tasks which are very important because the responsibility of those who are now engaged in education will be greater. The responsibility of both states and local communities, employers and individuals is established. Adult education is defined as a public service which will certainly contribute to increasing awareness of education in society. Already in the first reading of this law, many have pointed out that we must be concerned and today we have heard it through the very poor educational structure of society. Even 15.76% of adults without their primary school. The Ministry of State Budgets is funding a project for Croatian literacy "The Road to the Desirable Future". According to available data from the ministry in the first two years of the project, a thousand 209 people were involved in primary education. Unfortunately, that's not enough either. It's hard for older people to get involved in education. The other day, on a TV show, I was listening to data on the inclusion of adults in primary education in Sibenik-Knin County, which unfortunately leads by the percentage of unfinished people with primary school. So, those people who don't have finished primary school. Unfortunately, because of everything they've done in Pucci Open School, because of organized basic education free of charge for individuals, very few people have decided. The question is, why? Whether it is because of discomfort, tradition, conservativeism, numerous families and most often data that they are persons living in many families, as they point out by polls they have no time to educate, a lack of free time. If these are all the reasons why people don't get involved in adult education, we're looking for an answer for now. But certainly, this law and everything that makes the ministry and the government and the local community will also contribute to the awareness of those who do not have school in our fellow citizens, those who need at least elementary school, to develop this awareness that people are involved in precisely acquiring that first education, which is basic education. The current situation shows that after graduating from primary school on average, only 79% of children enter high school and 69 graduates within the deadline. Or 64% of the unemployed are with a finished high school that tells us and today some of my colleagues have just pointed out this about labour and education market discrepancies, is one of the indicators that says adult education is an important segment in education. All these needs and questions are answered by the concept of lifelong learning. According to this law, the Republic of Croatia, by signing several international documents, has committed itself to the adoption of a special law and action plan for implementation, which in 2005, 2006 and now has been achieved by this law. As comments and proposals were sent to the applicant after their first reading, the proposed text of the final proposal for a law on adult education is a visible improvement. It is good, we point out that the applicant also accepted the comments in Article 4 which refer to which legal persons can conduct adult education and added the proposed schools of foreign languages, thereby giving importance to this area of education. As pointed out in the first reading of certain provisions relating to Andragogian employees, the establishment of a working relationship not only in accordance with the Labour Act but in Article 9(2), it is possible that, if the worker's work does not cross half the full-time period in one school year, the Institute for the Education of Adults can conclude an act contract with the Andragogian employee and thus accept the comments from the debate and allow scientists and experts from practice to engage in this kind of education and to contribute to the quality of the same. We are pleased that you also accepted the proposal of the HDZ Club, which was presented in the first debate, which is that the article 10 sets out not the duty but the obligation of professional and Andragogical training, because as we pointed out in the first debate, most teachers, teachers, professional associates do not learn anything about working with adults during their education. Most people are unfortunately not competent to work in education, and many people don't understand the concept of andragogy. Therefore, their obligation is also professional training, not just a duty. In the section governing the duties and obligations of the students, it is noted that the right to leave is increased from 3 to at least 7 days a year, which is good, because for the passing of an expert state examination in various enterprises, institutions or anywhere, it gives a seven-day leave, as well as for someone who attends the training. Accepting the proposed concept of adult training, the funding system is also defined. Now the whole adult education is left to the market where end-users, the participants bear the costs of their education. So far, these new Articles 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28 have been financed from the state budget of different ministries, but are precisely defined by the state budget, the budget of the units of local and regional self-government. The final proposal for a law also adopted observations on Article 28. so that the applicant complemented the provisions of this article and determined precisely that, on the basis of a public tender, the resources from the state budget for the implementation of the programme of secondary education of adults who completed only primary school and other adult education programmes from the budget of the units of local and regional self-government for the cost of implementation of the programme, and for the funding of the national budget and budget of units of local and regional self-government for the provision of teaching and other material resources, development and implementation of innovative programmes. The final draft of the law defines more precisely the activities of the Agency for the Education of Adults who will indeed have a key role to play in this area. Articles relating to criminal provisions for all those who do not comply with the legal provisions have also been supplemented. It is good that the applicant extended the deadline in Article 34 to coordinate the implementation of the education programme from 6 months to one year and thus made it possible for institutions that carry out teaching better quality and safer adaptation. And finally, from the basic document of the 2004 adult education strategy, the Action Plan of the adult education strategy until the final proposal of the Law on adult education, this area of education is placed in a very important area without which the entire development of society is not possible. As explained in this proposal, the adoption of this law will affect the systematic increase of citizens' participation in lifelong learning and the change in the educational structure of adult society. Because the need for the education of the unemployed is to acquire the necessary employment competencies, and in the case of employees, the need for continuous training is also indicated in the rapid development of technology and science. Perhaps even better planning on enrolment in high school, what some colleagues have pointed out today in this debate, and that means for the needs of the labour market not according to my wishes, by my judgments will enable certainly better education for the future. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will adopt the proposed Law on adult education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82452	Thank you. HSP representative club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82453	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Indeed, a lot of nice words have been said since the clubs here in connection with the Law on adult education. I'll try not to repeat things on behalf of the HSP club. Although I'm afraid many commendations here are made only on a certain declarative level. So I'm going to try to be a little more specific about those things that are actually in my court and in the court of HSP, there's always a special debate, and that's the issue of funding in the adoption of some new law. In fact, today it is already widely known and accepted that the inevitable condition of building a competitive economy and a democratic society is actually the development of an education system and this development of an education system based on the concept of lifelong learning. So when we talk here about this adult education law, then we're actually talking about accepting this concept of lifelong learning, not fixing some bad statistics. In fact, lifelong learning rests on four basic pillars. This is a general education involving preschool education and primary education that has already been spoken of here. The second pillar is vocational education. The third pillar is high education. And finally this fourth pillar is adult education. Unlike the developed countries that have long been based on these 4 pillars, the legally regulated area of adult education in Croatia has been only partially and completely inadequately arranged so far and above all in the field of primary and secondary education. This is therefore, and this should be pointed out, for the first time in Croatia, a special adult education law has been passed because this has never been regulated by law. The objectives of passing this law are described and are already in the first reading, but I will repeat some of them. First of all, it is to increase the involvement of citizens in lifelong and lifelong learning, as according to the OECD's 2004 figures, the percentage of Croatian citizens' participation between 25 and 64 was only, so I repeat, from 25 to 60 years of age was only 2.1%. The average of the European Union in 2003, so one year before this data, was almost 10%. So our average is about five times smaller than in the European Union countries. The second goal is to establish an adult education system as part of a single education system in the Republic of Croatia, as it has not been so far. Furthermore, the aim is to develop an educational offer in line with the educational needs of both individuals and employers, which has already been discussed here by the entire social community. Furthermore, the aim is to establish a partnership between relevant factors in the country, primarily social factors, so at the level and level ratio of state employers and other state partners to educational institutions, NGOs and others. And finally, the goal is to increase and control the efficiency of public investment in education, because we actually don't have such controls except for certain statistics that can be interpreted in different ways. You know what people say, there's a big lie, a little lie and a statistical lie. The law regulates the activity of adult education which has its compensatory role, compensates for the failures of the regular education system, which is one of the very important issues in Croatia. According to the 2001 census, a large number of adults over the age of 15 have not completed primary school. That percentage is 15.76% and there are 21.75% of those who finish primary school only. The data is about a large number of young people, so a year about 10,000 young people who don't graduate from high school. All of them need to have a second chance to get to their first job in the first place. On the other hand, it is quite clear that the knowledge acquired during regular education is no longer sufficient for active participation in the labour market, that there is no longer any job that requires any lasting acquisition of knowledge and of course new skills. The role of adult education will enable each working-active person to have a permanent education in order to keep a job or to advance in the profession or to change the profession in line with the needs of the labour market. What the HSP particularly welcomes in the proposal of this law is the same status and role given both to public and private initiatives and thus respects a positive practice in Croatia. By recognising the same status of private and public initiatives, we have taken even a step forward in relation to a number of European states which are financed from public funds only by institutions that are the founders of states, i.e. local self-government. So here is another example for you where when Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union, the European Union will have to adapt its legislation to our standards, as it is, for example, certainly needs when it comes to minority rights laws. The Council for adult education and the Agency for adult education whose role is to monitor and develop is the novelty of this law and good news because the Council for adult education is based on the principle of partnership. The work of the Council shall include social and educational partners and shall ensure their impact on the creation, monitoring and development of education policy through, above all, a system of information that is important for the purpose of determining development, programme offers, certification and non-determination in the part of the financing. Also, licensing educational programmes, which enables the introduction of standardisation of programmes, not adult education as they please and wish. The financing of adult education, and we would like to say about this particular emphasis, is an inevitable condition for the construction and development of this system, and this should be said not only to welcome a new law that will regulate a legally defined area that has not been regulated so far, but we must first of all make sure that it comes to life, and in order to revive, we need to talk about funding. Public and private funds are also involved in the financing. Investment in adult education is ensured from the state budget and the budget of local and (regional) regional self-government, ensuring systematic investment in those areas of adult education which are of public interest and mechanisms of influence and control of investment from public funds. A number of European countries apply the three-thirds principle. So one third of the funding is borne by the state, one third by local self-government and employers, or individuals. We have so far had significant resources from the state budget for adult education and that should be said, through projects of different ministries. What particular attention should be paid to the opinion of the HSP Club is that the pool of funds provided through projects of different ministries, and not to actually continue this area although the law, the legislator is the Ministry of Education, is actually divided into funding between different ministries. It's ineffective, it's unnecessary and it's actually a waste of money. The lack was evident in the mutual lack of control and control, in fact, of the efficiency of the spending of these funds and should therefore be united in our court. The proposed law corresponds with the laws of developed European states and is one of the legal rules that were discussed in negotiations with the European Union in the field of education and culture and therefore we at the HSP club do not know why this law does not bear the P.Z.E. mark. when he is free to do so, and even to bear it and is part of the negotiations which is, in fact, largely concluded as far as the points of the negotiations are concerned, concluded with the European Union. The law respects the existing good practice in Croatia, but at the same time enables controlled systemic development from an individual, local community, state, while fully respecting compliance with the p-level system, i.e. the uniqueness of the legal system and the unique legislative methodology. So, for example. the issue of funding for which the part of formal education has now been regulated in a way that costs are borne by citizens themselves, i.e. employers and the Croatian Employment Service, the draft law regulates systematic funding from public funds, meaning from the state budget, the budget of units of local and regional self-government in the way other areas of education are financed, by financing from the state budget the programme costs in part of the basic adult education provided by the Constitution, the programme costs of secondary education of adults and other programmes of adult education which are estimated to be of national interest on the proposal of this newly established adult education council. Costs of monitoring, promotion and development of adult education, etc. For the implementation of this law, however, funding must be provided in the state budget at least at the level of the past years. Unite as I have already said from different programmes of different ministries, and from the budget of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government is financed anyway, programme costs for programmes which are in the interest and are not financed from the state budget and already spoken about by colleagues here, material costs, investments and investment maintenance in those institutions that are founders. I would like to say, once again, that in the pooling of different programming means, it should be particularly careful not to re-calculate the items of different ministries with various phantom items, as I personally like to call them, and these are items that you know as part of a programme once they enter the budget and once they enter the budget they never come out of it again. Whether they were spent, to what extent, if anyone followed what they were spent, in what way, etc. So this, these phantom funds for different programs on different items of different ministries, are then converted to so-called. black funds, and I really ask here the Ministry of Education and the Secretary of State to take care of when the funds are pooled through this agency, to delete then certain programming items by those ministries that will no longer be taken care of. To be transferred to your ministry, simply by force of numbers and then not to be interpreted as an increase in your ministry's funding, but simply to redistribute funds within the government. Funding is extremely important for the issue of the development of each activity, as well as education. The state must take responsibility because this need stems from the low educational structure of the population. I have to say here that every five, so 18.62% of the adult citizens of this country don't have a primary school. And of course it is the responsibility of the state because it is guaranteed by the Constitution that the responsibility of the state must be taken over and that it is necessary to encourage economic development and reduce the problem of unemployment, which is one of the causes of the inadequate educational structure of the population. And a particularly large target group of young and active citizens of this country. And that's why the HSP Club supports the adoption of this law along with these remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82454	Thank you. At 10.53, it was time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. PGS representative club,... IMF. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82455	Dear Mr. President, respected members of the ministry. Let me, therefore, include on behalf of the PGS Club, the SBS, the IMF in the debate on this Act, the law which therefore manages adult education programmes in the Republic of Croatia. We support, therefore, the objectives and intensity of this Law but we do not think that it will largely meet its objectives or objectives. The government, in its own explanation of the assessment of the situation, also points out that Croatia faces an extremely low and inadequate educational level and the structure of its adult population. So she points out that problem, but we think that this law will not change the situation as it is right now. We support, therefore, those clubs that have spoken about this question, therefore, the issue of adult education is a strategic issue. The strategic question, therefore, that then the state must, therefore, take much greater responsibility for the achievement of all the goals you have set. The mechanisms that have been set up and proposed in this Law by us, therefore, will not ensure that. We primarily think there are almost no stimulating or stimulating measures to get as many people involved in these programmes as possible. So the number of people is likely to be at a level and years ago. That the state is worrying is also telling us the data that I'm going to repeat again. That 10 years ago, the proportion of uneducated people in the adult population is considered to be persons over 15 years of age who have no higher education than primary school, so 10 years ago he was about 55%. Which, according to European standards, is extremely unfavourable. According to the latest data in the educational structure of the active population of Croatia, the 2001 statement, received on a representative sample of uneducated persons who have no education more than 37.5% of primary school, speaks of a significant improvement in the education of the population. With such education, however, Croatia has just reached its lower limit of education for the European Union countries and advanced transition countries. In doing so, 14% of the adult population in us have not even completed primary school. It can be concluded from this data that there are great needs in Croatia for the compensatory primary education of adults. What is at the same time as the basic adult education system in Croatia? It's in a particularly unfavourable state. So we're talking about a system that's currently working and going in this direction. According to a survey conducted in 2000, out of 45 legal entities that have been certified to carry out basic adult education, only 25 actually carry out this education. Of this, only 3 institutions carry out all forms of primary education. Regular, advisory teaching, including passing exams. 9 The institution organises a advisory instructional course, and 13 institutions organises only the passing of exams. Since a large number of adults have not completed primary school and are joined each year by new unfinished students, such a situation should be radically changed for the better. In fact, only few individuals have completed primary school, few individuals can be employed on the simplest jobs and cannot be requalified or continued schooling. Basic schooling is a necessary condition to establish citizens' equality, which is a constitutional category. I have already said before, therefore, that we are in principle in favour of this Law but that its acceptance depends on amendments, on the acceptance of the amendments we have proposed. Thus, one of the amendments to the amendment to Article 25, which also obliges the State. includes the costs of obtaining textbooks and transport. So, the system that talks about basic adult education, we add, therefore, and the costs related to the purchase of textbooks and transportation. We think that this Law must be much more stimulating and attractive for people in order for them to decide as easily as possible to go into these programs. Well, often, especially people who don't even have a primary school are in such a social situation and the position that they can't afford the basic costs of completing primary schooling themselves, so we suggest that since the Constitution states that basic education is mandatory and free to do so at this level. We know that we have passed the Law on elementary and high school textbooks which we also predicted basic school textbooks to be free of charge. The Law also provides for the transport for primary school to be free of charge and we think that adult, adult, therefore, future attenders must thus be equated with primary school students and in this way we will stimulate them to go, so that they can make the difference they need to finish that primary school at all. We know that adult education centres are mostly in large county and city centers, and so we think we should also provide transportation to those people who come to these centers. We also point out that there is also a particular problem with the non-compliance of education production and also the need for labour markets, which potentiates unemployment problems. Unemployment is not the very result of a reduction in the number of jobs, but also of structural nature. While there is, on the one hand, a surplus of educated people whose qualifications are not needed, there is a shortage of people of certain qualifications, but the surpluses are significantly higher than the deficits, which means that the main cause of unemployment and the lack of job vacancies. And also due to economic restructuring in Croatia, the needs for the retraining of unemployed and employees are expressed, there are also needs for additional adult education to keep employment. The construction of an inclusive society that would rule out and socially marginalised as few unemployed, mostly young and adults, is impossible without a strong and accessible adult education. For the development of a society that learns from the utmost importance, the partnership of all actors of lifelong education is important. Learning a lifetime, but you cannot go to school your whole life, is just one form of education, that is, learning. The suspension of formal and informal education and information learning is carried out through the co-operation of state institutions, interested in education, so different ministries, the institution of informal education, which partially or fully realises its income on the market, working organisations, NGOs and other civil society institutions. Adult education should be coordinated with the interests of social partners interested in a particular type of education, employers and employees in vocational education and public and private interest, the interests of the local community and the state in basic and informal liberal adult education. Since funding is a strong lever in the development of relations between potential partners, we are also of the opinion that the country's incentive measures are also very important in the form of the release of companies from taxes on the education of employees. State subsidisation of basic adult education, establishment of specialised funds and infrastructure support for publication printing, research and development work and support for international cooperation. The aim is to support the establishment of an adult education system, making it available to all citizens of the country in accordance with their interests and needs of national development. So we think that in these things that I've been making lately, this law is flawed. It has therefore already been stated here that the state had to engage with various incentive measures, especially in the form of tax exemptions, such as these. introduced and implemented in Hungary, which is why we are proposing that this is not legally possible at the same time as the amendment to... to include State obligations and the cost of salary compensation during the use of educational leave. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The state would therefore show in this way that adult education really considers it its strategic definition if it is a strategic provision then it must have adequate support in the state budget. Therefore, in order to avoid misunderstandings and misunderstandings, both in Articles 18 and 19 and in the Committee on Gender Equality, it has been pointed out that the possibility of problems between employees and employers in the ability of the employer to give that educational leave because it is settled in agreement, who will therefore make up for that leave if the employer gives it the norm that the employer will arrange it, but only normally if it is in his interest, and the employer will also consider in any way whether he will give an unpaid educational leave if he has to hire someone at that time what would be his additional cost. So, once again, we insist that funding obligations be installed in the Law, i.e. the reimbursement of the fees for educational leave from the state budget. We think it would be one of the measures that would contribute to getting as many people involved in these programs as possible. What we also warn as regional parties is that this Law imposes some new obligations on our cities, municipalities and counties and I think that it should meet municipalities, cities and counties in such a way as to increase their decentralised resources. We also warn that some of our specific regions, some of the regions in the Republic of Croatia, are stronger, therefore, in a more unfavourable position than other regions in terms of education. Unfortunately, my Međimurje County is at the bottom as far as Croatia is concerned by the number of highly educated personnel, somewhere around 4% have highly educated personnel, in Croatia it's about 8%, in Europe it's about 25%. So we think that the state should also have its own specific regional projects in order to support certain regions more strongly in these programmes, and therefore all in order to enable our economy to be as competitive as possible, i.e. that we offer not only work on the market to the world and the European market, we offer not only hands but also knowledge, but also quality product. Well, that's it. Our club will support this law depending on this amendment whether it will be accepted or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82456	Thank you. In the name of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82457	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs! Despite certain remarks, the Croatian Peasant Party supported the bill in its first reading. We have pointed to certain shortcomings, and we believe that most of these remarks will be appreciated. But since this is usually the case, a large number of these remarks have not been accepted, and from that aspect we express some disappointment. Today, the final proposal of the Law on adult education is on the agenda, which we will support to say immediately at the beginning, because the better and the law with certain indeterminations but which will start to apply rather than any law. However, once again, the first step in addressing the problem of adult education was made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2003 by adopting the UN Resolution 54 initiative. Decade of Literature 2003-2012 through the Croatian Literature Project "The Road to the Desirable Future". Budgetary appropriations have been provided and for those initial years, the target group has been persons 15 to 50 years of life. They're 90 grand 600. It remains for analysis now of why over a thousand 209 people in the first two years became involved in this basic education. Why are we pointing that out again? Because somewhere in the system there was obviously a mistake and we're not sure with just passing the law all mistakes will be removed. This, of course, has been further launched in 2004 by adopting a strategy on adult education, but this has also not made much of a shift. Of course, it is now logical to pass a Law on adult education that seeks to regulate an important area. What, by our assumption, motivated the government to regulate this area legally? Surely our society is getting older, 2.86% of adults without any school, 15.76% of adults without a finished primary school, market requirements for increasing competences, lack of legal assumptions about the recognition of knowledge, skills and ability to learn informally and informally. And a strategic commitment to a strong and faster development of a knowledge society. The very fact that this area really wants to be regulated by law speaks in favour of this government being a strategic issue and that is good. If that is indeed the case, it should also be more strategically and clearly determined according to the problem. First of all, the financing model of adult education is financially elaborated, the concreteisation of key issues must be regulated legally and not left to the ministers' decisions and at the same time to adopt a package of laws and sublegal acts which must also be based on the proposed principles, primarily the principle of lifelong learning. Article 4 sets out which institutions implement adult education programmes. The novelty is foreign language schools, but will be its position in relation to primary and secondary schools, higher schools, especially if it is linked to Article 28 of this final draft law establishing the institution of a public tender. We in HSS and now in the second reading think that we should leave the possibility of adult education to implement a number of economic large systems, such as the Croatian Forest, HEP, Croatian Roads, etc. but as well as for foreign language school to develop their position. But it's not like that. There remains further unspeakable and educational leave that has not determined the mutual relations between workers and employers. Change is just cosmetic. It is no longer three but at least seven days a year as many employees can achieve, but it depends on the worker and the employer. Those aren't the best provisions. We believe that the workers should be given flexible working hours and paid leave. We specifically point to a chapter in financing adult education. Unfortunately, and in the final proposal, the part was only generally resolved. First, it is necessary by law to determine how much will be allocated at each level. We have the state budget, the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government, the user and the fourth employer. It is necessary to adopt precise criteria which will be financed and how much. Furthermore, it is insufficient to provide funding for programme or investment and investment maintenance costs without worrying too much about how many participants will register. Whether the costs will be equal for ten participants, or 20 and whether the price of the programme will be predetermined for five or 15 participants. There are also no co-financing criteria for other funding entities that I have already talked about, and in particular participants and employers. Or, let's set things up a little differently. Who will be most interested in joining the adult education system. According to all indicators so far, at least those who create the most unfavourable image in the educational structure. So, those without a primary school and those who, although they have them, are less likely to finish high school education. So less education has less need for further learning and less earning, so it won't be able to single out enough own resources. And that's the essence of adult education funding structures. The government needs to determine how strategically important this project is and how much to allocate financial resources. According to us in HSS, the state should do the greatest work, so I am talking about the far-reaching work of funding and encouraging adults to finish primary school education and employers should be more involved in co-financing for the completion of higher school education. But we should get the right subsidies for that, too. What is the role of the units of local or regional and regional self-government? Rebursement of financial burdens without additional revenue. And we can talk about these are smaller or larger funds, it doesn't matter, but that's how it was on the previous agenda point when we talked about the establishment of the Youth Council. We said, "These are not significant funds." But there's more and more burdens like that. It's possible the public gets a slightly different picture. The government or state has regulated the area legally, provided the funds. Indeed, they are provided for the settlement of costs and implementation of the programme, but units or local communities would have to participate financially. And we think that the transfer of this growing, growing commitment to the local community is not good. And all these elements should be taken into account, not in order to disburse the units of local or regional self-government, but to succeed this important project. I don't think anyone's here in this assembly who wouldn't want that project to work. Indeed from the heart, here we were at HSS arguing. We want him to succeed. But not only to succeed, but to achieve the expected results in this way. Just before I spoke about which group was targeted in 2003, over 90,000, and only 1209 of them participated in the project. So we want a significantly higher share and a significantly higher number of users of these services. It is good that our remarks in the transitional and final provisions have been accepted. Article 33, paragraph 2 but is present here in paragraph 1 as long as the minister will have a commitment within the next three months. How many regulations will have to be adopted within that time limit. Indeed, part of it had to be dealt with legally. We support the discussion of the parent board on education, science and culture related to Article 28 in the tendering process. But it still remains unspeakable. When the competition is called, during what time period? Who's going to coordinate the competition activities? Probably an agency, but it should be written. And finally, the Croatian Peasant Party will support this Final Proposal of the Law on adult education, although we are afraid that there will already be some ambiguity in the implementation. I'll do it again. So above all, in the system of financing adult education. Too much... delay in sublegal acts or ministers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No precise criteria have been established to define the role of the employer as well as the motivation of users of the education, adult education system and the question of the forms of professional training of anagosian employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82458	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Želimir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82459	Thank you very much, Vice President. Allow Madam MPs and MPs to briefly refer to part of the debate from, the debate you had on behalf of the clubs. The project for Croatian literacy and the path to a desirable future is mentioned several times, which we in the jargon call descripting, therefore, for those who have not completed all primary school classes. The project began in 2003, in the second half of 2003 and, of course, as the respected representative Sabati said in the first and second years, there were few effects, and few participants were involved. Somewhere, something over 1200. However, this figure is still shy, but in the upward path we now have about 4000 of those who have joined, and what is encouraging in 2006 is almost 1700. So most of all, not until now. Since that is the case, we in the Ministry have decided to increase the amount for promotion, so we have more money on those items and we will try to go to a stronger promotion in order to invite all those who need to finish primary school to get involved in this process. We're confident that's what we're gonna do. But I would add here it's not just about ending eight classes, but the state is financing it entirely for each student, but it also finances 101 programs for a simple 150-hour occupation. So it does give some qualification to those who finish primary school in this way. So we are convinced that there will be an even greater number in the future. There was another question asked. Mrs. Ivanka Roksandic spoke on behalf of HDZ and in fact asked the question of what is the situation, for example, in Sibenik-Knin County. There, unfortunately, we did not have a large number of inclusions in this project and, say, in 2006, 33 students were involved in the entire county. That's 32 from Knin. So we know what a qualification structure is in the city of Knin and this information that in 2006, so many participants are involved encourages and we hope that this number will be greater in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82460	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82461	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I must say, in my opinion, the final proposal for a law on adult education has some shifts ahead, but it seems to me that there is too much inconclusiveness and I think I will also ask for further explanations in my debate. It's because no one can be against passing a law like this, but if something is done in a hurry and there's no quality, I'm afraid we're going to have to go very quickly with the amendments and the amendments to the law. That's why I'd like to ask for an explanation and point to some illogicality within the law. Article 4 states that who can conduct adult education under this law? Foreign language schools are mentioned, among other things. And later, in Article 14, we talk about who can establish an institution for adult education. So they're said to be other legal and physical persons. If we look at the transitional and final provisions of the law, then there are some illogicalities. I'll tell you what's going on right now. Today we have foreign language schools in Croatia that act as companies. And not just foreign language schools. We also have other forms of organised adult education that act as companies. A trading company was created to generate profits unlike an institution. Here in this text of the law there is nothing about how and in what way must foreign language schools or companies become institutions be brought into line? Do they have to do it? Or remains the system as it has been? I would ask a very clear and precise answer. Especially since we have foreign language schools that have international certificates they're working on and now suddenly people don't know what they're going to do and how? I also talked about it in the first reading of the law, but there is no clarification and at least in this text the reasoning of the law. And even in the articles of the law, I don't see it being solved in any way. I would also ask that my clarification of Article 18 be made. Publicly, there is already a lot to talk about how employees are entitled to educational leave. However, when reading the text of the law, Article 18 first paragraph here is said that employees can exercise the right to a minimum of seven days. They can do this, so that means they have to, but they don't have to, and everything depends on the employee agreement and their employer. If we want to be serious and we want to enable really extra schooling, of course I can side with the promoter if the additional schooling is related or functionally related to the work currently being done, then I am to be imperative, that it allows someone to have more opportunities to advance, can contribute more to their working environment and everything else. If she can, I'm afraid there's a good part of our employers that's gonna be nothing today. And one good idea will turn into a non-sensual idea. I would like to explain how the promoter thought that this could be further regulated because the agreements are what they are. Often when the employers are in their favor, they force them to go. However, as a graduate engineer of engineering, I may be able to go to a doctoral study because it means an unattainable agreement. So there's nothing there, and it's also an additional education, that is, lifelong education, and I'd like to ask the promoter to explain it a little more carefully and better. Article 26 states that the budget of the local and regional self-government units can provide funds, so we have investment maintenance in institutions. We see now that we're constantly stretching the facilities. This means, gentlemen, that if I am a good judge of my own, then everyone must and these existing companies must be reregistered. I'd like you to give me a precise explanation. They have to, or they don't have to, that we don't have any legal uncertainty later. But what matters to me is extremely important. If the municipality, city or county establish an institution, then it would probably have to be imperative to ensure that there is also investment maintenance and material operating costs for the purpose of carrying out activities and education, rather than being able to. Because that's what got her into having in one good part of the facility that they didn't have the maintenance right, that we had the deroute space, that there wasn't anything else that was supposed to be. So if we're going with that step, then it should be imperative. In this regard, if we have an institution that is in the area of one entire county and is further educated, especially if it is about education of other primary, school and secondary schools, then it would be normal for this burden not only to be borne by the city or municipalities where the headquarters of the facility is, but all those gravitating from one regional self-government. For example, if there is an institution in Varazdin County that schools or graduates for what is mandatory under the Constitution, it is a primary school education. Today, if the Constitution and secondary school education changes tomorrow, then other cities and municipalities may be in line with the number of residents, the number of participants should also participate in the financing of these costs. But also what fellow Sabati said and we should have known and how we have the decentralisation of funds not to give the team, to the local and regional self-government only obligations, but to know how and from which means the central state, meaning the Government and the Parliament are additionally giving funds to these cities, municipalities and counties and for such things. It was also about having free textbooks at last, that we will have from autumn for first-class primary and secondary schools and for their free transportation. If the Constitution finds that basic school is free, then if we want to be consistent to the end, if we want to be principled, we should also include it for students who, in later years, want to finish their basics, when it becomes compulsory and secondary school. But then let's also give them free transportation and free textbooks. Then we'll show we'll have some kind of system in the state. Article 28 also states that funding from the state budget, i.e. the budget of units of local and regional self-government, is given on the basis of a public tender. Now there's something going on. What if the unit of local or regional self-government has its own institution and wants to implement programs in it. This shows the inconsistency and non-conformity of the motionor, the government as a whole. If we have some other laws, for example, the Law on the Communist Economy which says that where there is, where units of local or regional self-government are founders and owners of, for example, utility companies there is no public tender, for example, on supporting green areas, so as not to list everything but because of their own company. Why, then, the institution established by the local self-government units without a competition should finance its own programme in its own establishment. Unfortunately, there's not a word about it here. And in the end, I don't think what I was saying was fully regulated in the transitional and final provisions. I'm stressing and repeating one more time. We also have companies that are now involved in adult education. This law does not stand within what time and when and whether or not they have to stand at all. It should seem to me in the transitional and final provisions that they are due to perform any re-registration. Because we know ourselves is the basic condition of a company is to make a profit. There's something else for the facility. I would like to hear but a rather rational and concrete explanation as to what will happen with foreign language schools or we have and now companies dealing with adult education. What will happen to them, what reregistration, what conditions, what way around the program and everything. I think the law is inconclusive and no matter what I am to pass such a law, I think it would be much more rational and much more quality if the law were to go into work and into third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82462	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82463	My colleague, Korenik, I really want to support you especially when it comes to Articles 18 and 19 of this law. Namely, you mention that agreement between the workers and the employer and about the clear educational leave. I even suggest before we hear the proposal that the first item is changed so that it does not appear that employees can exercise the right to educational leave, but employees have the right to educational leave. Because article 19 and protects the employer enough because it says that the right to an education leave can be realised with a salary or without compensation, so he will not give him compensation but must be allowed to perfect himself. I hope you agree with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82464	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82465	I don't think there's a fellow Doric between us. We know what practice is in this country. Anything where there is no imperative is simply made with a slalom and there's nothing of it. If this government and as a proponent of the text of this law have serious intentions then it will be imperative. And it seems to me that this is more for makeup and for the sake of the public than a good part of the employers in this country will live. So I'm up, and I think that you and I, and also other colleagues expect a rational explanation of how the government is going to solve it. However, what is not resolved by law gives the possibility to work with a slalom, and then the application will be much more invaluable than what the promoter might want at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82466	The word has been respected by Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82467	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. Of course I'm in favour of passing the Law on adult education. But I think this final bill of ours should be forwarded to the third reading. Why? Because this law has too many open questions that can actually cause a disputed procedure in the implementation of the law itself, so if you want conflicts in relation to interested entities. One of these issues was raised by a colleague, partly opened by a colleague of Korenik, related to the already existing companies in an area called foreign language learning, because the first reading did not intend to do so, only in the second reading was it installed to enable these institutions to deal with and learn foreign languages. However, this should be extended. Specific laws also transposed and established the possibility of adult education in the field of firefighting, in the area of the Croatian Auto Club, in the area of the Croatian Red Cross, in the area of protection and rescue, etc., etc. So from now on, from this session of the Parliament or last session of the Parliament, when we started discussing the Law on Volunteers, where volunteers will also acquire certain knowledge and education. And in this respect, it is in fact necessary to distinguish the question that this law does not affect the specific training and training of adults regulated by a special law. But if by special law some of these issues are not resolved, and regarding the acquisition of knowledge and skills of adults, then this law applies adequately to such cases. Therefore, this is the first question that is open and that should be dealt with completely safely before the law is passed. So that's one of the differences, let's say, which is why I think we should go into third reading to try to solve it. The second question is very important. The law in Article 2 states that it is a public service, and it is a public service. But the public service itself implies that what is read from the text of the law can be read can be part of the business of this institution that will be established, which will deal with adult education as a public activity and have, accordingly, as a public service according to this public authority. What kind of public authority are these now? In which they perform, they actually have transferred powers of the ministry, i.e. the state, and in this respect meet certain rights, needs, and responsibilities of adults. The third observation is related to Article 3 which also states that, among other things, this informational and self-orientating education which is quite clear among other things is related to this lex specialis, or specific laws which should be further regulated there. Then Article 4 speaks of which all institutions can educate. Now the question is, of course, that associations can set up institutions, but they can also start companies. The question is therefore asked, A), firstly, whether associations can or cannot educate adults in accordance with specific laws, and special laws have properties, in some cases... Transferred, B) whether companies can also, and C) apply at that time to companies where they could not gain profit in this case but would have to have a status as if they were institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that's it. These are all open questions that need to be resolved. And as part of this, the question arises, in particular, what about those institutions that are the founder of local self-government units because of a public tender, not only because it could not have the need, to have the need for a public competition, you know, but it's far more important something else, that if it's the founder, then it's a solid bearer, and it covers the losses of all those institutions if it comes and comes into losses, and it can't cover the losses, on the one hand. On the other hand, the activity of that institution should be planned in its budget and in the budget provided for by the money set up by it. The second thing is if you show up better, the tender appears a bidder who is better, some school or high school, etc. which could solve that question differently. It is a similar situation in Article 5, where they appear very clearly in the paragraphs of creative expression, participation in cultural and artistic events, responsible for the exercise of fundamental civil rights and responsibilities and knowledge about citizens' activities for learning, environmental protection, etc. This is now being done by associations based on the Association Act. But no specific programmes have been established anywhere, but perform and provide certain certificates, etc. The question arises, this public authority that moved there to those associations that have character in relation to this law. So the open question, these are issues that need to be addressed in particular. In this issue of Article 9 on working relationship and work contract is not really resolved because the only criteria that is less than half the working time of engagement... experts in these institutions that would then have to be an act contract, do not have to be, may occur over a certain period and more than a regular working relationship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's about such specific knowledge that is important but that you can't hire another but an employee who has to do it, to train those adults. And it should be further specified that, of course, in such cases, it is also necessary to go with an act contract. And now, of course, this test is being passed, and then by public law, it's all public authority. This should now be counted in one specific article, which is taxed. Of course, when it's said to apply the Law on Institutions, then it's very important to foresee here actually a question of responsibility for solidifying potential losses. Because the losses are not enough through this way of funding, they are not sufficiently taken over, say, the provisions of the Slovenian or Hungarian law to which they are called, and that they are then provided with all the activities that the institution must carry out in order to be able to finance. In such a situation it is possible, especially if "dipping" prices are to be incurred in losses. Now, who's gonna cover it? It's very important and it's a question that needs to be further discussed what might be done. Article 17 may be opened in future. This is the question that an adult is considered to be able to be educated after 15 years and more. So what if we pass a new law by which we will prescribe mandatory secondary education of persons at the age of 15 to the sea in secondary education. So we here have to lead the case. And it would have to at least give an additional qualification to be about a person who didn't finish high school... 15 years and more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But now the question remains what about the law in the future, since everyone has announced that they will have to be mandatory for those persons. So that's the question that needs to be resolved at least if the special law is not resolved differently. In Article 18, this right to educational leave is not the right here is actually that possibility. It must be determined as law. So a worker who does, adults, if he wants to, must get the right for at least 7 days, at least 7 days to prepare and pass that exam in order to be able to pay for it. Let us not forget that the employer's investment is not only in machines and in space but also in people, it's number one. And number two. Often our employers when they want to fire workers by calling for organisational, technical, such and such reasons as the conditions they formally meet and then firing people, and that is precisely one of those reasons because people have no qualifications. Well, you should let that part... But then we need to make it easier and agree that part of the cost is borne by the social community not only through the funding as provided for in the law but also to be further said here if the employer pays then to reduce the tax base in proportion to that amount of funds, which is practically supported by the employer. [[You don't understand.]] It is a very interesting question about Article 21 concerning Article 24 where the Council is foreseen to be the professional and advisory body of the Government in Article 21. It cannot be a council of the professional and advisory body of the government because it was, but in fact, in some of the powers that you offer it, it would have the practical status of a parallel ministry. It can't be. If the ministry in Article 24 is not in paragraph 24 but in 29, it explicitly states that it is carrying out administrative and inspection supervision, and the Agency is professionally performing, then it is quite clear that it is the advisory body of the ministry which is actually helping the ministry to carry out its tasks, with this question of opinion that it could certainly not give the council an opinion as provided for in Article 21 on the proposal legally in the text but could give an opinion on the draft draft legislative texts relating to the government's procedure, because if it were to remain this way then it would turn out to have the status and working body of the Assembly which it certainly cannot or should have in this particular case. Furthermore, I would particularly like to emphasise it is related, Article 28 I mentioned in relation to the competition in cases where the units of local self-government or the state itself or public undertaking founder in such a situation are quite certain to raise a specific issue. However, the question referred to in Article 24 remains It's a matter of facilitating the employer's position. I have suggested that the tax base be reduced from that title when it pays the right to leave to pass exams and schooling, but here it is necessary to open an additional possibility that the employer who participates in the financing of projects and programmes related to adult education, among other things, and because of his own needs, but not only because this is the quality and national wealth by increasing the educational structure of the population, should practically receive additional relief and, in this respect, should special funding be allocated between other adults, it should be treated as when funding historical, humanitarian and other projects that in each of these cases, the employer can and should receive relief or reduction of the tax base... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82468	Thank you very much. The word has a esteemed representative, Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82469	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Knowledge acquired during regular education has long not been sufficient to preserve work competitiveness in any profession and workplace, so the acquisition and preservation of work competence is ensured by continuous learning. The concept of a learning society prevailed after the 1980s, and it was a response to the fundamental features and demands of a new age whose basic definitions are globalisation and networking, rapid technological development, an information-based economy and an accelerated ageing of information and knowledge. Thus, lifelong learning is a means that, in the conditions of leaving the concept of one job for a lifetime, each individual will be able to build on knowledge, skills acquired during compulsory schooling. More and more people are getting involved in the higher education system, and it's been emerging lately, and it's also a category of so-called "high education." Non-traditional students, i.e. unemployed and employees of adults who, due to unstable labour markets, leave the concept of one job for life, employment opportunities or for requalification and renewal of knowledge, are occasionally included in the education system. It seemed to solve the technology, and in the end, the web would appear. So it will solve this educational crisis that has arisen in the conflict of traditional teaching and demand for a new time. On the other hand, data today on the rate of unemployed people who spoke about others, that almost two-thirds of those who are unemployed with completed high school indicate at least one non-compliance, which is these levels of education with the needs of the labour market, which can and must respond to adult education. The technology itself we see isn't enough. The availability of technology and skills is necessary for its use, only the first step to make full use of today's information society. The individual today must be trained to use technologies to obtain the necessary information and to know in a series of information what information he needs and how to use it. Data on 2.86% of adults without any school, it is not important to differ, I am talking about information for Croatia from other European countries, but it is a very worrying information about more than 15% of those adults without completing primary school. We are less involved in adult learning throughout life than in other European Union countries and almost four times the average in the European Union. Of the comparative countries, only Bulgaria and Romania are lagging behind. In 1989, the American Book Society formulated one of the most frequently quoted definitions of information literacy. Educational systems must train everyone to cope with the emergence of information and demonstrate a critical spirit in selecting and ranking information. It sounds paradoxical, those who are more educated more often tend to education and are involved in learning processes unlike those less educated who should have a greater need for further learning. But let me point out the basic differences between young people who are educated and adults who are professionally perfecting what should be taken into account and this final bill. Young people are largely dependent on others in terms of learning material and psychological support, i.e. living under alleged signs. In other words, they are directed by others as adults direct themselves. Adults depend on themselves when it comes to, again under quotes, life management. Most children learn or do not learn what they are told to learn while adults learn best when they see a potential outcome, a result that can be of personal benefit to them. Young people are yet to experience life and have the ability to absorb new knowledge quickly. The adults, on the other hand, experienced life and learned slower even though they were learning successfully. Since young people have insufficient experience, they are open to new ideas and will be willing to accept them. Unlike them, adults have their experience, their knowledge, and can often reject new information if they do not fit into their experience. Young people learn because they have been told that with a degree in hand they will have a better future. Adults expect new learning to be currently applicable in their lives. External motivation, such as good grades and commendation of parents and teachers, has an impact on young people while adults have a sense of achievement, success, self - worth and greater self - respect. The education of adults is among other things a response to the requirements of administration, management, objectives, mission, vision of companies and organisations and is only one segment of lifelong learning, life culture and behaviour that develops from small legs throughout society with certain criteria of professionality. And therefore, here, and for this reason I support this Final Bill proposal, and I believe it will contribute even more to the knowledge society, respecting the criteria of its good application in our daily life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82470	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82471	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we heard today on many occasions that the Law on adult education has the support of all of us, which is not weird. And for a few reasons. First of all, the reasons and its comprehensiveness and its urgency of passing lie in the fact that today we have more than 100 thousand adults behind 15 years of age without any school, more than 580 thousand adults after 15 years without a finished elementary school, which is a frat 700 thousand adults or somewhere around 19% of the total population, a working-active population that has virtually no basic master's skills. One of the most important reasons for the adoption of this Law is the acceptance of the concept of lifelong learning. There has been a lot of talk here about what this concept means and an explanation to what extent it contributes to the overall improvement of life in the Republic of Croatia. I would only supplement that the concept of day-long learning defined by this Law contributes to openness, flexibility and creativity. Another important thing is that this concept of lifelong learning ensures a greater connection with the interests and needs of economic development, which is quite clear that today is extremely necessary. Lifelong learning should ultimately be the obligation of every adult who, in some ways, counts by maintaining its competitiveness on the labour market. It is quite clear that especially new jobs and to keep an old job without the concept of lifelong learning is practically impossible today. Finally, I would just like to point out that 21st century literacy involves traditional knowledge such as reading, writing and calculating and new basic skills, which are in any case foreign languages, digital literacy, basic information, personal computer work and the like. I'd especially like to look back, but there's already been a lot of talk here, and there's a lot of questions that are being compared to this law. For me, one of the most important issues is solving the principle of equality, which means giving everyone equal opportunities for lifelong learning. Because the most important thing is that we can give everyone, especially those I've talked about, 700 thousand who don't even have primary schools, equal opportunities to learn and work on their training. How does this Law allow? First of all, this Law makes it possible to build a system. So far it has not been and it is definitely one of the great features of this Law. So we define this Law of the Institute for adult education, define the Council for adult education, define the Agency for adult education. What is particularly important for the implementation of each system, and this is also the financing of that system. This Law also defines who finance this system in some way, so we have a state budget that finances the implementation of the primary and secondary education programme, we have units of local administrations and self-government that finance investments, investment maintenance and material costs, and it is also open to the possibility of funding also being carried out through the funds of employers and the participants of certain programmes themselves. In a way that the system is flexible. So it enables the employer to influence the programmes that he will finance, and also to finance the participants who participate in these programmes. Therefore, it is one of the great features of this Law. What enables equal opportunities for all lifelong learning is also a way to implement the educational programme, which is very important, means that through the education programme we allow everyone and allow all those interested to participate and participate in it, regardless of their time and any other options, so this Law defines our implementation of the programme by regular teaching, which is quite logical, advisory and instructive teaching, correspondence teaching, open teaching, TV teaching, remote teaching, multimedia teaching, etc. Therefore, the flexibility of this system of teaching is enormous and that is one great advantage and profit that we receive from this Law. All forms of teaching are represented, and the Law provides for educational leave for employees, which is definitely one of the advantages of this system. Finally, I would say that this is the first time that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has approached the adoption of such a law at a time when important changes occur throughout the entire system of education, and it is justified to expect, and this has been the case today and the speech of the proposed regulation especially in part of the implementing rules which I believe the Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will do after the adoption of this Act. I am convinced that the adoption of this Law will systematically increase citizens' involvement in lifelong learning and that it is particularly important to change the education structure of the adult population. All this leads to the conclusion that this law should be supported in the form proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82472	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82473	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Well, right at first, I have to say what I said and when I first read that I was, I thought this law would be far more quality, more elaborate and more complete. It is good that everything we finally get for the first time the Law on adult education, so it is still a shift, but it is a declarative law and it is a question of what will be the achievement of that law, or whether the objectives that have been declared and in the text of the assessment of the situation and the objectives that are to be achieved, will they really be achieved. But first we have to start from the very name of the law. It's said the Law on adult education, I think that name is also inappropriate, it would be far more appropriate to call the Law on Permanent Education or, say, the Law on Lifelong Education. We know for ourselves what our qualification structure is, we certainly cannot be satisfied, but we must be dissatisfied and obviously we need to take great steps on this plan. I expected the law to be divided into two important things. The first is education to acquire qualifications in terms of enabling employment. This is a major problem in Croatia, given the number of unemployed, but in these situations we cannot keep going in this way as the Croatian Employment Service does, requalifications are being carried out, qualifications or masquerade it for an unknown employer and ultimately a new qualification is being completed, requalification remains pending at the Croatian Employment Service. So in this part, it is not well emulated and this entire system is designed so that it seems to me that it will initially benefit the most from institutions, institutions and private and others that are involved in education, and let's just say it will not be achieved in terms of enabling employment. The second is a normal part of education that goes after the acquisition of new knowledge and new skills, and I think we should remember those Socrates statements that are always current: "I know I don't." Therefore, he was aware at that time, and he knew the most in his environment in which he lived, he was aware that he did not know, and that ignorance today is more and more of an effective form of combating globalisation and everything that is happening in Croatia and that Croatia is unfortunately not excluded from globalisation, that globalisation can be fought by self-awareness and education, and that Croatia is in a rather unfavourable position, and therefore, I also agree with Mr Arlovic that it might be smarter if this law were addressed to a third reading. So it's a good thing we're getting the law, but it's not a good thing we don't know, what we're not going to achieve and what we thought would happen in this legal text. So there's a lot of problems, there's a lot of dilemmas, and I think it's still a declaration law. When the provisions themselves are considered, it is also visible in the text itself, I will not mention that article 18 concerning participation in programmes, says the exercise of the right to educational leave determines working and employer by agreement. If there's no agreement, if the employer doesn't agree, there's no leave, and what does it mean, seven days, say, if a man goes to school? What does seven days of a calendar year mean? It doesn't mean anything. So sometimes we have had what education from work, education with work, but we need to be aware of the facts a small step is, but it won't be much achieved in terms of fixing everything we need to fix because the fact itself, look what's happening to us. Only 15,000 new jobs have been opened in Croatia for the last three years. We have highly educated young people 35,000 waiting for 4 to 5 years of first job. They've been waiting for 4 to 5 years for the first job, and the first job they get for a certain time, and then how can we talk about population policy, about everything that needs to be done when we obviously don't have any. In this education, it is necessary in terms of employment, and everything needs one real economic strategy for Croatia's development, but what we are going to do next is difficult to have these economic strategies, because everything we value is sold out, sold out and we will not have and build on such a strategy. Therefore, we cannot talk about education permanently, about education throughout life if we do not have all the other important levers such as the possibility of opening new jobs that man knows that retraining, retraining, that's what's important to him, that's what a lot of people go to requalifications, prequalifications to get education on the basis of which they can get a job. So, we should work out this idea of education in terms of requalification and qualifications related to employment for a well-known employer so that we can come up with this system because as it is, a step is in relation to what we have but it's not what we all want here to strengthen and improve the educational structure of the Croatian population, that people who are at the Bureau of Employment with retraining, qualifications when they end up expecting employment. And most importantly, the youth with higher education can finally hope not to leave Croatia, that they will be able to get a job in Croatia. But I'm saying there are a lot of factors that we still need to supplement to get a system that will respond to everything that we probably all want here, that there is no political bickering but it is real and certainly all of us want to have as many educational people in Croatia as possible, that we have as few unemployed people as possible, that the standard of living of Croatian citizens is getting better. So, I think the government in that part should act not partially, that each ministry does its part, that it's not connected to the whole system as a whole and see if these achievements are planned, what kind of educational structure is it going to be in 2011 or beyond, are we going to be able to implement it, are we going to implement it? This is what it means, it's a step forward, but I'm telling the two of you that it's going to be done the way we all want it to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82474	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82475	Only one thing intrigued me was my colleague Kovacevic's discussion about the change in the name of the law itself, saying it should be permanent. So the whole law and all this content within it implies that it is permanent. I mean why apriors take it partially, the title itself. The title itself, which is why you take it apriori partially, that it should be immediately attached to it, because, among other things, it is based on a concept that is the UNESCO General Conference in '76. the year accepted as an adult education where it says that regardless of whether an adult develops his ability, his knowledge, improves technical or professional qualifications throughout or reroutes them and leads to changes in his attitudes etc. Well, I just wanted to say, I think it's exactly the definition of this concept as lifelong learning, I think it's unnecessary to put it in the title itself, because it's actually literally to be understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82476	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82477	He just gave his colleague more arguments, which is why the name of the law itself is not appropriate. Because what does grown-up mean? And if we're standing up for a grown-up, what does it mean to you grown-up? Did you grow up 15 years, was he 11 years old, grew up 60 years? You can see in the title itself that it's a bad name. That's why we're going to the variant of being a law and a 60-year-old man has the right to be educated. Therefore, but we put the title of the law, the Law of Lifelong Education, or of permanent education. [[Intruder: There.]] But not the Law on adult education. What's grown up? At 11 years of age, biological maturity is achieved. But already... How can you not understand me? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I want the name of the law to be such that it is already seen in the name of the law that is matter and what is regulated. Well, that's a fundamental principle right in determining the name of the law. Yeah. ... And I need to read... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I read the title of the law and everything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But... Well, because it's in there, it's supposed to be written outside. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's why.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82478	Replica, the distinguished representative of Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm not going to continue my replica in this spirit, and I was thinking, but my colleague Buchanan beat me to it. But I will continue on it, so I will say, colleague Kovacevic said it was a small step but a good step in the field of this education, but I would say it is great because the foundation and concept of this law is changing the way. Why? So far, in adult education, we have meant what you said, that it is an education for requalification, a qualification. Now this is a lifelong education. So, and education at the workplace where you work to improve, for new knowledge, for the development of technology. However, I think another law will help us in this and that government provision to extend compulsory education, which means that secondary education becomes mandatory. Whether it ends at 11 or 12 depends on the profession for which the child is enrolled. Well, I think we need to pay special attention to the enrolment. That we don't have to educate young people for occupations where they can't get a job. Today, you have too many hairdressers and merchants at the Employment Offices and you do not have certain occupations. And then comes the student, now we call him a student, a student, graduates from high school at 17 and enrolls at this point, I'm talking about the current situation in adult education and retraining. I think this concept based on lifelong learning and this decision is going to extend and thus fix the plan of enrolment in high school, because first of all we need to change the enrolment plan, it's also about the school network. So that's what education means for the economy, for the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82480	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82481	Well, that's exactly what I'm talking about, Mr. Vice President, my dear colleagues and colleagues, because it's supposed to be a whole system. Namely, let's just take the situation to say in the Bjelovar-Belova County, there is no secondaryly appropriate agricultural school, which should be. And let's say in Chazma, there's a high school that deals with education for the purposes of Chazmatrans, and we know what it's like in the Chazmatrans situation. So this is all saying that it's not a fully designed system. You understand? So, we educate people for occupations, and already in this area, they won't have the opportunity to work because they don't have to. So that's why I said this was a small step, but we're not going to achieve what we all want with this law. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82482	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82483	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! By reading the text of the final proposal of the Law on adult education, it was concluded that it was primarily intended to regulate education processes through work, regardless of whether it was a schooling, a narrow specialisation for a particular workplace, retraining, education for a higher degree of education or other kind of education. So the intention itself is very positive and it's good that we want to regulate that area. However, reading certain articles imposes certain questions and dilemmas on me. So I'll take my turn. Paragraph 1 of Article 18 states that employees may exercise the right to educational leave for participation in adult education programmes. A better formulation instead of words may be entitled to education that would automatically imply that it can be achieved and used. Furthermore, Article 2 of the same article states that educational leave is determined by the worker and the employer by agreement. What does that mean exactly? What kind of agreement is this? What if the agreement isn't reached? Does this mean that in this case a worker cannot exercise the right to an educational leave? Paragraph 1 of Article 19 states that the right to educational leave may be effected with a remuneration or without compensation. I guess leave alone can be realized with or without a fee, not a right to leave, so that needs to be fixed. On the other hand, I think the laws serve to determine what has to be and not what can be done because what is generally a matter of goodwill and obligation, so it is not a matter of writing in law. Therefore, I think that this item should be specified in a way that makes it an employer's obligation if it is about education for the needs of the workplace where the worker works or will eventually work. As regards these remarks, I have submitted three amendments, which I hope will be accepted because they allow for a uniform definition of the rights and obligations of workers and employers. Article 20 introduces the Council and the Agency for the Education of Adults but does not specify the time limit for the appointment of the Council or the establishment of the Agency as well as who is the founder and where it is established. The text of Articles 21 to 23 indicates that the roles of the councils and agencies are overlapping with the monitoring and development of the system and that both bodies play a professional and advisory role. In the financing chapter of Article 25, paragraph 2, says the state is financing secondary education for persons who have completed only primary school and, quote: "other education programmes". I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary of State, which are other programs, I don't understand from this formulation. Article 26 further states that local and regional self-governments can provide funds for certain numbered costs of institutions to which it is the founder. Which means I can? If they do not or do not have the means, the law does not commit them to any other state, so the question is, who will really finance these programmes or who will refund those costs? It is also similar to Article 27 relating to the financing of equipment and innovative programmes but the choice will or will not be financed, and not the obligation in this case other than local and regional self-government is extended to the state as well. So one more can and one more doesn't have to. Given that it is important chapters that require more complex changes, I urge the applicant to specify its amendments the area of the "Following and development of adult education" chapter as well as the chapter of financing adult education in order to avoid doubts about the powers and areas of the activities of the Council and adult education agencies, as well as to specify the funding of programmes and institutions for their implementation. I wonder from all this, what is the real intention of the promoter. Is it just a declaration of support to these programs or is it really an intention to regulate this area by law? If this is different and I really hope it is, then the whole text should be thrown out of words like I can, can or similar that give the choice to whoever decides on financing, and that choice especially when it comes to private employers will normally be at the expense of workers. Finally, after these discussions, I would like to join my colleague Arlovic's proposal to refer this bill to the third reading in order to unambiguously determine all the doubting provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82484	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82485	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would notice that there is a certain inconsistencies in this bill. In fact, the law puts two separate problems into one text. The first problem is education in primary school and high school education, in primary school for those who failed to finish elementary school by 15, high school for those who failed to finish high school by 19. And the other problem is lifelong education for those who have done all this in regular schools but need professional training, perhaps retraining, more learning than foreign language. It's two problems that have nothing to do with each other. And if it had been approached systematically, it would have been one law that would have been called this adult education law where we would have solved this primary and secondary school education and the others about some kind of lifelong education, lifelong learning. It's like this in one pot they put together different things so there's a little mess. Let's think about this bigger problem first, it's illiteracy or poor education in a large part of our population. The two biggest risks of poverty today are in Croatia. It's an education and an age. We won't talk about this second risk because it's a problem for ourselves, but there's something about this law that we have to say about the first, uneducated. According to the data provided here, we have 686 thousand citizens without a primary or unfinished primary school, 686 thousand and another 800,000 who have completed only primary school. So we have almost a million and five hundred citizens with or without primary school. That's 37.5% of the total population. That's alarming. That's intolerant. It's a pain in the ass. Something needs to be done. We're wondering what? That's why the government knows what, it proposes the law. And that law says how others do it and how do we do it? So let's see how the others do it? On page 13, the example of Slovenia is mentioned. According to the Law on adult education, Slovenian law in Slovenia provides funding from the State budget in adult education institutions established by the Republic of Slovenia. For material costs and investment maintenance and investment. Programme expenses, salaries, copyright fees and material expenses. Implementation of infrastructure activities. The local community provides funding for adult education institutions owned by the local investment community, permanent material costs and part of the programme costs. That's right, Slovenians. How about us? This Regulation shall enter The state bears only the costs of implementing the programme, primary and secondary school education. So no material costs, no investment maintenance and no investment. The Slovenians have it, so we don't. As far as local communities are concerned, this is being handled in Article 26 where they say, "I can secure the funds." They can, so they don't have to. And if they don't, they won't. So funding on the part of the local community, local self-government remains entirely questionable, quite uncertain and what we can consider here in the law mentioned more declaratively. How does Hungary do that? That's what it says on page 14 of this bill. The Hungarian law provides for the tax relief of taxpayers to assist this education in accordance with specific laws. When we as a SDP, as a parliamentary party here we proposed tax relief. So the same thing the Hungarians have. Same thing. Nothing new. It's not a very smart thing. To introduce tax reliefs for the purchase of computers, for example, for learning a foreign language or at all for the costs incurred by a person for his own education. To make it easier for him. Then Minister Shuker here said, "Well, that can't be. It is contrary to the directives of the European Union." So my lords, how is it not the opposite for Hungary, and for Croatia it is. And Hungary is in the European Union, and Croatia is not. How come the Hungarians can have reliefs and we can't? Or Minister Shuker told the lie to justify the government for not introducing those reliefs. What could indeed help to improve this disastrous situation that you rightly state. Let's see what the money is now. Page 25. "The projected funds in the State budget". That's what it says here in the bill. So from the State budget for 2007. In the position of adult education, decade of literacy 6 million 550,000 kuna. At the position of the Agency for Adult Education 8 million 427 thousand 545 kuna. In total, therefore, something smaller but round 15 million kunas. Now let's get back to that information from the beginning of this debate that we have a million 500 thousand citizens who have only elementary school or don't even have it. So now let's divide these 15 million kunas into this million 500 years older than 15, over 15 years of age who have completed primary school or have not completed it, and we'll get the information that the state thinks in 2007 of each such uneducated spend 10 kuna. So now you tell me, so who are you going to educate with 10 kunas a year? And in what way? What magic wand? Which programs can be financed for 10 kunas a year after one illiterate, let's call them that. So I'd say this is just a hoax. I'm just wondering why we're fooling ourselves. Well, this isn't the problem with this or that government. This is the problem of this society. And if we think that we're going to solve this society's problem with 10 kunas a year after one illiterate, then I don't know what direction we're going to think of it. So let's accept Arlovic's proposal. Take it back to the Minister of Finance, explain this to him. Let's find another solution, sort out a little more systemically and really free up the funds. Because if there's a problem, it has to be solved. But with 10 kunas a year, you won't solve it by illiterate. It's only gonna be one law. It says something nice in there, and what's it gonna be? Nothing, zero. I will not deal with all the pearls that are scattered under this law, but one must be mentioned. Please take article 17. He says: "The adult education student can be a person who is 15 years old and meets the other conditions set by the programme." Well, I guess not, I guess not. Because the one who's 15 years old has graduated from primary school, and then you're going to get into this high school education program like, under adult education. So you have to write down who's 15 years old and hasn't finished primary school. Or 19 and he didn't finish high school. Because he's going into this program. Not one who can still be educated regularly. It's usually written to you in, now get, now this adult education is being conducted under the government's rule. That's what it says there, exactly. You could have taken that formulation from the Regulations and brought it in here. But maybe there's no point in dealing with details like this. It doesn't make sense. This will remain a pearl. Fix it. Take the third reading. Fix it because you need that law and we have to work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82486	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82487	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I would say for a start that this law is very democratic and free. Because it's about how it can be done like this, it can be done anyway, but it ends up with the provisions about not having to. We know today how we are when we don't have to do something, and we won't do it. And this bill, and especially the figures that accompany it, is today's debate, opens another dilemma, and what kind of regular education system in Croatia is if the result of it is as figures in the reasoning of the law. And does this mean that we do not adjust the teaching plans and programmes, including the education plans of professions and professions in Croatia, to the needs of the economy or labour market, but to the available teacher and professor's staff. What dictates the plans of the profession and profession that the regular system educates? He wrote in his explanation, and the secretary of state was in his opening statement. For us adult education is just as important as compulsory education. Furthermore, we want to stimulate employers to educate workers, but also to stimulate adults to learn and after schooling. And those goals are not to be permitted to anyone, nor are they disputed to me. However, if we look at the population structure over the age of 15, I quote data from the explanation that in 24,000 citizens over 15 years of age we do not know what schools they have completed. 105,000 citizens have never even enrolled in primary school, 580,000 were enrolled and did not finish primary school. There are 80,000 of them who have only graduated from primary school. A million 733000 with a high school degree, 150000 with a perfect higher school and about 280,000 with a high school completed. These are official data provided by the applicant in the light of this law. Now the bill of law is the result of the obvious conflict between two educational and financial resistors. If we want to stimulate employers to train their employees and people who want to be educated after completing their regular education system. Then it would be perfectly normal for the cost the employer has when he is referred to his employees as a cost of education, to be recognised as a business, to be a citizen, worker, employee, deputy, unemployed citizen who wants to retrain, to qualify, to acquire other knowledge and skills of the cost of tax relief, and to report in the tax card, or tax application at the end of the year as expenses. However, according to Croatian regulations, this is not possible. If you attach a dental prosthetic change account to a tax application, it is recognised to you as a tax relief. But if you contribute to the account that you have been educated for two years and paid 10000 kuna fees, it is not recognised as a cost in Croatia. And now we're wondering why these people, whose fate we're crying about, don't want to go to elementary school. They say it is forbidden, that these tax exemptions are prohibited by some European directives. But Croatia is in a phase of negotiations with Europe, and negotiations between other water and exceptions and transitional deadlines are being negotiated. So if we are leading negotiations with Europe in a situation where we have 800,000 people with only a basic and 580,000 people with an unfinished primary school, do we have the right to ask our negotiators with Mrs. Europe for a transitional period of 10 years to make it a tax relief in this country? Have we made this request towards Europe to allow us, as we have allowed the Hungarians to educate citizens and employers and citizens, to be a tax relief. I don't see it from our negotiators' report. We now adhere to the European Union directive, and we are not members yet. So I don't accept the Secretary of Finance's argument that it can't be a tax relief. And now something that's particularly difficult for me. We'll even start an agency that will train and educate these people. 15 million kuna fellow Stazic found in the budget. I'm afraid that 15 million will end up at the Agency with popular open universities and nowhere else, and that this particular lobby of the mere open universities is, is behind this bill, to draw money from local regional self-government and state, and that no one will ever ask for results. Why won't they be able to ask for results? Do I, please, at the Ministry of Education or some other resort of this state knows who these citizens of this country are, the 105,000 who never enrolled in primary school? Where are those people? Where do they live? What territory? Why didn't they go to elementary school? What's the reason 105,000 citizens never enrolled in school, primary school? Why did 580,000 people go to primary school, and it didn't end. Are those social reasons? Are these the reasons for the inaccessibility of the primary school network? Are those the reasons of health? Of what? And where are these people? What are they doing today? Where do they live? How are they holding up? Where is this 8010000 just with elementary school and why didn't they enroll in high school? What is this reason why so many citizens don't go to school after primary school in the high school system? We prepare to hear, read in the paper the change of the Constitution that high school education is mandatory, and we have 800,000 of them who don't want to go to high school or can't or don't know. Without answering these questions, without answering these questions when you come to the Assembly and give us the reasons that have been present for the past years that we have this situation. I can't trust anyone to do anything about this bill. We can also secure the money. We can also have institutions. We can say it's a national interest to have these people finish high school or at least elementary school. But we don't know why these people didn't end it. We don't even know where those people are. The analysis of the cause, the analysis of the situation in these can only be an orientation to see if this law is at all necessary. It is only then that we can assess the purpose of both the one and the only kuna that will go into the state budget to the institutions that exist, who do everything and everything, whose programs have nothing to do with the need of the economy because they are set up to the profile of existing teacher or professor's staff, or the needs of the labour market. And so I ask the Secretary of State to answer me if there are any data, if you have any information on the structure of these people, why they didn't finish schools, where they live, whether that figure is equally distributed throughout the territory of Croatia or if there are so called "black holes" in Croatia where the largest number of these people are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82488	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82489	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the course of this debate, one sentence is most often quoted, from an explanation, I will do it again, but I will begin the debate in a completely different direction. This sentence reads: "Knowledge acquired during regular education is not enough to preserve work competitiveness in any profession and workplace so that the acquisition and preservation of work competence is ensured by continuous learning." What has not been said in the course of the debate so far when it is designed and the first time that sentence has been used in professional circles in education. That was back in the '60s. Based on that, the Austrian Parliament, the German Parliament passed this law that we have today in the hands of the ancient 1970s. So it's been more than 30 years since the Germans and Austrians, and soon after, other Central European countries began to pass this law. We're only discussing him today. So that's something to tell Croatian citizens clearly. What happened during that 30 - year period when some began to solve this problem systematically, and we only today? Tens of thousands of young people we educated in Croatia couldn't find a job and clearly went to other European countries, headed to America, Australia. We've lost them, probably forever. Today, we have over 300 thousand people on the employment bureau, educated in a certain direction, certain profiles. I can't find a job, and at the same time we're hungry for certain profiles. We have no employees in tourism, shipbuilding, metal industry, construction, and 300 thousand people are on our desk and 100 thousand people may already have gone after bread around the world. This law is very, very, very, very necessary for us in Croatia. That's what we all agreed on. He's late and he's too late. But I don't expect much or better from this law in this form to say I don't expect anything at all. I agree with those who have said this is a small step, a shy step, a timid step, and only so much, and that's why I will support that law, to go at least, finally after so many years in this direction. But I absolutely don't see how we're going to educate those 680,000 people who haven't even finished primary school, so that at least elementary school can finish. How are we gonna help that big army of 800,000 people who finished primary school to finish some trade, some high school? I don't see it. I don't see that systematicity anywhere. A colleague of Vuljanić, a colleague of Lesar, expressed their views on the financial elements already in front of our club and the HNS. I also don't see how we're going to hire a huge number of people with high school who have finished certain profiles, and what profiles are not needed in Croatia? We've talked about similar topics over the past year, two days very often, we've talked about the Lisbon strategy, we've talked about the Bologna Process, we've boasted that we do a lot in the education system. However, colleagues and colleagues, we now see that we are far, far from the goal to be achieved. The main objective of the Lisbon Strategy and the Bologna Process is which? Let's be honest. They were launched to reduce Europe's scientific and technological economic lag behind America and Japan. Croatia has a lot of work to do too. Where do we have the most work to do and why did I say I didn't expect much from this law? Namely, you must look at education in one broad context or the widest context. The country must first have a strategy for economic development. The system of education must rest on this economic development strategy. The technology transfer system, the scientific research system, must rest on this economic development strategy. Their priorities must now stem from the need of a single country for its economic development. If this is the food industry for tourism purposes, let us finance primary education in this sector, research in this sector, technological transfer in this sector, etc. What did we do? Nothing. Then can we put the education system on it? Nothing, we can't. So here we're making a clear error in the steps. What I would also like to say is that for the first time in this law, people who do not have higher education are allowed to participate in the educational process. While we need an aunt in high-school kindergarten here, we have one valve to release adult education into this system and those who are not sufficiently educated. The law also does not guarantee co-ordination of the educational process between the state, county, local communities and the economy. I don't see any coordination. The council and the agency aren't able to do it and I don't see who's going to provide it. So I suggest introducing another council and another agency. This composition of the Parliament, if nothing else, is that we have established more agencies, more councils, more committees than probably any Parliament in Europe. I'm sure it's three hundred. On average, every day, one agency, one council. That's not good. This law we have already said does not predict anything that is very important. It does not foresee any tax relief for an individual who starts to pay for his education, his education, and his employer's not well. Almost all countries that are well-organised also have this point, very clearly highlighted and are freed from the clear users of these systems, the education systems that have so much then and tax relief. What I'd still like to say about this overall coordination here. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't know if you know that three and a half years ago our Foundation for Science and Higher Education, which was founded just before, sent one questionnaire to all state institutions asking them to get an answer as long as it takes 5, 10, 15 years for lawyers, judges, so how long will it take a teacher, how long will it take for a doctor, how long will it take nurses. Do you know how many answers this foundation has received from state institutions so that it can plan registration policy and software policy in our schools? Not a single response from the state institutions, not to mention co-operation, coordination with the needs of the economy particularly clearly in the private sector, almost nothing. I'm going to say one more time what I pointed out here two months ago. I was selling at the request of the Chamber of Commerce products of our citizens and then I asked one of the producers of one of the food products whether, who wrote that it was extra virgin oil, extra virgin olive oil. Do you have an atest, if anyone has examined the contents of that oil? He said, how examined, what examined. My oil is the best, so I wrote it clearly and it's the best oil that's extra virgin. No one, however, helped him, from neither the Chamber of Commerce nor the local community, nor the regional community. Hundreds of people live on the economy, live on education, but don't do an analysis of what we have on the ground, not helping people with chemical composition, design, human education, etc. There is no coordination system for co-workers and colleagues. That's why I'm so afraid these first steps won't be of great use to the education system either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82490	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82491	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. The 2001 census results clearly showed that Croatia must face an extremely low and unsuitable educational level and structure on its own adult part of its population, thus clearly showing the results of the 2001 census. Accordingly, we expected that this legislative proposal, with the announcement of compulsory secondary education, will be the response of the state to this condition, the alarming state, the dramatic state of education, the low level of education of our population. First of all, we need to come from knowledge, which is to remind ourselves that literacy is one of the fundamental human rights, literacy, and education. In this case, we must unfortunately conclude that every fifth Croat is without a primary school and that Croatia hides today as a snake of legs a devastating fact of illiteracy over 100,000 women. And this aspect is very important. In Croatia, although women make up over half of her population, Croatian pupils are covered by less than 49% in primary school, and this percentage does not change from year to year. In other words, it means that it is a pattern that simply ignores this need for equality between educational opportunities and gender equality. In recent years, a fact has also been shown that men, or still, are those who apply more or less, or are enrolled in all colleges. However, there remains one fact that women in recent years have ended up in a larger percentage of them. In addition to this, however, I will also give examples of the percentage of the educational staff, or those involved in the education of children. Women are represented in primary school as an educational staff almost 75%. In high schools about 56% already in colleges about 32.8%. What does that show? That the role of a woman is primarily in education, because we see in the end it is an irrefutable fact, in the lower classes, and above all, and in the whole elementary school, so the whole and elementary school has a largely educational but educational role, and therefore such a task is still entrusted to women. But I'm also saying through such one fact we have to do here and in this statistical representation precisely defeating the result of women's illiteracy. It is a shame that they are listed here and that only the percentage of people who are without any school is listed. If they saw the role of a completely illiterate, completely illiterate population and especially women, that percentage would still be devastating. In light of this legislative proposal, it is well stated that Croatia has declared decades of literacy as early as 2003, so as to trace the UN resolution. We had a whole series of... The seminar. [[You don't understand.]] These funds have also been set up, which is what the Government is now in the context of this legislative proposal and calls for, for the very purpose of adult education and for the achievement of this 10-year literacy programme in Croatia in 2003-2012, 6 million kuna are provided. However, here we have spent precious time. Many, speaking on behalf of the club and here individually, have established that this proposal is in principle to support and is good, in that sense, to define our one common to this need. But here, we have lost for 5 years and since that initial year of 2003, when this bill provides for the provision, i.e. to set up an Agency for adult education, which is intended for an additional amount of nearly 8 and a half million kuna. However, Croatia does not have that much time. This is the 3rd millennium declared general, and also by our government Croatia in the 3rd millennium must propagate the principle of excellence. So, seriously, we're coughing. We cannot satisfactorily conclude this start with our evaluation on this plan Croatia excellent 2. This proposal, which the first of us MPs here pointed out by a colleague Arlović, indeed none of the representatives, none of the clubs have anything against this kind of commitment, but precisely in order to achieve what has been declared because the laws serve this, this legal proposal should experience a third reading. How his norms would be a bond, not just permissivity. After all, the right to education, to establish educational institutions, is one right declared by the Constitution, many international declarations and conventions. Therefore, we now expected that this legislative proposal would create additional obligations, i.e. very specific obligations for the state itself and for units of local self-government, incentives and measures that would then simply drive citizens to education. It's not happening here. It is generally spoken of as a seminar on the government's definition at the beginning of the term of office, and not here now, but in the area where they are not created, I say, certain obligations that a law must necessarily have, and especially does not bear witness to the real and true determination that we really think and what is verbalized. In fact, things are just different. This has also already been highlighted here in the debates, that tax breaks have been lifted for further education. So we're talking one thing and we're doing the other. So, it's a real shame that such a relief is lifted. Also rejected were legal proposals by the SDP Club, which went on two occasions to exempt from additional tax on those aids that should be served in the teaching of individuals, both in terms of permanent education. Therefore, here, I support this legislative proposal, but with one initiative that would really contribute to the intensity of lifelong education, and to the own needs of adult education and achieve, and that is the only solution to make this legal proposal into a third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82492	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82493	I would like to thank Mr Vice President, the honourable motionaries, the Honorable Mr. Secretary of State. Well, maybe I'll just hang on to all my predecessors. Of course, systematic neglect of adult education is something perhaps less in practice, but surely in politics and strategy we have suffered all these years. And that is why our history is marked in this segment with great volunteerism in proposing various adult education programmes. However, what I would like to look at, although there is a kind of tradition of education in Croatia, was mainly a non-sergent approach marked by lack of infrastructure, particularly in terms of programmes, spatial, financial and other assumptions. But what my predecessors may not have given so much attention to, and it seems quite important to me is the lack of evaluation of adult education. In fact, that segment I did not find in the Proposal for this Law, or is not present enough, is not sufficiently highlighted. We witness daily any situation about completed schools here and there, such or such a type, and between such offers of various diplomas and certificates and beliefs, we don't know what is behind them after all. I'm not sure that's all worked out and that based on a law like this, they'll be able to work themselves out. I also have comments on this proposal from that title because I think it would be good if he accidentally went into third reading to process this segment more. Therefore, there is a lack of evaluation of adult education and education monitoring systems. I think that's missing in this proposal. I'll explain it a little bit later. Some of the current trends that can, however, be assessed as positive are largely based on informal transfer of education from which some users do not often benefit enough for one reason because employers are mainly looking for confirmations, just some kind of certified confirmation or written clues that you have acquired some kind of specific knowledge. It is also visible and the lack of higher education institutions whether it is about universities, or universities as much as we have improved lately, I don't think it still meets those criteria that we as a country would like to have. The third and same important thing is that, primarily, adult education should be recognised as an equally important thing, as well as the educational education of all other structures means children, therefore, up to 15 years of age. This should simply be equidistant in the minds of the citizens. So this should give society the exact same importance, no less this and the relation to that first. I also think that we should work or develop awareness of labour integration and learning. Because today and today, education and work take place at the same time, unlike the dominant opinion that you are first educated, and then you work. More and more lifelong education is basically an anticipating and the concept of work and learning, practically at the same time. I'm not going to do it over and over again, but maybe because of the public, it's never said enough 37, from your data, from your proposal 37 and a half percent of uneducated people, so people who don't have an education more than primary school is something that I have to admit to me is actually causing questionable statistics. In fact, out of the 37 and a half percent if we calculate 15% of people who don't even have a primary school I didn't get to 680 grand, but I got to 240 grand, and it seems too much to me because I have to admit, and I asked my colleagues here if they knew anyone in their midst who doesn't have a finished elementary school. So I'm talking about people under 55, so I'm not talking about the population between 90 and 100. So, I really don't know in that population, I'm talking about my colleagues I've talked to here, I don't know a person up to 55 years old, or I know very few people that don't have a primary school, so I think that's a little questionable, so I'm going to say that, because it actually makes me think where these people live. So, I'm not, I'm moving around the field enough and I'm in contact with people, but I haven't seen a lot of people who haven't finished primary school for up to 55 years. The specific problem is the non-compliance of education production and market needs. It's a special subject. In fact, unemployment is not only the result of a reduction in the number of jobs, but is of course also a problem of structural nature. While on the one hand there is a surplus of educated people whose qualifications no one needs, on the other hand there is a lack of people of a certain qualification and there is a clear need for adult education, but with another function. So, according to what they're going to do about it, society should be more concerned about creating a system of education for both, so for children and adults. The focus would certainly be on turning to Croatia's position in comparison with other countries, and I think it is also a little undermining fellow Stazic. According to your data, Croatia had 2.1% of the population involved in lifelong education in 2003. That number in 2002 was even worse, it was 1.5, so it was lower. So some shifts, some positive ones have happened. On the other hand, this little country in our neighborhood that we often know ourselves about, that's what I used to say in my first debate, we often have this kind of joke to do, this country called Slovenia in 2002 had 9.1% of the population involved in lifelong learning. In 2003, he had as many as 15% of the population involved in lifelong learning. To compare the same data regarding the 15 most developed countries of the European Union, it is said that in 2002 8% of the population were involved in lifelong learning and 2003. 9.7. Why am I talking about these numbers? What do these numbers show? In fact, the more undeveloped you are, the more you need to make up for this lack, the greater the handicap, and Slovenia saw it. So they did not follow the trends of Western Europe, but they also doubled to make up for the handicap in their country. I think that's something we should look up to, too. I would like to comment on article 19, that is, by adopting this Law, we should certainly welcome it because it enables a higher level of education throughout the population, thus encouraging the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, but also raising the democracy of civil society. It would certainly welcome the introduction of an extension of the minimum for educational leave from 3 days to 7 days regardless of all difficulties in how this will be realised in practice and, of course, doubtful. It is a significant shift, especially in view of the fact that man cannot learn much in 3 days, i.e. that this continuity of learning is very suspicious. So if you're only learning on the weekends then the question is what are the final results at the end of that. This is how I think that a higher quality, however, remains unclear who will bear these costs, and that has been pointed out by colleagues before. You said there that you could take therefore unpaid leave for it, and I think it's one of the solutions that employers will accept more easily and welcome, but it is in cases where those who work want to take such leave. There are cases where the employer simply needs people who are educated and who are looking for such a profile, and then the question is whether he can pay for it, or where it will be paid. I also welcome the addition of Article 28 which sets out and regulates the funding of adult education from public funds more precisely. I also welcome the provisions of the introduction of criminal provisions. That also seems right and correct. As far as the objections to the two laws are concerned, I see I must admit that in this Law on adult education, it was simply meant to be divided into two segments, into so-called. Compensation function of education and compensation of further training functions. So it is the compensatory one that should create, compensate for what you lost in your youth, but the function of further training consists of permanent training to successfully adapt to all the rapid changes that arise in the content of adult life roles. These changes in the developed world are so rapid and inclusive that one of the fundamental roles of life has just become a man’s role as a permanent student. As a result, permanent employment, employment gradually disappears and is replaced by a term of permanent employability. That's for sure. So there are practically two segments in your Law. One compensatory where the lack of youth is compensated, when you didn't get an education, and you had to get the other one so you could get very quickly... , or adjust to another job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What do I miss about this law even though of course I will support it, because I think it's in the interest of all of us? It lacks precisely those measures that would create a mandatory, i.e. a lack of measures that would be encouraging, tax relief, from various other measures that employers would in some way force to go for further education and therefore, although I certainly support it, but I must honestly tell you that I am expressing my skepticism and suspicion of the pragmaticity of its application. I think we'll meet very soon in this or in some other composition, that we'll change it again for the reason, unfortunately, it won't yield results.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82494	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82495	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It certainly takes every part of the activity in some way to regulate and perhaps it is really good to finally and Law, to define adult education by legal text. However, it should be said that even to this day, either until Friday or when we adopt this Law that adult education has a long tradition in our spaces and that what I have to say in view of the environment, and first of all, given the units of local self-government in which it takes place in a better or worse way, that some of these opportunities have been better exploited and the opportunities that have been provided so far, some have used it in a worse way. So it is not necessary to attach some miraculous attributes to this Law that it will now solve something that has not been solved so far. He will only regulate this part and that is adult education as part of lifelong learning. And it might be good to define, with the programme that the Government has adopted, a little stronger lifelong learning that would then include general education, which should therefore include something called preschool education because we in kindergartens now define, not as preschool institutions. They are called but also kindergartens have both educational and educational segments that are very important for society, so it is also important to create a perspective and possibility for most or all children to start attending preschool from their earliest age. I think I've recently heard in the media that in one European country there's a mandatory 4-year-old kindergarten and it's on certified programmes. So it's not baby-sitting and it's not a substitute for grandma, so whoever has grandma won't go to kindergarten but there's a social interest in having kids start preschooling and that's from kindergarten. And it should also make one further step among other things to recruit or adopt standards for preschool institutions because today they are also not clearly defined how to build kindergartens at all. Afterwards, we have a basic education where on the one hand we are talking about one-way follow-up and on the other hand we see how many holes we have in this and how many people are currently not finished with primary education, in what state our primary schools are currently in the Republic of Croatia, and we are far from the goal of having one shift course in primary schools appropriate to what should therefore be the conditions for a future period or for future needs to be created by students of competence to continue education, or for the single labour market in the European Union. We all of a sudden started talking about high school education that it would be mandatory from autumn. And if that were the case, I'm afraid we didn't even see how many chairs we were missing in high school so we could meet that goal. If we have a hole like this in primary education, a large number of our children don't even finish primary school. We know about how many kids we don't even have in high school. Then I think we need to set our goals much more realisticly than just say something that's going to happen since autumn. Furthermore, of course, we need to see what is going on with vocational education in the context of lifelong learning, because today, unfortunately, we still have in secondary schools directions and orientations that are definitely a question of the past and should be deleted and on the other hand we are too difficult and too slow to introduce new programmes because several new programmes should be verified every year because new labour market needs are opening up. I think it is absolutely absurd to talk about high education at a time when we have less than 8% of higher education in the Republic of Croatia. We should come to the structure that what we have today without a basic, with a primary and with a high school, to be highly educated. Unfortunately, we and these targets will not have a significant impact on this structure until 2011 because so long as there is not at least 20% high education in the population structure we can hardly talk about any serious development of Croatia or this development of Croatia will depend on foreign capital, foreign intelligence, foreign this, foreign will, conditions, temperature of the tourist season, the amount of snow on the roads or on ski resorts during the winter, etc. Now that we have such serious problems, then we really need to pay extra attention to adult education. I'm saddened that in this year's budget we've predicted only 15 million kunas. There's something small about some other ministries, that's one thing. And secondly, there is something small in the Croatian Employment Service. Perhaps this is one lack of this law that should have made the relationship between the law and between institutions providing adult education and the Employment Service because the Employment Service and the Social Care Centres may have the opportunity to suggest those who should have the priorities of enrolment in higher education programmes or adult education in order to even create an opportunity to get a job or increase the prospect of getting that job. Because this adult education, above all, in today's situation where we have a large number of unemployed who at least half don't seem to get a job, not because there's no job, but because they have a profession that no longer fits or has no profession. So we need to go after it to make a big, significant shift, to give these people a chance to get some of the qualifications. It's started with a program to finish primary education, but the program doesn't have its own extension. First of all, too few people are involved because if we're in the first year of a huge 440 thousand people who haven't finished primary school managed to motivate 2,000 people to enter that program, then I think it's a disaster. If we're here today, I think the Secretary of State said somewhere numbered four thousand people, then that program or those who perform it is missed. It's a change of heart from what needs to be. Okay. Not everyone who has, doesn't have a finished primary education to go to school, but you know if it's true that 440 grand doesn't have a primary school, and with us four thousand people go to school, then I think we totally missed it. Of these 4 thousand in Puck Open University in Koprivnica, for example 597. And the Open School of Koprivnica is a bright example of how, without law, huge steps can be made and moves in adult education. So a quarter of those who go to primary education go right to Koprivnica. The open school in Koprivnica has been certified over 40 requalification programmes, prequalifications and secondary school programs. And what it offers to those who go to primary education is that as soon as they finish eighth grade they can get some kind of calling or occupation to increase their chances of getting hired somewhere. And the fact that it's precisely in those segments where we can't motivate a sufficient number of children to go to regular education because today on the market you need carpenters, builders, roofers, nurses, etc. Unfortunately, the construction school in Čakovec and other construction schools cannot even enroll enough students because they have no interest in it. And those who go to basic education in Koprivnica have an interest in becoming an auxiliary builder, an auxiliary carpenter, in order to qualify for employment, and when they finish, they get a job immediately. Here, it should stimulate those who are good to get the opportunity and support so that as many people as possible can just engage in such a process to get a basic interest or some kind of knowledge or competence and get a job opportunity. The lack of this law and system is that the financing system is not defined. We should go after it to be in general 30, 30, 30, 30% of the states, 30% of the local self-government and 30% of the programme. Unfortunately, we have a situation here or that it's all subsidized by the state and local self-government, or on the other hand, that all of this has to be paid by the user, which I don't think is good. And secondly, we have to go to increase the number of programmes because the number of programmes offered in Europe is over 60 thousand and we have that number moving to 200, 300.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82496	Thank you. State Secretary Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82497	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Indeed, I would like to thank you for your discussions and for the development of this law during these two readings. And on something else. Developing awareness of the need for education at the time we live in is not a small task, as someone said these days that education is the black gold of our time. This is the truth and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, this law completes the educational unit from kindergartens to universities and lifelong education of adults. It is a huge contribution that what is already opening schools and other universities as a colleague has shown most in practice because our diplomas, our knowledge so far what we can do on the labour market should be constantly strengthened and certainly correct these statistics that have been downloaded from the 2001 census and statistics so that this is the answer to those who have asked where the data are to change these relationships we have. This law is a framework for this and certainly as someone has said today, there are more levels where all these ideas will be found in strengthening our competences in the labour market and in strengthening what we already know and can. Well, I thank you again on behalf of the ministry, and I believe we'll have this law on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82498	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. The continuation of the session is at 15 hours with agenda point Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on cooperation in preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction, of its delivery systems and of materials related to this maritime route. Continuation is at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82499	Now we're going to the vote. We will give you our word when we vote for a good part, so what you intend to refer to and put into the proposal I will give you my word when it comes before the vote on which you intend to report, and first we will go to the vote on those undeniable proposals of certain passed laws. Final proposal of the Law on adult education. We have a plate of amendments. State Secretary, Želimir Janjic. Here you go. Amendment one, we have eight amendments. The president of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82500	And this time I suggest that the amendments, so on amendments not only in this point, but also in others, we vote by raising hands, go faster, and on laws, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82501	Okay. First amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82502	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82503	It becomes an integral part of the law. Second, MPs of Gordana Sobol. It's the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82504	Same.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82505	It's accepted, consumed. Third, the same representative, Nikola Vuljanić. Same as the other two. That's what came in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82506	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82507	Fourth, Agent Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82508	It's unacceptable. We think that the current formulation is enough. If the practice imposes a different solution then it will later go with this solution. We consider this enough at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82509	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82510	So I don't think that this is how you mark and define the uniform right of a worker on an educational leave. The word has much more precise this item, so I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82511	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fifth, MPs are also Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82512	It is not accepted partly for the reasons that I have stated in the explanation of the rejection of the previous amendment because we consider this type of manipulation to be appropriate for now, so the possibility of educational leave is opened and this is determined by agreement of course. There is no need in particular to oblige the employer to be included in some terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82513	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82514	Well, speaking of agreements, then in any case, the employer will never do himself any harm, and this way turns out to be the law, this confirms actually the declaration of law and not one binding character, so this formulation would be much better, and I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82515	To vote. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Sixth, also representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82516	It's unacceptable. Namely, if the employer has an interest in educating and further educating his employee for those jobs he really needs, then it is quite logical that he also sends him and pays him compensation for how long that education will take.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82517	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82518	An article like this can actually be used by an employer to blackmail a worker. If you do not go to further schooling on your expenses, I will find another worker who will accept these working conditions in that place. And so formulated as I suggest it would be if the employer asked the workers and obliged the employers to allow him to achieve that qualification that is required of him. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82519	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Seventh, Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82520	I accept the amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, but in a somewhat reduced form, so let me say briefly that this amendment would then read according to our proposal. The Agency shall carry out the tasks and tasks of the National Agency for the Implementation of the Integrated Lifelong Learning Programme, the "integrity life long learning programme" and the "youth in action" programme of the European Commission [[/Intruder: It is a technical change. We accept.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82521	We've heard a little bit less. Would you repeat that, please? Is it a microphone or a throat?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82522	It's the throat. The Agency shall carry out the tasks and tasks of the National Agency for the Implementation of the Integrated Lifelong Learning Programme, the "integrity life long learning programme" and the "youth in action" programme of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82523	The proposed amendment was adopted by the Committee and the amendment was adopted in a changed form and became an integral part of the Law. And the 8th Amendment of the PGS Representative Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82524	It's unacceptable. Namely, in the implementation of the project "For Croatia literacy and road to the desired future", all costs are paid by the state. The possibility and payment of the purchase costs of textbooks, which unfortunately are not yet available for this programme, has been opened. Well, as far as transportation is concerned, it's a local community obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82525	There is no representative of the proposer. We have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Secretary of State, thank you very much. Here's one of your throat-enhancing candies... We are going to vote for the Final Proposal of the Law on adult education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 88 votes for and 2 abstentions, 2 against, 2 against the adopted Law on adult education and the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82526	We'll continue with the afternoon session. We move to the second item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on cooperation in preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction, its delivery systems and materials related to this sea route, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 507. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration Hidajet Biščević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82527	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable gentlemen MPs quite briefly. It's about the law, a bill that the government is proposing to the esteemed House for confirmation, with the assessment that it's an extremely important case. Not many words need to be spent that weapons of mass destruction in the modern world are an extremely serious threat to international peace and security. Within this complex, trade and arms trafficking for mass destruction by sea is a particularly sensitive topic and, of course, Croatia as a maritime country has an interest in actively involving itself in what is, in fact, the roof instrument of this agreement, and that is so-called. ... an initiative, an initiative to expand security within which this... [[The speaker speaks English, not understood.]] that is, this long name of the agreement. [[The speaker speaks English, not understood.]] Without entering into any particular reasons for the political purpose of this, I would say that what is for Croatia, for this High House and then for the Croatian public, it is extremely important that the agreement regulates the way, procedures, procedures and all legal aspects of the conduct, including judicial jurisdiction, etc. in cases where the basis of this agreement establishes a reasonable doubt that there is a need to examine certain ships and vessels, I stress outside Croatian territorial, outside the Croatian territorial sea. As for the reason I'm signing something, I've said it briefly. Indirectly, it is necessary to say that the signing of the agreement that was carried out on 1 June of last year, forgive me, that it has already achieved some significant political effects, that Croatia is ready to actively engage in the division of responsibilities for international security, that it has received positive assessments as part of the debate, the debate at the recently held NATO summit in Riga, and that, of course, given that it is a bilateral agreement with the United States and the views of American interests, it is estimated to be very, very important step of the Croatian side. And in a practical, pragmatic political sense, the reflection was already visible if you remember both in the congress and Senate resolution, which both Congress, the American Congress and the US Senate are not based solely on this agreement that we offer to confirm the Parliament but on the overall Croatian activities, but we have received two resolutions that actively support Croatia's entry into NATO. Therefore, in addition to the argument that the implementation of the agreement in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement does not entail any additional financial burdens, i.e. funds from the budget, the Government proposes to the esteemed House to confirm this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82528	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Honorable Representative Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82529	Dear Mr Vice-President, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 73rd session held on 6 July 2006 discussed the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States in cooperation to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction, the system of its delivery of material materials related to this sea route to the Final Proposal of the Law. The members of the Committee are familiar with the reasons, the interests of which are proposed to adopt the law in question by emergency procedure. The Committee supported the position of representatives of the Government of Croatia and does not object to the proposal to pass this law by an urgent procedure, assessing that it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. It sees the agreement as a cornerstone of joint co-operation in preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction and the repression of terrorism that seriously threaten international peace and security. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on cooperation in preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction, its delivery systems and its materials related to this maritime route in the text as proposed by the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82530	Thank you. Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee, Alenka, Honored Representative Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82531	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the 47th session held on 2 June 2006, the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on Cooperation in preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction, its delivery systems and materials related to this sea route to the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 507 submitted by the Croatian government to the president of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee discussed the proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on cooperation in preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction, its delivery systems and its materials related to this sea route with the Final Bill as a parent body in accordance with the provisions of Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee accepted the proposal to adopt the law by emergency procedure in accordance with the provisions of Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who pointed out that this law confirms that agreement in order for its provisions to become part of the internal legal order. He also stressed that the basic objective of the conclusion of this agreement is a joint effort to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the prevention of illegal arms trade and dual-use products and that the same is significant for the Republic of Croatia by a number of criteria. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on the Confirmation of Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States in cooperation to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction, its delivery systems and materials related to this maritime route.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82532	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, the Honorable Vice-President of the House Mr. Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82533	Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let us, however, try to trouble this subject a little bit from a broader point of view than this bill itself, because it seems a bit dry regardless of the agreement that is concerned and the importance of the issue to which the agreement applies. What, in fact, and what should be particular emphasis? In particular, it should be noted that the Republic of Croatia is a party to 12 key international instruments in the repression of international terrorism, including President Mesic in September 2006, signed the International Convention in 2005 to combat acts of nuclear terrorism that should soon come under ratification in the Croatian Parliament. Then, that the Republic of Croatia has continued its support and efforts to adopt a comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, which will ensure, in addition to concrete legal effects and politically, and unite the anti-terrorism efforts of the international community. That the issue of international terrorism falls within the strategic denominator of the coordination of international resorient work and that, in this context, it is necessary to consider in particular the issue of suppression, enlargement, possible proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. In this respect, the Republic of Croatia is a state, party to all universal and international instruments, control and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Members of the relevant special additional arrangements or candidates for accession and the active participant of the new initiatives. In accordance with the support provided by the Republic of Croatia for the principles of these initiatives to combat the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and equipment, equipment and materials related to this weapon, our external-political priorities are in fact set in the coming period. In particular, we would like to point out to me from the Club that the Republic of Croatia, with an initiative to combat the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, has joined us at our national level in 2006 and that, of course, the body has very important tasks as a commission to combat the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. In this respect, it should also be pointed out that the Republic of Croatia sought and hosted the international exercise in March 2006 in which the issue was actually discussed. If the Republic of Croatia had also submitted a request to become a member and some other bodies such as the Australian Group in which and through which certain additional instruments should be provided for, above all, the use of weapons or dual-use goods which could also be used for the distribution of weapons of mass destruction or, above all, nuclear... Of course, in this respect, it is particularly important that our National Commission for also a ban on chemical weapons, and in such a situation, a question arises in what context? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He is further concreteising cooperation in control if we are to say so, it could be said, a Adriatic space as a possible space for the spread of weapons of mass destruction. In this respect, it should be pointed out in particular that the Republic of Croatia belongs to the so-called so-called Republic of Croatia. The American-Adriatic Charter and signed an American-Adriatic Charter referring to the area around the Adriatic. In this context, cooperation has been established in this area by all members of the NATO environment. That they are also trying to co-operate through that part with those members who are actually running for NATO membership or partnership for peace. And in that part, it is quite clear that through this practical implementation of this agreement, Croatia will provide a lot of information which will confirm its credibility and the ability to become a full member on the one hand of NATO but, more importantly, to show and demonstrate that, together with other international factors, it can take care of peace and security, and among other things, which should ensure that weapons of mass destruction are not actually non-proliferation and, on the other hand, more importantly, the prevention of actually illegal arms trade and dual-use products, especially those that can be used for the spread and transmission and transfer of weapons of mass destruction. And for that reason, we from the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this bill and support, of course, the solutions within it. But because of the future, since we're going to have to ratify, we also told that Convention on Nuclear Weapons. We'll also need to ratify the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical, Biological and So forth Weapons. We would like to point out a few facts that are not only missed but actually not used and should be used in the future when explaining such proposals of the law, as well as in the agreement itself, as well as in the basis of its adoption. The first thing we want to warn about is the constitutional basis when it comes to the adoption of this law. In addition to this Article 139, which speaks of ratification of the agreement and international contracts, we were to quote in particular Article 34(4) here. And that's the question when other spaces can be protected or to quote that item that says, "In accordance with the conditions laid down by the law of the regular authority, they can do without a court order or... The tenant of the apartment to drag into a home or room" is said of another, in any case, not only of the home "you do the search without the presence of witnesses if necessary", it is important, "to protect the execution of a warrant for the arrest or for the capture of the perpetrators of the crime, or," this is particularly important for this situation "revealing serious danger to the lives and health of people or property of a larger scale." Any weapon for mass destruction, chemical, biological weapon, actually endangers the lives and health of people and, of course, it would be good to emphasize this part for a simple reason that someone would eventually not dispute from the constitutional and legal aspect actually access or violation of human rights of individual not only owners and shipowners, but at the end and persons on board. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because it is quite clear, and such a situation can happen that there are quite a number of indications that on a ship that draws our flag or flag of a partner who has signed and which is located outside the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia that such weapons can be found and that we can enter such a situation, and that later it turns out that none of it was actually there. Now a question arises on the one hand of compensation for damages, and on the other hand a possible violation of the right because a certain area was actually examined, controlled without witness presence, and this question could not be sufficiently explained to the end. The second thing we would like to point out in particular is Article 3. This exemption is not sufficiently specified in paragraph 2. you know, I mean Article 3 of the Agreement, where the scope of the Agreement is indicated. Now, unless it's a different kind of agreement, etc. But now you have an exception in item 2 that isn't written as an exception but is. Unless otherwise specified by the competent authorities in the case, from case to case, this Agreement shall not apply to political vessels and... passenger vessels, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look, we're a tourist country and it's very important to mean, in fact, the following, that we can have a situation that the bodies that should implement these agreements, and it's about military and regular forces, can practically agree differently on their own, and in this respect we've given them general authority here. The exception is the other way around. Instead of generally applying to travel, tourist and this kind here, but exceptionally when agreed, we have made possible the reverse situation, and I think that this should be taken into account in the future that this part is specific to the truth of the will, given that the competent authorities here must agree. It would take some kind of guidance to those who were their superiors. This is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resolute Ministry, in fact, to give guidance to specify in which cases such permits must and should be given. Of course, this second part relating to the very methodology of communication, etc. For example, a question is raised here, among other things, about the use of force where it is said that the use of force, the authorisation to board, search and retain includes the authorisation to apply force in accordance with Article 9 of this Agreement. It is now very interesting to link this to Article 9 where it is said that the application of force in the exercise of authorised actions in accordance with this Article will avoid the use of force unless necessary in order to ensure the safety of members of the safety forces and persons on board, or if members of the security forces are distracted in carrying out the approved action. In accordance with this Article, the application of force in each case may not exceed the minimum level of force necessary under further circumstances. However, it has not been specified at all what is meant under the given circumstances except in these cases when it comes to the possible threat of physical or personal security, etc. Therefore, the part should be slightly precise from the aspect of international law and ultimately from the rights of the maritime carrier, shipowners. And that, of course, in the future, everything else, including the question of damage compensation, could and should be properly supported. They're supposed to. However, the question remains here that parties are always being negotiated, and yet it should be determined which extent of the damage is necessarily compensated. And the final observation to which, as a suggestion, we point out that in the future there is little more to be taken into account is related to Article 8. These are the measures of protection, as it is said, I will quote: “When some of the parties take action against a vessel in accordance with this agreement, it will pay due attention to the need not to endanger the safety of life at sea, pay adequate attention to the safety of navigation and its." Now, secure... The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Be careful now, secure within the available means and how much circumstances allow it. This is too wide in relation to environmental protection, in fact, and this is among other things about the Adriatic as a closed sea, and that is why it is very important to take care of the part. As important as it is, I recall the question of Article 3 again. Why? For the purposes of this provision, paragraph 2 applies not only to the exception of a possible agreement but also to an area other than the territorial sea, which is not open to the sea. It is an ecological and fishing protected zone of the Republic of Croatia, and in this respect, as anywhere in the world, it would have to have the sole jurisdiction to actually have a coast guard or what will be called our security forces that will control and control this part. The second issue is for foreigners to participate, in this particular case, in the United States. So we believe that these issues should actually be taken more into account in the future for the simple reason that in some ways the Republic of Croatia is given credit as a member of an anti-terrorism coalition that should take account. And the last remark should make sure that not too much of a bilateral relationship, but it would be good for these agreements, such as the American-Adriatic Charter, such as the Adriatic-Ionian Charter, etc. or the initiative to also specify multilateral forms of cooperation with other members who appear and whose ships and shipmen appear in the Adriatic Sea. But of course, it should be an initiative for the future. It's not about this agreement, but it's very important for the protection of the Adriatic and not just the Adriatic. This should be extended in a broader sense, as the International Community has already done to control, monitor and protect the Mediterranean Sea. Thank you very much. We will support this bill and vote for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82534	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82535	Here it is a weapon for this mass destruction, meaning nuclear, chemical, biological, radiological, and it is clear that these weapons should be restricted and prevented by conventions. But it's also the fact that the United States and the fact that it owns the most is that it's being abused by the United States of America. Here I would also like to know, among other things, how many of these bombs have been infested with, say, uranium in the Croatian part of the Adriatic. We know about how many of these bombs fell I don't know about Kosovo, Bosnia, etc. And that in some way these places were great military polygons to them. I also know that without the United States of America's engagement, the war in these areas wouldn't be over when it was over. But among other things, it wasn't necessary to abuse that kind of weaponry. It is also true that by the collapse of the Soviet Union to such weapons for the mass destruction of chemical, biological, radioactive, etc. can be reached as well as any other goods. Pay up, carry on. Croatia understandably needs to be principled. It should participate in the ban on its trade, especially smuggling, regardless of the risks it carries on the other hand and Croatia itself. For example. when the Croatian Government is out there in '98, '99. For years, she handed over another man to an Egyptian organization, whether Al'Quaide or some such, to whom, the United States immediately followed the response by planting a bomb under a police station in Rijeka. Fortunately then, in '98, '99. There were no casualties for years. So Croatia must absolutely participate in such measures, but we must also take risks that could follow with the response of terrorist groups, because this risk is less than immediate danger if someone subsequently abuses that weaponry. The deal was signed by 50 countries. The Croatian fleet is absolutely modest and I doubt it will prevent anything, reveal, stop, but it should be clearly involved, it should be tried. In my opinion, the key articles are articles, Article 4. Actions outside the territorial sea, paragraph 1 which literally states that a party who is suspected of being a vessel that shows its nationality is located outside any territorial sea of the State may request assistance from another party in preventing the use of the vessel for that purpose. The party requested by the aid will provide the same in accordance with the normal means available. And of course Article 5. Court jurisdiction over their retained vessels. It is said here that the jurisdiction of the parties, in all cases provided for in Article 4 relating to vessels of some of the parties located outside the territorial seas, that State, that party will have jurisdiction over the retained vessel, cargo and/or persons on it, including the confiscation, confiscation, arrest and prosecution, the Party with jurisdiction may, in accordance with its Constitution and laws, waive the jurisdiction of the other Party against that vessel, the burden, and/or persons on it. Does this article of the Republic of Croatia in any way give way to part of its legal sovereignty to the United States of America? It may also be better for the jurisdiction of the court to have the United States than Croatia, but measures later on of possible retaliatory action as in the case of the river's appropriateness should not be so easily excluded. It's clear we're not in a club against this agreement. He's a reality. Nothing important will happen to me whether I sign him or not. However, they needed to sign it because of political pragmatism itself. Are we going to be safer because of such an agreement? Maybe, though I doubt it. But it's kind of good to be at a source of information. And in so much and therefore we support.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82536	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP club, distinguished representative Tonči Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82537	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. This is one of the strangest agreements that has ever come to the Croatian Parliament, which draws with it a series of doubts and not only in order to apply it in an efficient way, but also in terms of removing unwanted consequences. So in the introductory part of this agreement is said to be in... , so an initiative to contain weapons of mass destruction included 50 states. [[The speaker speaks English, not understood.]] It's not said who. As it is not said which other maritime countries, other than Croatia, signed such an agreement. According to us available, information has done so in the rule of flag country convenience. So, Liberia, so Cyprus, so Malta. In any case, countries that have a large fleet under their flag, often foreign shipmen who cannot control themselves well, so it is reasonable to leave it to the United States if they want to deal with it effectively. I remind you, this whole debate is actually being conducted around, about foreign control of Croatian shipmen. And Croatia has a total of 184 ships in its own company today, and it is hardly half of those who sail outside the Adriatic. When you compare it to an Israeli "ZIM LINE" stationed in Singapore, which has several hundred ships or Japanese... which has close to 300 in itself is seen as fears that on Croatian ships there will be something truly proportionate and how much of our ships are actually in play. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Agreement does not apply to all the good luck of passenger ships sailing across the Adriatic, because we would still miss the few tourists arriving in Croatia being searched on ferrys from Italy. It also does not apply to our economic belt, nor to the Adriatic vessels. But what is really strange is that the proposings do not provide for specific funding in the state budget. I'll try to show you why such a thing is really irresponsible and irresponsible. A search under this Agreement may be carried out only on the high seas. This is quite clear because in the territorial sea or outer belt sovereignty is the state whose territorial sea or outer belt it is. So the search of the Croatian ship can only be done by the Croatian state in its territorial sea or Croatian state and its vessel anywhere on the ocean, but not in other people's territorial sea. Similarly, the US Armed Forces may search ships under their flag in their territorial seas, in their outer belts, so that they can be further 12 miles or anywhere on the ocean if they are winding the American flag, but in another's territorial sea or other people's outer belt. Under what conditions is the search of a foreign ship accessible? Only in case it is suspected that this ship is involved in piracy, in the trade of slaves, in the absence of state property, etc. etc. that he's dealing with criminal activities in any case. Only under these conditions can someone's warship be directed to search a ship that sails under another's flag. So Croatia hereby gives rise to a part of its sovereignty under the Convention on the Law of the Sea, in accordance with Article 34 of the Law of the State flag. So the state that has a flag on its merchant ships, in fact it can only exercise jurisdiction over them and, of course, Croatia allows this clearly to the United States. Of course, the United States and the Republic of Croatia, but there is little chance that we will see such a thing on the Adriatic. What about those ships of Croatian companies sailing under a foreign flag? Because we have some ships under foreign flags. Some sail under Malta, under the flag of Malta seven of them, St. Vincent and his flag of eight Croatian ships, flag in Liberia 11, two of the flag of Cyprus and Luxemburg and one of the flags of Bahamas and Belgium. What about them? Does this unfortunate Article 4 paragraph 6 apply to them on the right to examine if they show their belongings to those other side rather than to the flag of the other side, or does this really apply only to those who are engaged in dishonest work and hide the flag? That's not clear here. It is also not good that the agreement excludes the possibility that only members of the Croatian Armed Forces are conducting a search of Croatian ships. This could have been allowed in the event that our American partners saw that it was some kind of suspicious ship, that within a few hours an on-call team of our military or police forces would be organized to be transferred to that ship and then Croatia would be on the ship under its flag to conduct a search. Unfortunately, here, within four hours, an authorisation must be sent by the Croatian ship's HRM to search for the Croatian ship, so that, under Article 7(4), it includes the power to use force, and the application of force on whether or not to be fired, it is not decided by the HRM but by the commander of the American ship who is searching that moment. So it's about very sensitive situations. It is also possible to authorise the retention of ships that detect weapons of mass destruction, but you know it is possible that the ship's commander himself has no idea what's in one of its containers. Speaking of which, I have to remind myself here of this excellent study, it's called a bomb for global trade, so a time bomb for global trade, so far it's the only study of international terrorism at sea and it's not made by Americans, but it's made at Singapore University, but it has a few very interesting data concerning this and that shows us how real these agreements are in its implementation. So in the world, there are 46 thousand ships that dock at 2800 ports. There are about 1.2 million sailors hired and hundreds of thousands of port workers. In circulation around the world there are 15 million containers that cross from end to end of the globe, wave the sea and each of them make millions of miles throughout their working lives, and all these containers together make about 230 million trips each year. Once the container is sealed, the ship's commander has no way of knowing what's in it. After 9/11, Americans began to control more seriously the X-ray containers and gamma rays and came up with a number of as many as 5.2% of the U.S.'s total controlled containers. So 95% of the containers that touch American ports are never controlled. Thus, in the 10th month of 2002, the so-called "U.S." was held in the United States. A security military game, so one simulation that would be if one of the containers had a weapon of mass destruction, so a nuclear bomb or a bomb with radioactive material that would have been classically dispersed, mostly assuming that such a container had arrived from some Canadian port or from some US port, had been tested as effectively as it would have been in that case to shut down all American ports. Turns out, in that situation, only 20% of all containers that would enter the U.S. would be able to control. 80% would not be controlled, but that move would cost the United States economy $58 billion if it lasted three months. So it's about trying to control the container that's in the harbor, and now how someone's going to control the contents of one of the two thousand containers on one container ship. He has a chance to control these containers that are on the upper deck of the ship, but there's absolutely no way he's controlling those in... ships except to get to the nearest port, landing it all together, and then let's go to the tenans, one by one. There's two thousand pieces, every half hour, so let's go, and we'll be there. So that's the reality of this agreement. Of course, all this includes a delay in delivery, it involves a decline in the company's reputation, it includes an increase in insurance and all of this includes a typical question. If the Croatian Government has already decided to enter this system of agreements, why has it not accessed something more useful in our court, which is a container security... So the U.S. government was aware of these problems trying to hire other countries in the world to also test containers in their ports so that this container eventually encounters some control not only at US ports. [[You don't understand.]] 16 ports in which this applies since the end of 2003. ...are usually a port, as big as... ports in Europe or those in the Far East. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In any case, with all of this together, I repeat, the container search has grown to only 5.2% of all containers circulating around the world, of those 15 million containers. So there is really no reason for the Croatian government, Mr. Secretary of State, not to order Croatian ports to join the "security initiative" container, thus making our efforts to pursue weapons of mass destruction far greater. Secondly, if we are already doing so in all our ports and thus proving ourselves to be a country facing the pursuit of weapons of mass destruction, there is also no reason not to order our shipmen to move only in those ports that have such devices. So, of course, there have already been problems by the European Union because Americans prefer to receive ships built in these ports that are equipped with such devices in Europe. It's Rotterdam, Hav, Bremenhaven and Hamburg, Antwerp, Felixtown, Getterburg, Lasspecies, so they're the only ones that fit in them. So this agreement hides a series of traps within itself. For all these reasons, I have sent a letter to our Mare Nostrum, who replied that they have no reason to be against this agreement, which is to be expected because if they said they were against this agreement, someone might conclude they were hiding something. They believe it is, however, the fact that the Croatian side is allowed to assess whether a search should be done or not. It is also good, they estimate, that this is not done on the Croatian economic belt, but they also hope that the government will address the damages issue in time. And here we come to the next question, and that is the damage compensation because in the state budget, despite the fact that this agreement was signed long ago, almost a year ago, in the state budget, Mr. Secretary of State has no division regarding the damages caused by the use of force or for any other procedure in the search of our ship by either the Croatian or American armed forces. And now, finally, to simulate a hypothetical situation. So somewhere in the Indian Ocean, the U.S. Navy intercepts the Croatian container ship, the ship sails from Vietnam, and the container is packed with toys for Goranko Fižulić. They call HRM, the HRM points to a response after four hours because it happened in the middle of the night. The ship is actually starting to search somewhere between Somalia and Yemen because it's sailing towards Suez, and there are hostile countries where it's not very healthy to be with the American warship. All of this is caused by a tropical storm, this ship must not sail into any port of salvation during the search because it is suspected, it is being searched, and all of this entire episode ends with damage compensation, with a fall of reputation and with a whole series of other problems. We're afraid all of this hasn't thought about it enough when the treaty was signed. That is why it is difficult for us to support such an agreement, but we are also proposing to the Croatian government that if it really wants to declare itself a government facing the persecution of weapons of mass destruction to encourage Croatian shipowners and Croatian ports to engage in the "container security initiative". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82538	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82539	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll just say for a little while that we actually have to ask ourselves when the government's representatives are going to negotiate on behalf of Croatia that it is obviously not possible to do it this way anymore. Namely, here too, counterpart Tonci Tadic and counterpart Arlovic simulated the application of the provisions of this agreement and it is evident that the agreement in many parts of the provision has been unarranged. As far as Article 4 is concerned, Article 5, Article 8, Article 9, and such situations should no longer or should occur. So, I suggest that when we negotiate to be on our side a proper team of experts who won't take anything for granted because we objectively transfer our share of sovereignty to this agreement to the United States because a little while when we find ourselves in a situation that our warships will be in this situation to act on this agreement. And in particular, what can come to many different situations that are not desirable, which can also be the reputation of the company that has that ship and everything that is spoken of, if stopped and detained, and only enough information is enough that the ship is stopped and detained to create such negative implications. Therefore, these are the biggest problems, and if Croatia makes agreements like this and, that is, the Croatian Government and its working groups if they do this to us in the Croatian Parliament, it is only possible that we do not accept such an agreement, we do not confirm. Although the agreement in view of the subject matter of the agreement means to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction, the system of delivery and material, of course each of us will support it. But we have to ask ourselves why so unskilled people, why so badly negotiate, i.e. it seems to me that nothing was negotiated here but the system was next. The text of the agreement that the United States has offered our negotiators, under quotes, are neither negotiators because they have accepted it themselves, and now we are discussing something that is a post-festum to say, if we say we cannot accept this agreement, not because of the content, but because our negotiators did not have any interest in Croatian shipmen, Croatian ships, as we would say the Americans would be leading them to negotiate now, let's say with the Russians, whether they would conclude such an agreement. Is he going to make a deal like this? I'm sure he won't. They'll make him fight against, say, preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction. But they're not going to make it, so let's say the Russians are going to give everything we give them in this section. It means he's not trying at all to protect his interest, his ship's interest, his ship's interest and various other situations. So, we need to learn from others, here in this part of the NATO alliance activity, we've met several of us in NATO's alliance how and how it works and in terms of protecting the Mediterranean. How and how results are achieved regarding that voluntary part of implementation and drug trafficking, not to mention weapons and everything else. But all those countries that participated have very different agreements in terms of and protecting themselves as their own interests, but it does not only mean healthy for the near acceptance of everything the other party imposes, because when it comes to negotiations then it is negotiated. So negotiations mean negotiating, not accepting. Because you look precisely at this fact because there are no Croatian ships carrying such weapons, there are no Croatian ships involved in this part, so when something is discussed then we protect our interests and not take the situation for granted to show us more Catholic than the Pope. Probably that the representatives of the United States themselves would tell us that in many situations it comes to this, as we offer you the text, you accept and then we hear that you said this or that in the Croatian Parliament. Well, he says it could've been done, but what can we do when your parents immediately accepted the first. So in this part, I am asking the Government, or I am not asking, but I am asking the Government to really determine the persons who will negotiate, who will find common ground, but not to accept for granted as this case is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82540	Thank you. Finally, Secretary of State Biscevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82541	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. On behalf of the Government, I would like to thank you for your comments and suggestions, especially on the noteworthy observations made by Vice President Arlovic in the context of some future negotiations, but also on Agent Cain, who highlighted the political pragmaticity of this agreement. I understand that this is an attractive subject, although I would not engage in the idea of a scenario when there will be a storm outside Somalia and there will be no storm in front of Somalia. I had a chance to watch a reconstruction on Russian television this morning to reconstruct an attempt to sell two times 10 decagrams of uranium in a simple plastic bag. Therefore, there is no need for any containers and it would be difficult to bring the meaning of this agreement to containers for which special attention should certainly be paid. Two things seem important to me given the character of the debate in this House. Carefully reading of this document I have no intention now, but several articles discuss the sovereign equality of both sides in making all decisions including decisions on who gets on which deck and what does. Then, it is said, as agent Tadic mentioned, it does not refer to other vessels under the Croatian flag sailing in the ZERP zone. It's spoken of. As regards the approval of the activity, it is also clear as regards the claim of damage compensation, I quote: "It can be submitted to the party who carried out the boarding." So, the party that made the boarding in the case, I am now trying to imagine the scenarios of the American ship that boarded the ship under the Croatian flag and there has been unwarranted damage done to that party. Therefore, we said there were no financial commitments under the Croatian budget. There is no transfer of sovereignty at any point in this Agreement and these elements of compensation for damages etc. the words are indicated. The sum of the sumarum and the common sense are the control of the Adriatic, among other things. Not just the Adriatic, but the control of the safety of the Adriatic. It is as Vice President Arlovic mentioned about an additional dimension of the Adriatic Free Charter of the Adriatic Charter. And the third one I didn't notice being mentioned. It is an additional impact on the security of this whole part of Europe within which gentlemen representatives know and there is still an open crisis hotspot in Kosovo and there is still open political, security etc., Bosnia and Herzegovina with all possible elements that I am not now trying to further imagine scenarios who with or without containers, bags or rockets is trying to influence or enter that area. Therefore, the government believes that it is an agreement that further protects national interests against all of the political pragmatics of this agreement, and therefore we propose to the High House to confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82542	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82543	Secondly, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on cooperation in preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction, of its delivery systems and of materials related to this maritime route. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 86 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82544	We move to the next item of the agenda – (a) The report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law in the HR and HTV programmes in the period from 11 July 2005 to 20 September 2006, (b) the report by the HRT Directorate on the business of HRT for 2005 in accordance with Article 19. The Law on HRT to the Croatian Assembly has been submitted to the reports. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information and Information and Media, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Do the applicants want to further explain the proposal? President of the HRT Program Council Zdenko Levaak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82545	Honored ladies and gentlemen of Parliament MPs, honored chairman. The Council carried out its task during the reporting period of continuous monitoring of programme orientation through discussions held at meetings and recommendations that should also be done in a given case with warnings of the obligation to comply with the programme principles. Following the Croatian TV programme during that period, we can appreciate that it has been implemented in accordance with the Law on Croatia worked and TV. The HTV programme had much more public content, but still not enough to meet all public expectations. During the reporting period, we could see the great emissions produced in the house itself, but also the good emissions made by licenses. However, there were also a lot of shows that brought public television closer to commercial television. The Council was able to identify those moments and at all the discussions warned the programming leaders about the observed changes which could be encountered, which you can actually find in our Report. The Croatian Radio in our Report is relatively small. I would like to inform you that during this period on Croatian Radio, only in positive tones were spoken through discussions on the Council and we have often taken it as an example of how a successful programme can be organised and implemented. As stated in the report, the Council regularly discussed the Croatian Radio and Television programme between the two sessions and warned about any failures that occurred. In short, I will only remind you of some of the comments and advice that the Council has been working on and which are contained in the report delivered to you. We initiated discussions on improving Croatian TV and reached relevant conclusions on this. In particular, organised discussions on the public content programme, the Council raised a number of issues adopted by programme leaders through its consultation, and such cooperation resulted in a much better quality programme orientation for the period up to 2007. We referred to professional errors in the implementation of the programme and asked top employees not to repeat them. I'm only going to make one example here. Because of the unprofessional relationship to their obligations and the disorganization in the newsroom, it is simply because of the one day’s lack of news, midnight news that is inadmissible in the organisation of work. Through our discussions we always supported freedom of public word but demanded maximum professionalism. We asked for a report on external production and discussed it thoroughly and pointed to failures. As far as this issue is concerned, which is causing a great public interest but also a thorough and detailed debate between the Council. The debate saw failures and warned of strict compliance with the Croatian Radio-Television Act. As the programme on external production for the purchase of finished production is used, I will propose to the Council that this issue is very precise and transparently regulated by the Statute of Croatian Radio-Television as the strongest act regulating the business of the house. With a special debate on the language and speech on Croatian Radio and TV, we insisted that this issue be taken seriously and we also made specific conclusions about it. They were presented in our report. During the debate, it was found that all the preconditions for educating journalists who, in order to bring the language problem down to a minimum on radio television, we found that there was simply no interest in both journalists and individual programme leaders to solve this problem as quickly as possible and to bring it to a reasonable extent. We warned of the abuse of the position of certain employees. On this note, I would like to point out that we had a case of airing the finished show in four extensions from private production on public television and that this was not foreseen by the programme scheme and that there was therefore no broadcasting agreement. I consciously point this out with the desire never to happen on Croatian television again. When giving an opinion on the 2006 financial plan, we warned the Directorate that it is a little invested in the education of staff to ensure the future of Croatian Radio and Television parallel to technological development. Without intending to step out of the responsibilities of the HRT Act, we believe that this is a very important assumption so that we can offer a better quality program to our viewers and listeners. As far as we were right, the latest example that took place in the adoption of the 2007 programme orientation also confirms. I couldn't believe that there are no journalists on Croatian television and there are 8 hundred of them in a permanent working relationship that can lead one cultural show, which was assured by the director of television or the head director. In order to realise the above-mentioned emissions, an external associate is engaged and... They pay high fees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These and such examples ultimately reduce the possibility of investing in future programmes and obligations that Croatian Radio-Television has. The issue of corruption on Croatian television was raised by one HTV employee, discussed by the Council's Parliamentary Media Committee, on the agenda. The Council also held that there were no arguments on the matter, and it concluded that the whole case was addressed to the State's attorney. It's very transparent in our report set. By regularly communicating with the public through remarks and proposals, the Council also made its legal commitment as a representative of the public. Finally, I would like to inform you that Croatia's public television has been officially declared the most visible public television in Europe for 2006 as well. I personally estimate that this is a great success for all participants in the design and realization of the TV programme, and I congratulate them once again on the success achieved. What I didn't say is very thoroughly written in our report and there are our records, so I'm at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82546	Thank you. Continuing. Mr. Galic. Here you go. The head director of HRT, Mr. Mirko Galic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82547	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There is another report before you on the business of Croatian Radio Television, this time in 2005. It sets out by the standards of professions all the data that are listed on such occasions and I will not spend yours and even less of my or my time together, the time of this esteemed House, to repeat the data that has been delivered to you at the time, which you have certainly looked at. I will allow myself to draw from this detailed report a few conclusions that can be made in 2005. The first conclusion that Croatian Radio Television successfully fulfilled its public service function in the field of information. During this year, Croatian radio broadcasts on average every day for 252 hours on three national radio networks in eight regional networks and 24 hours of the "Vlas Hrvatska" programme, which is broadcast for the needs of Croatian emigration in the world. All these obligations have been fully met and this function, this role and this mission Croatian radio has performed fully. Croatian television broadcast daily during this annual period on average 44.30 hours of program on two national networks, 16 hours of program on the experimental network HRT Plus and 8 hours of program that has been repeated twice as a picture of Croatia intended for our diaspora, our Croats outside Croatia. This time since 2005, this programme has been available to Croatian emigration, Croatians in North and South America, Australia and New Zealand. During this period Croatian radio-television as a system functioned stablely, it managed to provide quality, objective, impartial information which is its legal obligation, it managed to satisfy other than information. Quality and scope can always be discussed. Legal obligations to raise and entertain. That's another conclusion. That Croatian radio-television as a system in this period was stable and ultimately had a positive business. The total result, a positive result of 5.6 million kuna, is paid a profit tax so that the total profit after tax is lower than the year before but the total profit is 50% higher because the tax paid to the state is four times higher than it was the previous year. The growth in income is also significant according to what was planned and according to what was achieved by around 8.8% but also the growth in expenditure was serious and in a certain sense for the future and future stability of the house worrying. Although we have been working to restructure internal relations, primarily business, organization, rationalisation, to achieve greater transparency and full legality, I must say that the growth in revenues of around 8.5% has put into question our intention to control expenditure, to provide cost control for future needs of modernisation and development of the house. In previous years, we have succeeded, this will be our next conclusion, to achieve such a top-level technological standard that Croatian radio-television can rightly be put on the side of the technologically most developed public radios and television stations in Europe but we have not been able to achieve the simultaneous and necessary measure of reorganisation, restructuring and internal reforms. We must have made an appointment, and I repeat that and I admit it one more time. However, from the data available to you, you will see that there are constant declines and increases, perhaps uncontrollable individual items that indicate that no full stability has yet been established on the market after tectonic disturbances caused by the emergence and fierce competition of two major commercial televisions, that there has been a fight for quality and ratings and that there has been sometimes an explosive rise in individual costs, notably individual licences, individual rights and individual services and personnel. It's something that's likely to calm down over the next few years but poses a serious risk of jeopardizing the business stability of this system. The third conclusion that can be drawn from this is that Croatian radio-television has carried out a very broad and thorough modernisation of its technology and has completely circled the transition and establishment of the installation of digital technology, numerical technology in the production of the programme, not only informative but total program. In the center of Prisavlje everything is now digitized, study, directing, news car and this gives Croatian TV and Croatian Radio a competitive ability not to give a competitive advantage over other partners. That's why it's possible to survive a major competitive battle. Croatian radio-television in this respect is one of the few public radio-televisions in transition countries that remained not only on their feet but in the leading place among all transition countries, the only one. Our ratings mentioned last year are leading among all public televisions in Europe. We are undoubtedly in the region the strongest public-species radio-television and per programme, both by technology and by equipment, and by all other indicators that can be seen. We have new studies that opened in 2005 that allow the production of the most demanding programs. One of them has been seen recently, say "Dancing with Stars" and many and all other demanding programs can be produced in our studies that have the most modern lighting, the most modern directing and state-of-the-art other equipment including cameras that we have. I know technology can be used and abused well, it's now the responsibility of software people to produce it, but I'm talking about facts that are evident. I'm not talking about the program, the quality of the program, that can be tried depending on who thinks. The audience thinks it's a quality program. If, for example, it was past, last week 56 TVs that were, of the 100 TVs that were included in Croatia 56 watched the Croatian TV programme. If in the last year of the 100 most watched shows 80 productions of Croatian television, if it is of the 200 most watched shows, TV shows 150 productions of Croatian television and we have really strong and powerful competition, then something is saying about how such technology is used. Fourth, the fourth conclusion is that in that period, with all the problems seen, which have been seen, which have also been criticised, and here many have rightly taken a step towards confirming the value of the public media. It will say that independence about political authorities and politics at all and about the authorities has been confirmed. When I tell the authorities, I mean the financial authorities. The development continued to confirm a high level of autonomy and freedom of editorship and journalists. That effort has been made on this plan, the result of which can be tried differently, to raise professionalism and raise responsibility. Our opinion is also in the house, us who run the house and not run the program that additional efforts can be made on this plan because the level of technological abilities, the level of political, positive political circumstances and the level of professionality and responsibilities are disproportionate. We need to work more and work on it by maintaining schooling, organizing workshops here and not only for the region but also for the whole, for some European television and sending our people to workshops from Brussels to London, to raise the level of professional, professional abilities of our staff. And the fifth, fifth conclusion that can be drawn from this is that Croatian broadcasting is successfully integrated within the limits of its abilities and knowledge into the standards of European, electronic public media and European institutions. I mean, first of all, Eurovision. Which confirms the information already quoted here about high ratings, by recognised quality, about the prominent technological capabilities that digital, digital production and the fact that, in 2005, Croatia's radio-television hosted the Eurovision Assembly in Dubrovnik. Before that, there was such a congregation in Madrid, Naples, Stockholm, Saint Petersburg. So in the big states and in the big cities. Croatian Radio Television has had the honour of organising a congregation in Dubrovnik and Croatia with nearly 300 general directors and directors of public radio and television from 70 Eurovision member states. Croatian Radio Television holds the presidency of the Eurovision Television Committee. Croatian Radio Television has a seat, a membership in the Governing Council of Eurovision. In short, we are very well integrated into this pan-European public radio and television institution and that we are one of the little televisions that has its place. I will also learn that on this plan of integration into European standards we are preparing for the establishment of a training centre that will be for all Southeast European countries here in Zagreb on Prisavlje. Because we have all the conditions to show not only what we installed but that our technical, production personnel show their knowledge and their skills. Of course we have problems. Some are listed here in the report of the President of the Programme Council. There are others who are or are not listed in our written reports. We try to work, however, to achieve two goals. One is development, stability and the other is to ensure in this market environment the Croatian radio-television leader position in Croatia and throughout the region. I think we also succeed in this, regardless of how the human circumstances or crosses of the Croatian Assembly will continue to develop with their proposals, criticisms and support of the institution as the owner, as the founder who can significantly help support such orientation. Of course, I repeat once again with criticism of many concrete phenomena or concrete situations that occur both in our programmes and in our business. Our goal is to work legally properly. In that sense, this report was also revised in the meantime. The independent financial audit confirmed the accuracy of the figures, analysis and conclusions presented here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82548	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82549	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. President, first of all, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Director and Mr. Leviaq, as to what to say about this report? So this report is made up of two parts. First, it refers to programming principles and obligations. I will say something more widely about this, and in the second part about the report by the Directorate on the business of Croatian Radio and Television, Mr. Rožić will say. The Croatian party of rights has always advocated that Croatian radio-television as such must be an example in the objective, professional reporting of the Croatian public. So in the fullest sense of the word, stick to the principles of journalism especially when it comes to public television. And there is a clear difference from year to year between the work of Croatian Radio and Croatian Television. Croatian radio together with HINA belongs to a group of media in Croatia which are the basic principles of working objective and professional reporting without trying to media-form an opinion and without trying what is the worst and is an attempt to form a public opinion. And we hoped that Croatian television in this part would take two steps further to catch up with, say, Croatian Radio and HINA in this part of objective and professional reporting. But unfortunately, although there is a shift in this part of it, it should be realistic or objective, but it is not in so much a sense in which it should be and therefore we expect both from the programming council and from the leadership itself to take appropriate measures. It means that Croatian television in full terms would not participate in the part where it tries to shape public opinion, that is, in some situations even to form a public opinion. In fact, it has been evident recently that the attempt in this part is that only two parties exist in Croatia. This was visible in the information programme around various live contact shows, trying to create a fake picture of Croatia that there was only a two-party, on the one hand the HDZ on the other side of the SDP and there were always such shows of the encounter of only HDZ and SDP representatives as if there were no other opinions and other parliamentary parties at the level and even there was a situation that some parties with their own under quotes with their projects that they had taken to other parties, let's say the HSP had been given room to give their own as quoters of software stuff, the programming projects present it as their own, and about it organised emissions or open or some other forms. I'm going to say that about, say, conversion and privatisation, I'm going to speak about the economic belt. Such situations are increasingly where they mean to be taken, for example, software projects and software ideas from the Croatian Party of Rights, some other party takes as their own and then even in that part there have been cases where Croatian television has tried to make it possible in such shows, without, for example, inviting representatives of, say, the Croatian Party of Rights, whose project it is. I'm saying, that's the kind of situation he's got. Last night, you had the situation of a Puls polling agency and now instead of writing 10.2 according to HSP, HSP received HSP according to the latest survey by Pulse Agency, HSP's coat of arms, and below it says HSS. Such situations or other situations when it was said that seven eight is larger than seven nine or some situations. This is what means such things should not happen on public television and in this part I say again on behalf of the Croatian Party Club I repeat that the difference between the work of the Croatian Radio in this part and Croatian Television itself is important, although I say must admit that these movements have been made by Croatian television. Normally, what was not on Croatian television did not happen. That's the perception that exists and that's always the way it is, or in situations where people tell you to see it was on TV for you, it was there for you, and people take it for granted. And that is why it is very dangerous from this situation if the information is not objective, if the information is not professional, but the information is an attempt to form a public opinion or the worst variant of an attempt to form a public opinion. And now related to this part of Croatia's radio television really has a large amount of money in relation to everything else and related to TV subscription and everything else and I think in that part that it really needs to be properly and transparently displayed that external production where there are problems, what kind of nature they are. But normally more of a colleague, Rosic. I'll just give you one detail that we have on behalf of the Croatian Party Club of Rights. I'd like first of all to hear back from Mr. Galic and Mr. Leviak. First, it refers to that group of dissatisfied Croatian broadcasters who signed the petition on the occasion of last year's debate in the Croatian Parliament, and unfortunately these people continue to address that even though it was on the programming council that nothing was done and today, a number of them were not even deployed, and that part of them should have what the programme council should have and said that the part they signed should not be chicanned or should not be taken any other measures. Now I'm going to tell you a situation that we also got on behalf of the club. For example, music production. There's a director, say Guberin, and now there's a choir singing along with these five different sections. For example, the conductor is Tonči Bilić, who works part-time, otherwise he is employed in Lisinski and he decided to say 10 people in the singing choir, and there were 38 in 2004 and now there are 40. Ten people don't have to come to work. And those 10 people were talking to the HSP Club. Two of those ten people say we get paid, but he says we can't come to the choir and work. And others say who are in that choir we have the smallest coefficient. Veli, we have to sing normally. On us the conductor accounts, and says those 10 don't come to work at all and have a higher coefficient and high wages. So there are various such or similar situations where timely measures really need to be taken. Here below will, the future time is shortened, Mr. Rosic is related to this part of the financial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82550	Thank you. Dear Representative Rosic, continuation of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director, Mr. President of the Programme Council. Here's a few things. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, are we all aware of the fact that we are here discussing the financial report of the HRT from last year? From last year, not from last year but from last year, so it's actually hard to talk to a man about programming guidelines, especially if they refer to 2006. So don't confuse what the president of the program council said. He was talking about last year's report, and this financial report came from last year, so it's not necessary to connect it to each other. Who is actually responsible for this, whether the Croatian Television Directorate which was due to submit a report or perhaps the President or the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament that this report was to be discussed six months ago when this report arrived or was due to arrive, is another question. Anyway, the fact is that we're discussing something from last year. As I discussed the 2004 report and at our last debate, which was also said last year a few things about financing, i.e. the financial operations of HRT which were then allegedly my flat-rates, I made an effort among other things, and the HSP club made an effort to obtain all contracts relating to external production, i.e. contracts concluded with the external production of finished emissions, and there are, among other things, all contracts relating to the purchases of so-called. The soap opera that was actually said in a way that you don't know that it's a business secret, how much, etc. So here are the contracts of Croatian Radio Television with audio visual attractions, with castor multimedia, with fiction d.o.o., with the factory Bitova etc. etc. which relates to the purchase of the finished programme and the finished emissions primarily soaps, but also some other programs that are actually political shows under cover of different contact shows such as a counter-plan which, by law, should not be produced by an external producer, but then camuflated in a program sense, so it is not called a political show because it would otherwise belong to an information programme which, of course, should only be done by public television, no matter what it means. So by studying these financial results on the surface from last year, I can tell you that at the club we concluded that about two thousand and 200, plus-minus 100 permanent employees on HRT produce, so as 100 times less production that is purchased as a finished program. So about one man working on an external production corresponds to the equivalent of 100 permanent employees on HRT when you compare the minutes from this report and the money that has been paid, because for example I'm just going to tell you so you know order size so you don't think I'm talking to you, let's say castor multimedias are the tranches of cca in that 2005. 3 million and 800, but it's much more convenient for "The Theatre in the House" is, say, paid 46 million kuna. So it's not some humble figure, even if it's "The Theatre in the House," I just don't know which house, maybe in the House of HRT. In any event, it is unreasonable that the costs of external production are enormous in terms of the number of HRT employees. Permanent receipts, what can be seen from the financial report, and also from the accompanying simple program you can see that you are constantly receiving some new employees, but I never personally or anyone from the HSP club has seen any competitions, let's just say for the Speakers and journalists, even though you actually have those new faces as much as you want. It spends a lot of money on professional training especially for this joint ministry. However, foreign law offices are still doing the job, although nearly 2 million kunas have been spent to professionally perfect the joint service. A program is purchased from the spouses of HRT employees, which is strictly and entirely unambiguously prohibited. Market minutes are sold to black companies, it's otherwise known, it's finally easy to determine. The legal provision of time limits for the promotional programme is constantly violated, which is a constant violation of Article 12. The law on HRT because these minutes are far more than they should be legally and what I would like to be answered if possible, as it is possible to approve 80% of discounts to the two marketing agencies that work, which actually find advertisers for HRT. Watch 80% off for, say, Upps and Magma agencies. HRT equipment is used to record propaganda videos sold to companies and has nothing to do with HRT. For example, how many times has it happened to any of you that you have received information that there are no cameras available when you need to make a statement, that you cannot be recorded at that time, that this or the press conference or any other press conference is not followed for reasons because there is a lack of cameras, equipment and everything else. You know why? Because somewhere they're shooting some kind of promotional video for some company that's gonna sell it to HRT with an 80% discount. There's still a lot to talk about, but I'm going to say some more things in my personal discussion. In any case, the HSP club will not support such a financial report despite the fact that we belong to advanced small television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82552	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82553	He said accidentally, he said, "I have not yet seen a contest being opened for a speaker or journalist. It's incorrect, usually the HRT works so that the competition can be opened for graduate waiters and chefs, and then they evolve with work into so-called. Journalists, it's sticking to those words of Comrade Tito to study with work and school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82554	Thank you. The head director of HRT, Mr. Galic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82555	I thought I would wait patiently until the end of the debate and then answer the remarks, questions, criticisms, but the content and the way the debate began forces me to react immediately. First of all, I do not know how common it is that the data which is otherwise available to the owners is therefore sought by someone who bypasses institutions that are responsible for Croatian broadcasting, I mean the directorate, director general and director of Croatian television, or radio. I don't know how common it is to present here as metrics the undisputed facts, letters or not to address or unconfirmed information that this or that chorusmaster or director said who would come and who won't. And I don't know how true or how much we can talk about our symphony orchestra that has a very high artistic value, about our tambourine orchestra that has a very high value, about our "Big Gang" that also has a very high value as well as some sections. Talking about them in the section category or some sections is offensive. I, on behalf of the protection of the artistic integrity of these orchestras and the people who lead them, must react and reject such qualifications and such assessments. It was possible to check exactly what is true about our choir which functions as the only professional mixed because of in the Republic of Croatia, which sings for the purposes of this or that of social, cultural, historical or not know which occasions, which finally sang in Vukovar at the anniversary of the 15th anniversary of Vukovar and whose work was never noticed. I'm surprised that the debate in the Assembly begins with such objects or inverts at the expense of people who do very good quality cultural and artistic work for small money. As for Mr Rožic's statement, why the 2005 report is at least my responsibility. In time, as before, the same years in the same period, in the same period as earlier years, more or less before summer or around summer was delivered was available for the autumn session, was available for the winter session. Why it wasn't held, it wasn't my responsibility. I was as on duty as I was on duty today when I came. But that's not the most important thing. It would have been better if we had discussed it last year, I agree with him. The famous external production contracts which are the subject of expression of all the discontents that exist in Croatian broadcasting and related to Croatian Radio Television. There is no serious public television today that produces everything itself, which does not buy on the market. All those who seek transparency and legality in the procedure of purchase are right. But everything we did went through was a revision that found that there were no violations of the law, that there were no malfeasances and that the Croatian Radio Television house was not damaged by these contracts. To say that 100 people on HRT do what a man does in an external production is offensive to those 100 people. I have to defend the integrity of these people and those who organize their work. You who were often, much more than me, in the shows you saw on the benches, you saw how many people serve one show. The very technique of Croatian television, this cold daily drive has a thousand and 100 people. And these are more or less standards that apply to other similar televisions. I was in Belgian, and one and the other, and Francophone and Flemish, and I was in Danish television, and my colleagues were in Finnish television that can be measured against ours. Everything is more or less the same number of employees on television who serve the program. I don't know how the "house theater" was paid 46 million. That information is completely incorrect. I don't know where he came from because it's been published, so far there's been 9 episodes, 20 episodes in total. Every episode in this case would be $2 million, more than $2 million. It's an incorrect, misread, or a wrong contract was planted. If Mr. Rozic had asked me to, I would have given him a real deal. He asked the others, the other way. It can be that way, but then you can either get the wrong contract or the wrong information or you can read it wrong. We buy from external productions what is better or better by quality, which is rated by professionals or is cheaper than what we can produce. Why can external productions produce cheaper? Among other things, they don't have the pressures we have. Trade unions that do not allow to work for more than 8 hours, which after a few days of work require a day or two vacations. So these are the facts that external production is cheaper and that external prices are lower. If Mr. Rožić has information that marketing minutes are sold on black, that Croatian television technique is used to record videos that are then sold on black, I ask him, he does not have to give it to me. Let him give it to the State's Attorney's office, it's a crime, but let him give it to them. He never gave them to me, I didn't get them from anyone, and as long as I don't have any evidence of crime, I have to protect these people here as honorable, loyal people, loyal to this house. As for the constant conclusion that there is a constant violation of the legal time on marketing, I will say that in the last 3 months of last year 8 cases, a total of 540 seconds for which those who did so were fined. ... I, last year there was no measurement of such a time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I don't know how the story of marketing discount agencies is 80 percent. There's a price list, there's a rule book, and it's respected. If someone "Magmi" or anyone else gave that discount, he'd be doing crime again that's punishable. I don't know about this crime, and until I have evidence of crime, I'm going to defend all these people here as honest people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82556	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82557	I am correcting Mr. Galic's incorrect allegations that he said by defending people on HRT, that he is saying that by standing up for the people on HRT that I said that 100 people on HRT are doing what one in the external production. No, I didn't say that. I said the same thing that you said at the end of the day that 100 people on HRT cost as much as they pay one man, so when you add up how much they pay one man in an external production, that's how much a hundred people on HRT are paid. That's what I said. So their productivity is 1 versus 100, and then you end up here and you repeated saying the external production is cheaper, they don't have unions, they don't have different obligations, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82558	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82559	Well, Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting the wrong quote of the director of television. Speaking of singing choirs, I said, I wasn't talking about sections, but I was talking about units, and I told the situation that was illegal, and that's the situation that 10 employees who are in the choir, who is a high-quality choir, don't have to come to work at all because it was ordered by Tonci Dilic, and the director of Guberina tolerates because they don't respond to him, and people would like to work because they were paid for it. That's what I was talking about. You can check it yourself at Guberina and Dilic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82560	Thank you. The word on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community has a distinguished representative, Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82561	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Director, President of the Council. I don't know if you noticed last year when we discussed the Director's Report and the Council this hall was full, now half empty, last year all the parliamentary committees referred their report, this year none, and do you know why? Because we're discussing an institution that's super-saborial, an institution that's supine and supernatural. It is the only institution in the 15 years of this House's history whose report was rejected by both the Director and the Council, without having absolutely nothing happened. And don't stay away from the spirit. Over the next 15 years, I think the HRT will still form into a law that is his duty. So, I will still say it although it can have no consequences and recommend that these reports be rejected, and here's why. Well, first of all, for ignoring these Parliaments' decisions with one exception. The principal, however, replaced three editors recently at the moment when they delivered the truth news, and if he had replaced editors for false news today there would be no report, there would be no editor, no program. So I think we should say something about this, but before I speak about the programme, I have to say about the financial report that is the prototype of the shameful report that comes before the Croatian Parliament and the demeaning of parliamentary representatives. Here's why. First of all, there are no independent audit findings in this report, but last year we had, although Article 44 of the HRT Statute imposes a mandatory opinion on an independent commercial audit. There's no record of the state audit we were looking for last year and we've been waiting for a year, it hasn't come yet. There are no reports here that were requested by this High House, as well as the parent board, and we've been looking for two reports. First of all, we have been given private production contracts thanks to colleagues Rožić and Kovacevic, yet we have received them, it is not true that they are available to us because we have been looking for a year and they are nowhere to be found. And the second thing we've been looking for through the board, and that's what it says in the records, and we've been waiting for months and a year, and that's how high the contracts are for individuals who have secret contracts, and they're working on television that's public. This Assembly, based on the Law on HRT, oversees both their work and at least the Committee, the parent board of this Parliament would have to have insight into these secret public television contracts. What's not in this report, and we've been looking for on the board in this House, it's so-called. family interests in the external productions we see there are. We asked for a report. It's not attached. In this Report, there is no word on the independent financial approvals of the Director-General who, under Article 22 of the Statute, can grant 10 million kuna on his own. So it's above all ministers, on its own, so we asked to see such approvals. We didn't get them. That's why I find it incorrect to come to this House with a report like this. And what money is this about? You probably didn't even read it because you know our speeches here go down the wind without any consequences, but I'll remind you. This nation stands out for television more than the pensioner singles out for additional health insurance. Is there a right to get a proper report? There is. Each one of you, with your separation for this TV, buys yourself a new television set, not to yourself, but to them, in two years. So, in two years, you pay the TV through fees. Imagine if you were paying for the machine, it would cost you a TV camera 62 kunas a month, and paying for a car by the same dynamics would pay for 15 to 20 thousand kunas a month. It is disproportionate to what is given and what is worth. What you should be saying here is that the whole report is really a hilly wrinkle written and that it can't endure even the slightest criticism. I'll just take a few key moments out. The tax revenues are 900 million kuna plus about 300 million kuna from its own activity. So, a budget that's bigger than the four ministries budget. Now I'm going to compare the position of chief director to the position of minister. The chief director therefore has more money directly collected from the people than four ministers. What would happen to the minister if we did the next one? First, in a year, they increased by 8 and a half percent by collecting from the people, while at the same time reducing their activity by 6 and a half percent. So television becomes public after collecting income, and private by production. What should be further said is that the planning of expenditures is these billions and 200,300 million kunas as any years below such levels that they should not even be written, let alone seriously debate it. I'll remind you. The planning that is the weakest side of this administration, and by law, both by statute and by law, also plans for financial expenditures for one year and at the end of the year are compared with the plan. The expenditure is higher than the plan by 8 and a half percent or translated money by 120 million kuna is more expenditure than the plan. Imagine a minister crossing 120 million of his plan. He wouldn't even get a porter in his ministry the other morning. Staff expenditure is higher by 6.5% or 30 million kuna. Imagine a minister who would spend 30 million kuna on staff more than planned. That guy shouldn't go to the porter, he shouldn't even go to his car anymore. Other business expenditures are 14% higher, 196 million are planned, reached 223. Page 5 of the report who didn't read it. Total financial expenditures are higher by 412%, other extraordinary expenditures 418% instead of 3,7, 15.6 million, etc. What does this incredibly bad planning say? That there's no financial supervision at all, that there's no financial plan at all, that there's no responsibility at all for spending more money than the one we're spending on additional insurance, health care. Further on about the walkabouts. One section of income is defeated for me. The income from the pulse of telephones is 7 million 100 thousand kuna. Public television is making money on public impulses and the CEO himself said there is manipulation in these impulses. Think of one opposition party who recently texted by mistake and vote for it in one show at other people's addresses. So, not only are false polls creating public opinion, which is the rest of some decades, but you're still making a lot of money, so just vote and fill the HRT budget with an additional 7 million kuna. Inconsistencies in showing some items, page 53, other business revenues are 141 million. Same item below that 103 million. The revenue from the suspension of long-term reservations on page 11, 82 million a on page 53. 71 million. Five, seven, eight million, that doesn't matter in this report. It's better not to talk about expenses, but for record and history. The financial expenditures of Table 14. rose 319% in one year from 10 to 33 million, the financial expenditure section, and I know what's going on. Extraordinary expenditures rose in one year 51%, from 10 to 15.6 million. Interesting section. After-determined license costs increased by 850%. This means that previous years have been falsified in their report, because if you find expenditures since last year you have to correct the reports from last year. After-determined costs of the past years 371%), from 1.6 to 6 million. So 5 million more than it was a year ago. Long-term liabilities from 47 million to 205 million. Imagine a minister who would increase five times his long-term obligations in a year. Where would he end up? Credit liabilities in this report have increased 5 times compared to past periods and listen to the figures. From 193 million credits to 535 million. In Table 26 you also have a "Hypo Bank" 29 million, "Irregion" 151 million, "Zagrebačka" 15 etc. A total of 195 million credit liabilities which, of course, change the final account from the base compared to what is shown. We don't want to go any further on the financials. A few words about the program. What my colleague Rosic said. National television is a television that needs to produce a national programme and the Council President's report says the following. Program production: purchase of domestic programmes has been reduced by 20%. The purchase of foreign programmes has increased by 21%. So it's not national television, it's international, because it reduces domestic and increases the import programme. What's even more tragic is what we call external production. This external production and purchase of finished material you heard about 100 employees worth as much as one outside of HRT. Why buy a finished program and not produce your own? Well, certainly not because of national interests, but because of financial interests. And it's not about the house. It's about the lobby. What needs to be pointed out here is that a private television house with a public concession, we will not name it for advertising, produce more of our own program than this public television. Of course it's hard to produce your own program because it takes a lot of work, needs a lot of knowledge, a lot of organizational skills, so it's easier to buy almost because the people are paying anyway. As much as it costs here, we've now heard one 40 million for one show, I don't watch it but they say it's worthless. But in the paper I read, honoring the newspaper, maybe it's not true that some soap opera called "The plain people," I don't know what it is because I haven't seen that TV in a long time, paid 5 million euros. If that's true, then I ask that the evaluation of this report from the Parliament rise to a much higher level. It is precisely because of the term for such financially profitable projects for certain outside the HRT registered company that should be asked why the programmes of national interest are not going. When you watch the public television program and when you read, say, page 201, believe it or not, the Homeland War in the 2005 report year is dedicated to three shows. We watch Slovenian television that had a three-day war, every night an hour of contributions from that war for months. This is three Homeland War shows in 365 days. Why? Because ideologically, it corresponds to those who hold such financial interests on the surface. I'll mention that of those three shows, one "Sanity in the Homeland War" broadcast on Fridays at 4:00, so no one would look at her by accident. And when I publicly objected, then a certain Mrs. Simic of HRT answered me, so what does he want, what does he object to Friday's appointment at 4:00? Well, that's what Oprah shows up on. For the lady, it's the Homeland War show, because she obviously looked at it only on small screens. So, for the sake of time, I go to conclusions. Due to the great financial interest of certain lobbies, our public television cannot, for example, donate its programme to the Croats in central Bosnia and they cannot monitor the satellite connection because they are too poor, so they have no program in Croatian. But it is not the interest of Croatian national television because it is not financially worth it. Therefore, there is no difference between our public and private television. Here is the interest but hidden beneath the surface while in private it is legal and legal. What should still be pointed out here in the programme itself is that the most visible of public television is sad and should not be boasted about. In fact, we're paying it like you heard with the big money, there's a monopoly of two programs that set each other's ratings because if you want the first one to be well looked at the second one, throw one film from the eastern neighbouring country, so everyone's going to light up the first one. But it still needs to be pointed out which is the most visible HRT show. Believe it or not, the Weather Forecast. And finally, why I don't think you should support these reports. The institution I'm talking about is absolutely mature for recovery, not a waiting room for diplomacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82562	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82563	Dear Vice President, esteemed directors! Like this, so you don't see HRT in middle Bosnia. You can't even see it in the Ship on the Cup or in Chabra, just via satellite. But where do you come from? First of all, I want to protest the rank of directorship in the event of the replacement of two Croatian radio-television editors in connection with that controversial move by President Mesic in '92. The year in Australia, which all clearly coincided with Mr Galic's appointment as ambassador to France, shows that Croatia is a radio and political television. And now you'd be a little balanced. I'm going to quote Mr. Latina, and what's going on now is that it's just disgusting for me to see that Maria Nemcic has already started lobbying for HRT director and Mirko Galic hasn't left yet. She was at Ivo Sanader's and asked for support for the director of Croatian Radio-Television. It would be interesting to see what's happening here now. Croatian Radio Television, Croatian Radio is the most powerful political I dare say to the country's institutions. You will agree with me that the government is in some way divided between the executive authority and the President of the Republic, between capital and the media. If you're not somewhere among them, you're not here. That Croatian radio-television power speaks primarily thousands and thousands of hours of television program, that HRT power speaks and 381 million kuna of advertising, that HRT's power speaks 894 million kuna of fee, that HRT's power speaks income for 2005 out of a billion 454 million kuna, that HRT's power speaks 3 thousand 564 employees plus thousands of fees of which on radio is 723, HRT 2 thousand 57, to music production 159 general jobs 665. That Croatian radio-television is an interest in speaking, for example, of receiving. There are 474 million kunas on the payroll, 151 million kunas on the outside. The evening leaf of 24.1. like he said. The geniuses, so this is the external production for one show of HTV geniuses, Softic's "Media Spot" paid 75 thousand kuna, "Love in the West" on 180 thousand kuna, "Bitangs and Princesses" on 225 thousand kuna, "The Mad House" on the show of 220 thousand kuna, and times twenty, thirty or sixty then simply calculate how much it is. On 31.12.2005, Croatian customers are asked to receive 113 million kuna. So it's a big business but nothing can compare to influence. I will repeat once again, power is shared between the executive government, between the media above all HRT and capital. Tax, it's a special story. The division of this fee is not fair; this 894 million should be divided into certain electronic media in proportion to the representation of these media in space. I guess it can be calculated. If that's what HRT participates with 100% let's have all 100% but we know the truth is different. Along with radio, he loses primate, which loses primate of the first radio radio, does not participate in that media space with 97% of how many these charges belong already with less than 50%. How much to encourage pluralism 24 million 324 thousand 610 kuna and 71 lipa. And clearly, and it's good for local media, these little local TVs. But what I personally consider to be the biggest mistake of both HRT and Croatian politics, among other things, was the sale of this third channel. I have nothing against RTL, but against simple practice. I don't know why that canal was to be sold, I don't know why HRT deprived it, I don't know how long until today it's even sold. RTL is absolutely welcome, I welcome its arrival but should have come by not taking over the third channel so that, for example, HRT starts to cancel the transfers of the Croatian Parliament tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. So, I'm not calling RTL, I'm calling it Croatian politics. Without state media, without state banks, without at the time the 1990s companies in the state hands of clearly Croatian media, and hence, above all, HRT, regardless of what kind of programme was then Croatia would not defend itself. It's also interesting how lost court disputes are, I suppose, due to the damages. I'd like to know who called for it, why. As we heard, HRT has 195 million kunas taken from loans, at HIPO bank, Privredjj, Zagrebačka, interested in what they spent it on. The income of the house for 2005 is a billion 454 million kuna, which means, but what it means now is a 647 thousand kuna item for the payment of apartments at the expense of some bail. Is it still possible to get an apartment on HRT? If that's how it's supposed to be said, but who gets it? What I welcome is the acquisition of HRT Pula equipment. I was surprised, for example, that Pula has broadcast more since 2005, radio speaking than Rijeka. Pula 6000 786 hours, River 6 thousand 576 hours. I'm also interested in the ratings of HRT Plus, which, for example, can be traced to this transmission. All in all, a lot of numbers but without a review report it's hard to just follow. There are no objections to this, but if we combine it with a report by the Council of the Croatian Radio Television and also in the context of a letter, let's say Denis Latina's representatives, we see that there are problems in that house. We know that no "vis avis" has reached today's business secret response to external production wages and the like. It is clear that salaries must be decent and be high on Croatian broadcasting but what is then called representatives who suddenly become a measure for all. It is not disputed to say that in one Italy, the leader of the "Port Port" Bruno Vespa has certainly paid more in his contract than both the Prime Minister and the President of the State and the President of the Constitutional and Supreme Court together, but the problem when it comes to someone's incompetence and the one who speaks is in a five-time better position than anyone else in this House. But once again, how much was that third channel sold? Why radio listening and HRT share fall is a priority if there is no reason why there are 2 channels of 900 million kuna subscriptions and so on. The HRT system is huge, complex. Calming down all the power must be a hell of a job, but I wonder what it would be like to have no subscription. That kind of television wouldn't survive for 30 days. However, no matter what today, Croatian broadcasting is more free than before 2000. TV must be more objective today than before 2000. I assume television is far more professional than it was back then, and the financial situation due to this subscription is far better than ever, ever. You could almost say it's comfortable. We at the IDS Club will absolutely support the report, but we are also interested in the fate of Mr Galic's first man. So we hear he's going into diplomacy. When? We don't know. Where? We know. And I would even prefer to know who will take over the position of the main man of Croatian radio and what kind of talks are informal, formal, I don't know what started in the government or in the building across the street from this House. I would hate for the situation to happen to us if someone came in handy with someone like the editor-in-chief of some newspapers and came out of the cabinet of the Prime Minister as the head director of Croatian Radio Television. I think that's something to decide on in other places. I know it's going to be formally the head of the television party, but in my heart, I'm afraid it wouldn't be, it won't be like that. We have inaugurated that the governor of the Croatian National Bank is handling the mandate until the end. This also applies to the director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television. And it will be interesting to monitor what will happen if this current set of fines in power loses power and whether that man retains office or at least will make his mandate available to that prime minister who will at that moment receive the support of this Parliament. I repeat again. For me, Mr. Galic did a great job after all. I'm deliberately mentioning him because I assume this is his last report before I leave for Paris. I want him clearly there for the best, and television, television, independence and impartiality. When I say impartiality, then I mean that Croatia is not a bipartisan state like America, Great Britain, I don't know Canada, Australia, but "God me" or unilateral. All in all, the report is what it is. What do we do? It's what it is. There were worse ones. But now just to touch two sentences on the report on the work of the HRT Council. It may be best to come from this conclusion on page 19, and this should be quoted as saying: "Reacting increasingly frequent attacks on members of the HRT Programme Council in printed media but also in other ways in which, without any public arguments, the the thesis that members of the Council are not acting by law of the prescribed duty but promoting the private interests of the Council publicly express themselves concerned that its members in such a way wish to discredit and disable themselves in the law of the prescribed work because of the inadequacy of facing individuals with their own mistakes to which the Council of HRT warns." And it is said: "The competent authorities of the Council require that, according to their legal obligations, they react to the reporting of threats and attacks on members of the Council." No one's there without getting someone's political salary, and even if it hadn't gone through, I'd have said a deal to the two strongest parties. Then what raises doubts about public television? If there were threats, if there were threats, it should be condemned. If there have been threats as suggested in this paragraph 2. then it is necessary to react. Croatian politics, Croatian police, Croatian State's Attorney's Office should do something. And I want to believe that since 3.8, since this report was substantiated, something has to be done about it. So the question is, who's threatening whom? Why does nothing seem to those who threaten to isolate themselves from Croatian society to the intended places? If there's anyone else out there right now. What is before us once again I will say is the choice of a new director, but Croatia is in a pre-election period and every topic in this House or outside of this House will be a "par excellency" first-class political topic. And where will it not be, for example, the source of the future director of Croatian Radio Television? Croatian broadcasting is huge. Mr. Hebrang concluded well. 3.4 Ministries do not have the budget revenues of Croatia's broadcasting. A billion 454 million kunas have been made. This 2006 must be over a billion or 600 million. I told the employees as long as I could. There is a perception of the power of political caste which is only partly true because power is in executive power, but wait for gentlemen and it is good to talk about it. But why might it sometimes not be said that NGOs, under the allegations of NGOs, have higher budget revenues than all Croatian parties combined. They have a total of 136 million kunas. The question is, do all Croatian parties have that much together? Can we stand behind something if it's going to shut down the transfer of these Parliaments? Page 17 of corruption on HRT, we all got these letters from Mr. Latin. I'll hand it over later to Mr. Galic. What did he do? Imagine it came out with allegations that Mr. Latin called a politician on his show. Well, that would be the end of it. Nothing here. The emphasis is on this side of the 17th on external production. Because of the TV subscription, whether it's tax or not, it doesn't matter, but Croatian broadcasting is privileged television. For last one last time, why was it sold, sold channel three? For what it's sold we haven't found out yet, but we warned at least some that it wasn't good to do. Unfortunately, it's privatized. I agree, for example, that the action of NGOs in this material was to be marked on 16 September as the Day of Activism on 25.11.2005. It's a HRT leak. But no matter what I said, we're going to support this report, but I think maybe sometimes we should be a little more objective about the actors who are on the political stage. Because neither is everything so great about them who judge us nor is so black with us who are also fighting for our political space and place under the sun.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82564	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82565	A colleague Cain said Croatian radiotelevision is power. That's what we hear all the time. It's been repeating itself for years. That's not true. Croatian broadcasting is not power, but Croatian politics is a great failure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82566	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82567	counterpart Cain said a new director would be elected, so he noted that someone from the newspaper would go to the Prime Minister's Office and return from there as the director of HTV. This is proof that counterpart Kajin does not know this nakaradal Law on HRT, and I will now tell you colleague Cain that a person, I will not say whether the male or female who will be heir to Mr Mirko Galić was once a prominent member of the Komsomola, a prominent and rigid member of the Party, and today she is ideologically on the Karajordev line from 1971. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82568	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82569	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director and President of the Programme Council, colleagues and colleagues. A few words about this report. First of all, as far as the so-called. the cases referred to in this report. It is interesting that these cases are the ones that come out of the effort to liberalise television and debate within the television programme and to expand the circle of openness on topics that this public and this nation need to have enough space and enough freedom to discuss it publicly and without censorship. This applies to some editors on the “Open” show, which is no longer the case for some shows that have been under special care or special evaluations. I can understand that the directorship and the administration of television have been under certain pressure both to the public and to the political circles. But you will agree that, of course, the role of the directorship and the council is to preserve independence even when there are certain pressures. And I wouldn't particularly comment on whether or not it persisted in this regard. But one thing I can't help but notice is that those who support so-called. The hard, firm, unambiguous truths and established formulas of presentation create no cases for the public, and those who advocate openness, to change such speech and language, they become cases. We know, of course, that this is not only the case with HTV or Croatian public or Croatian media. It is an experience that all pass through who in the media want to expand the space of freedom and space of speech and thematicization, and that is, of course, the thing with us who also perform in public. But we have to notice that when these cases are already listed, then there's a certain imbalance. This imbalance is in some sense the result of a different reception of complaints. And when instructions of letters or in oral form are warned of something that is inadmissible and contrary to the Constitution when it comes to things concerning the fundamental constitutional values of our country, then, of course, something easier goes by those who have a firmer attitude, a dogmatic attitude, and who, as I say again, repeat some conditionally generally accepted truths. I think that, I hope in the report for this year, so in 2007, things would look different than they did in 2005. But if someone's thematicalizing certain questions and certain topics, and because of that, it doesn't mean that others who hold on to some conditionalally tried truths and who rarely reach out to elements of hate speech and values that are contrary to our Constitution don't have the risk of becoming a subject or becoming a case in reports like this one. Why? I don't know that. But I don't believe our public has a sense of sensitivity. It may simply be that these people have too thick a backdrop and support, and then the voices of the public are not strong enough to remove that backdrop and that support in some way and that this thing could become an object of adequate interest. I will agree with you that I am now going back to your reviews in the report, that Croatian radio and that Croatian television has made a significant step. That's right. Maybe not in this reporting period you're talking about, but in the period we live in today it's true, in a number of things. When it comes to quality assessment in terms of Croatian Radio, I regret that there is no more reference to local radio stations of the Croatian Radio, which are also an integral part and an important component of public opinion and public opinion creators. Where the issue of the development of tolerance, political culture, cultures of multiethnicity and minority rights is unfortunately far below what we have at national level. And it would be good, and I think it was my colleague, Gajica, in earlier discussions, who pointed out that it would be good if that segment were taken into account. Although it would help people on local radio stations to standards and that the values achieved by Croatian radio at national level and themselves can achieve not only in the technical or humane sense of that word but also in a valuable sense in the word and programming sense of that word and language. This is especially true for the environments that have suffered a lot in terms of war suffering and where people need to be helped in different ways to form new values of social and their environments and of course their regions. In this regard, it seems to me to be missing in this report. Another thing when it comes to what you say about covering the subject. Here in the report mentions a show called "Spica" and mentions the phenomenon of swingers was supposed to be a problem. I don't know what "Spica" is, I see it as a picture that passes by me when I pass the TV. I know what swingers are, pretty good. And it's a phenomenon that the modern world meets, right? Now that bothers someone, someone doesn't mind. In your report there is room for this topic, and there is no room for how people live in Glina, in Grazac, in Dvor, there is no place for Croatian poverty...... But it is Croatia, thank God. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There is no place for those in whom people who represent, unfortunately, our poor and who experience the difficulties they deserve to be presented and shown in our public. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A good part of Licko-Senj County, a good part of Sibenik-Kninska, a good part of Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovac, not to mention others. Why, if it is not an incident, why, if it is not something else, these topics do not have an adequate presentation to the Croatian public. Maybe it's our fault that we represent these people, maybe it's the local representatives, and maybe it's the ones who create the programming scheme. Why don't we solidarity our public with people who live in such conditions and show all the elements of what's like our social life. About the lack of this in our program, and the fact that there is a surplus when it comes to "Spica" and when it comes to swingers, there is that in your report. It just got stuck in my eyes, and it bothers me. Because this phenomenon of poverty and underdevelopment is much more important to me than to the question of dilemmas that we have on some show whether such a controversial subject like swingers will appear or not. Croatian television has created a problem of creating, pseudo-creating the public with referendum issues collected by other televisions, which have also been picked up by television in the region. With this it seems to be someone objective and in some elements even an almost scientific assessment of what the public in a given period, day, etc. thoughts about a particular topic, actors or a particular problem. We have warned on several occasions that it would be valid for audiences, viewers, the public to warn themselves of the character of this phenomenon, that it is not a real referendum, that there are subroutines, that there are organizations, that it is not a pattern most often also. For some reason, however, one feels that this is important, attractive, and that TV thus gives itself the right to participate in something called the pseudo - creation of the public. There are other ways that this can be done by television, but in this way I am absolutely sure that I am independent of party membership, the party to which I belong least has an interest in this problem, but when it comes to professionalism and the creation of public and public change, I think it is important to draw attention to the fact that it is a kind of prank. And now allow me something that should be mentioned in some way because it is mentioned here especially when it comes to television and television parts of your house, which is a question of the quality of the expression of those who create the program and who are the speaker, reporters or anything else. It is not only a matter of whether someone is really going to say what we recognize as a Croatian standard language, but whether they will really have all the elements of a good speaker and a good reporter in terms of dictatorship, in terms of quality of excuse, in terms of quality of articulation, because you know television is often and has a rare example of people, and I think there are quite examples that are not the best. And if it is possible to strengthen this component of Croatian broadcasting, if it is possible to improve education, if it is possible to make the preparation and additional education of people better than it is in terms of foreign languages which rarely have to know or say properly, but also in terms of overall verbal and non-verbal appearance in front of the audience, I think it is really necessary. Here, Mr. Director, Mr. President of the Council, these are some basic sometimes very abstract, and sometimes unfairly concrete remarks to your program. Once again, it's hard not to notice that the quality of the program is improving. It is difficult not to notice that the space for freedom of expression does not increase but that some of the elements of the imbalance in the assessment and presentation of so-called. Cases still present you will agree with me that it is not difficult not to notice, and that should certainly change. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82570	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207(2), the time for the individual hearing has expired. Here's some more information. We've got four more clubs and 19 more individual applications. It's working today until we finish this agenda. It is on behalf of the HSLS Club, the distinguished representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82571	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear principal, dear President of the Croatian Council, colleagues and colleagues. It seems to me that, fellow Hebrang is right that this debate is more peaceful this year in 2007, it takes place in a more casual atmosphere than it was at the end of 2005, which was, the chamber was fuller, and so was the occasion and, that is, the context was such that then the atmosphere in the hall was more conflicting. Today, there's a fortunate thing or an accident, everything depends, something different. It will be that this debate is actually being held at such a strange time. It's election year time, and now if it's likely that some things are already solved and that we actually, and that we're about to meet who's the heir, I'm going to let myself say, a good director who really did a lot of democratisation of our public television. Regardless of all those remarks that can actually be made on that house because no one is sacred cow or television. But still there, if we remember those 90s and that situation from the end, at the end of the 90s and those forums that in fact somehow sensitized the public that we realized that freedom of the media is something without which there is not one normal and serious state, or society. And every time, every time, it actually seems to me that if you have one different, more moderate, so let's say, an approach that is so impregnated with one courtesy, then it actually feels like a sign of weakness. The public, our public is actually taught and there's also television partly guilty of actually loving exclusion. And I always say that between these extremes there are a whole series of other worlds that also have the right to live. And it's very dangerous if the public is suspended, or if it only reduces to these two extreme worlds. Unfortunately, that's what's happening to us. They say otherwise that this feature of this video sphere and this predominance of the visual media that it is then the principle of "most, that's me". He says, for one mental set, it corresponds to that winged "state, it's me", and for this time of one late bonus, many even journalists act towards, when you ask them, so why do you just show something and not the other, then exactly answer you because of what they represent, have a majority in Parliament, have a majority in some councils, congregations and in some ways journalists determine that in fact the majority that comes from the political fact that they are then implicating it, or apply to the programme they offer us. This is not, in our opinion from the HSLS Club, good practice because that is why things are kind of being simplified and it is really getting the impression that this political and inni life is only going on between two exceptions. I'm no expert on Popper as a colleague of Vujic's, but somewhere I seem to have read to me that Popper said that the power of television is devastating for democracy. And if it were to be this very fact that many of our journalists and editors are working towards this principle of "most of them, it is me", that it could indeed be devastating, especially for these fragile democracies such as the Croatian country which has not yet solved all its transition problems. Well then it's actually actually creating then exactly this atmosphere, the environment that's good that someone, that there's always someone who's going to control the information. One who controls information in some ways actually has the power to, then, teach some other interests that do not come only from the fact that they have information. This is what it is that whoever is ruling the signs of government and people, it would very much, today we also had some press conferences, yesterday we had some shows that exactly this fear of those who have this information and who can abuse that information and can actually use it, not political information to use for political purposes. But here we are, I don't know how long these reports have been filed, every time we actually defend the right to professionalism, the right to autonomy, the right to freedom of journalists, and the right to error. We just thought that when, if and if certain, come on, aberration or someone's attitude, someone's show doesn't like it, it doesn't really mean that it has to be automatically sanctioned. As we have the right to error, and we ask that our right to error be respected, to misjudge, that it must be true for journalists and the media, and that it is, in fact, the most dangerous danger, the danger, which is that we like television, or the media as much as we are present in them, and how many seconds we appear, how many seconds we appear, that then our relationship to television, or to the media, too. And we think that in this, however, Croatian television has managed to achieve such a balance. You see, we at the club think that these reports are properly written and are acceptable in that sense. They also read that certain applications that we made in that debate at the end of 2005 were both respected and accepted. Also here are some specific indicators that say that HTV successfully copes with competitive television, which we think is for every praise. It also seems to me that this way we can say that contrary to these Bennett colors that offer us these other TVs that HTV still offers one black-and-white seriousness and that, in fact, it doesn't, it's very careful not to turn into this world that's so seductive, but actually doesn't solve any of our problems in the long run. But I say the same thing in addition to these commendations, I think we should highlight certain problems that are both subjective and objective in nature. In the quality of the program, it is not said by the experts, in the end it is always dangerous that, the tastes are said in decent houses are not discussed, and let's say what we at the HSLS club think is a lack and should be, that's the home programme. Obviously, it would be very bad if, if indeed, emissions in English were actually more numerous and longer than those in the local language. Domestic documentary shows could have been more and more here because we have no doubt that there are a whole series of topics that could be recorded around such shows. There is certainly a need for certain and financial and professional engagement, but I think television has enough resources to realise such programs. After all, interested sponsors can be found and it is only a matter of management to find them, and we think that including these sponsors in such a type of emissions would in no way distort their independence and objectivity. The same can be said that the emissions of one cultural content. I'm, say, private like this, I'm saying this right now not as a member of the HSLS club, I personally think it's one of the best shows on TV "Other format" that really shows one high degree of seriousness, going on a rather decent date after football games on Tuesdays. And since culture is already mentioned then it is certainly important to highlight the problem of speech culture. In fact, the increasingly pronounced phenomenon of a non-binding expression in the dialect doesn't have to be bad, because Croatia is still between the inga and the country of dialects, but I say when it becomes a common phenomenon and in shows that, by its content, could not possibly support such a way of expression then it becomes a small problem. The same should also be done for proper expression, as well as for diction because television is very common for these young generations and the first teacher. If politicians don't have to and don't have a good diction, then it shouldn't be worth it to the press. The same claim of insufficient representation could be made about domestic drama and entertainment programmes. It seems to me that we and the club both feel that our television is flooded, flooded with numerous speech shows mostly of political character, some of which unfortunately are not deprived of the impartiality of leaders which is not good. Often such emissions are guided by the principle of sensationalism, and they are in no way objective and I say again very often our lives are politically, economically, culturally reduced to a relationship or, in fact, some way to express it is precisely this principle of the majority, and certainly not the principle of quality. It is clear that, if HTV is to deal with our other televisions, it must sometimes kneel before this sensationalism, but I say it should certainly have a standard because it is primarily public television. It is precisely because of such access to individual emissions that it is impossible in the end to reach an objective conclusion based on the face-to-face of equal participants. It's important to emphasize one common phenomenon, which is that almost all the daily news is constantly publishing the same information, that of 12 hours, so when it starts, then actually with the latest news, we always have the same information. As for our "Dnevnik" I am indeed already in beautiful years, so "Dnevnik" I've been watching for over 35 years, I don't think anything has changed since the time there, from the time that Miroslav Lilic was editing it, even before today. It seems to me that these "Divniks" are not done on the principle that "Dnevnik" does, say, BBC or, say, some German stations where the news is much shorter and very often, or most often have no comment, but this comment, or comment, is left to the viewer in fact, to bring the court in accordance with, rather than to, impose on him. In today's time unlimited access to information from the entire country and the world as well... the information emissions policy in our opinion is not acceptable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Further efforts need to be made to strengthen their currentity and diversity, and it is not thought to repeat the real breaking news, but part of them can indeed be replaced during the day with some other events that are also interesting and current. It is clear that production, or broadcasting, is so called. The talk show shows much cheaper for television, but I think it also needs to find an appropriate measure to enable viewers to relax with TV and exactly, I say not to be left to this single dictatorship of this type of show. In our opinion, there should be no support for a large number of programmes in which viewers are invited to participate, but, of course, with a larger phone tariff. I certainly don't mean various charity, phone calls. On the one hand, we need to separate this charity, and on the other very often this very, very often, that actually the viewers themselves are kind of able to finally have a result so that we can read it as wax popul. Very often we have also witnessed that behind such a type of show actually stands a certain, certain party headquarters that in fact in some way then manipulate and the results that we get are actually not in any way adequate to actually the right state of relations in society. So it's not all about the money and the money and the money. Some times we really need to be aware that there is no need to abuse the suggestive power of television before which probably the largest number of viewers afterwards brings their own attitude. It's like... public opinion studies concerning the strength of a particular political party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Very often, in fact, they generate a mood that can somehow affect the final result. It's also a big question whether sometimes sports events are transmitted which, in their own sense, have no greater meaning for the wider audience, I don't think that some boxing matches or these ultimatum fajts are something that our sport culture should be too interested in. I say, after all, they probably cost and it's a very big question whether such transfers really justify, are financially justified. I say sometimes it seems that this second programme, which has been declared as a more casual content programme, is sometimes reduced to a sports programme, and we also mildly suggest it in the Programme Council that it is precisely necessary to take care of this diversity of the programme, I say especially during the weekend when it is expected that most of our citizens spend more time in front of the screen. And after all, we need to understand that no matter how much we run the sport that not all viewers are just sports fans. It should be pointed out that we also have this situation that often shows similar topics in a series are replaced by one after the other or that similar emissions show up on both programmes which certainly does not ensure their diversity and the possibility for viewers to actually exercise their right to choose. So ensuring the diversity of the programme is an even greater obligation for Croatian television since it is primarily financed by citizens through its subscription. We've also been able to speak here a long time ago whether HRT can be commercial television if a subscription is paid. Then how much does it make sense that this commercial, advertising, commercial commercials are really represented to the extent that they are represented? The operation of HRT according to the Business Report cannot be fully assessed whether... economics because the funding plan is not entirely realistic but not transparent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, it is the work of some other experts, not at all of this Parliament, so I didn't understand to the end a fellow Hebrang when he said that some things deserved a higher instance than the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82572	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82573	I don't know what higher instance that Parliament would be. But here's to the end, the HSLS club HRT pardon, this report we consider objective and acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82574	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82575	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would have corrected an esteemed colleague. I'll quote, "Some sports are transmitted and there's no ratings." And here we now know that the match of the Croatian handball team at the World Cup is the most watched in the history of Croatian television where there were over a million people watching each other halftime. I think I'm right. And you mentioned boxing. I think we all woke up here in the early morning, a little older who we watched Muhammad Ali at five o'clock in the morning. So there were our boxers where, because if it is, I like boxing and basketball and handball and everything and I think it's very much seen. Unfortunately, we do not have enough sports on Croatian television, by abolishing the third programme. The last example during the Cibona-Makabi game, one of the most important games in the European league, we watched the league, we watched "Do you remember Dolly Bell" or something. I mean, so, here it is now going to be Mirko Filipovic the 4th and I would be most fortunate to have Croatian television broadcast it, so that we can watch his fight. And I think we'd all be watching in the Parliament that fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82576	On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82577	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief Director, Mr. President of the HRT Council, colleagues and colleagues! I'd also start discussing this report with a question why didn't it come to the bench when it was mandatory to do so? But that fact would not be blamed for the directorship of Croatian television because it submitted its report to the Croatian Parliament in time. Obviously, this debate can also indicate why the debate on the report has been delayed, why it has only now come to the agenda because everything that is happening around Croatian television and about the political relationship with public television is just visible from these discussions. If I had talked about this report at first, my report would have probably, the relationship to this report would probably have been very different than now that I've heard everything about how and how they evaluate this report. In fact, the fact that the principal director is obviously withdrawing from the principal's office even though everyone in some way points out that he is likely to have a relationship with this report. It seems to me that on the boards we were much softer or much more well-intentioned to the results of this report than at the main debate. And it's possible to justify it. Of course, this is a political arena, that here is trying to justify and unargumented to score political points, attack what can and cannot attack, speak what is and what is not true, say what each of us estimates will bring to him and the political party more political points because Croatian broadcasting is so important that the debate on it is always interesting and interesting. I said Mr. Hebrang's report, which was quite sharp, is in some way an indication that and it has not yet given up the position of the government since more direct control of the media and Croatian broadcasting, which is in some way the legitimate position of the political party. But I see and others have not been entirely satisfied with the state of the Croatian broadcasting, which is also very understandable. And I would say that, in fact, the directorship and the Council of Croatian Radio Television must be satisfied because a little and even expressed dissatisfaction suggests that they are somewhere on the trail of what Croatian Radio Television should be. Independent, inadmissible, not agreeing to any political influence is something that journalism and public media are calling out for. Being independent, being free, being completely deprived of any political addiction is the ideal of any democratic and journalistic freedom. Encourageing that freedom and fierce criticism is completely legitimate. I just think that on Croatian television there are enough political, polemic tones that lacks enough political and wider spectrum of relations to problems that would further strengthen the position of both free journalism and directorship and councils that oversee such an institution. It is I think that this is the goal of every independent television, every public media media, because without such an attitude, without fear that because of the spoken word on one of the Croatian TV shows in the morning, there will be no change in democracy or freedom of journalists, no freedom of speech or public media such as... wants to be Croatian Radio Television. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the assessment of its independence, the Croatian viewer will assess its position in society first and foremost. If public television frequently records good ratings and takes the lead despite the great competition that exists in Croatia, it is a sign that something is changing on Croatian television and that something positive is still changing on Croatian television, because you will recognise Croatian broadcasting in these few years is faced with a whole new position. There are commercial TV levels of national level that have completely entered the media space and public television in these emerging conditions need to take up their firm position because it still has far more obligations, a far more demanding role than one commercial television. Being educational, being fun, being informative, being responsible in your information is her basic role. Satisfy all, satisfy all minorities, all minority groups, have a relationship with all equal, satisfy a broad political spectrum. It is a very difficult role for Croatian television. That is why programmes are spoken of from this place even though we are employers in some way Croatian television is not easy because you can easily enter simple reviews of the work performed by journalists, any individual shows that are the result of the work of journalists and, above all, people who work in Croatian TV. This very complex topic makes it even more difficult, of course, to position Croatia public television because it is visible from these financial elements that we have received that the commercial income of public television unfortunately from day to day falls. Is it the guilt of the directorship or the people on Croatian television that it is, or is it an objective state of affairs, given the appearance of new competitive houses, a question we can discuss. I worry that the share of commercial revenues from the promotion is less than planned and smaller and even more than it was in the last year. It is certainly a element, it is certainly a figure to be imagined and it is necessary for every responsible politician who thinks that it is his right and obligation to think about these problems to answer these questions. If so, and it will be of course that the biggest financial burden remains on society, on citizens, in their fee they must pay and that truth is growing by a reasonable measure as planned. And that's luck. But how much these commercial revenues will fall in the future and how much they will allow Croatia's radio-television to be financially equipped will also depend on the skills of the people who run Croatian television and the space that can be occupied in competitive relations on the Croatian market. These are certainly figures that point to a situation that is not quite simple. I would agree with my colleague Hebrang, who spoke critically about spending these funds, but you know it is a pain of course of all public institutions that it is always possible to spend everything that is coming if not more. This is in some way almost the legality of all public institutions and, of course, that every directorship and each director will spend all those resources at his disposal and whether it is quite all right or done about it, of course, we cannot judge from these reports, we should hear it from the financially responsible and in charge of the houses that could get the exact data through independent audit. We, if you remember last year, discussed a lot about what the programme council's report also said that there was a lot of corruption on Croatian television and a variety of different generalities, which always tickled the Croatian public. Unfortunately, or fortunately, all those who talked about it and in public stayed in some way unarranged as usual without valid arguments and this is a story that is repeated almost every public relationship with material assets and money and position currently in Croatia and in Croatia radio-television. And last night, I was kind of disappointed with a show that talked about how there was or wasn't a bug, in which way, completely flat-out, unargumented, without valid evidence. These are debates that can go on forever and even debate corruption on Croatian television if it is not justified can only tickle the Croatian public and Croatian imagination and whether there is something behind it for me ordinary citizens, and even parliamentary representatives have no knowledge of it. This should also be done by all those institutions who have been invited to do so, they have not done so and we cannot, until further notice, give the final court. We can really just stop and end up with a story that was so intense at one point and I can't get the impression that these stories are always politically intrinsic and very trendy. In fact, I think it's the right of every citizen to point out the problems he sees and sees in front of him, but he can't defecate anyone, put on anyone's Stigm, and then leave it to the public to get justice and to wash it. We need to discuss these problems much more sensitive and much more responsibly. In his report, the program council spoke very critically about a series of elements they have seen, with which we all probably all agree. It was said that Article 11 was not respected. The Statute of Croatian Radio Television on External Production. There was talk of a lack of respect for Article 12. The law of Croatian Radio Television on the subscription or on a fee seems to me, about the promotion that is greater than is allowed. Of course it is, those are the violations they saw too. Of course, this must not be tolerated even though I said this problem of promotion and the money collected from it is always welcome but I suppose that there has been a decline in safe and price and all of those services that public media and all electronic media can offer in view of competition and therefore probably Croatian television leaders often come into some kind of challenge that is not quite easy to come up with, perhaps even a few kunas more than possible in view of their current position. Of course it is very important in this report to assess the impact and whether the influence of Croatian politics has on an independent medium such as Croatian Radio-Television, the impact of corporate institutions, the impact of financial powers on the Croatian Radio-Television programme, whether it has such an impact, whether it can be identified from the Croatian Radio-Television programme. We are all dissatisfied with the relationship between the Director-General and the Directorate-General towards the regional centres in Croatia. It is one challenge that needs to be done well if Croatian radio television is thought to be brought closer to Croatian citizens in the region. I claim that there are enough personnel and all those assumptions in these regional centres to be far more exploited than they are at this point. They're in prison, they're not materially trained in the way they should be. I think the principal and Mr. Jelak are aware of that. I think in the future, as far as I understand it, it's going to take a hell of a lot more account. I call for this to happen because you know who we are from the region is far sweeter and more beautiful to hear your own word and editors and leaders who will speak to you in that language that is closer to you than in some way centralised messages from Zagreb which is a pain to all the other of course institutions of the Croatian state that are in this way, in some way organized. And I think that, in that part, you should do far, far more. I think it'll do. No one here specifically talked about the technical possibilities of Croatian television as far as I understand it, and as far as I know about this problem, I think it's done a lot for it to be trained and able to side with the most developed televisions it's not to underestimate. It's a digital system, knocking on the door. I suppose they are also trained and will soon move on to new technology that will allow for far easier and signalling and that we will be able to overcome this crisis over the lack of channels that, according to the analogue system, have been somewhat problematic at the moment. Because we're one channel like that, I'd say we stepped in pretty quick and sold. But with all this criticism, I think the principalship is... in the last few years, however, since Croatian television has done as much as possible at this time despite all the riots and all the criticisms that I have also referred to. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's why I kind of need on behalf of the HSS and on behalf of the Directorate for what it did to Croatian Radio Television. Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82578	Thank you, dear colleague Roic. It's time to correct the incorrect allegations. First of all, fellow Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82579	Thank you very much. You misquoted me. You said from my speech you concluded that the government does not give up Croatian television. Based on my speech, you've concluded that the government doesn't give up? I didn't mention the program once in my speech. I was talking about financial irregularities that are unimaginable in any body that has a billion and a half kuna a year. Where you saw the political interest, I don't understand. But that there's a political interest behind it, if that's what you thought, then surely there is. That's where I agree. The second thing I disagree with you said: "All public institutions have spent everything they have." It is not a question of how much they spend but how they spend. You've seen media mobing, say, against the Home Secretary because he bought three special vehicles without public procurement. And these three vehicles are one change of value that is obtained here without public procurement. That's what I was talking about, not political interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82580	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote by his colleague Jurjević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82581	It is not true that fellow Roic said that last night on the "Open" show, I think he meant it, did not show any arguments that it was about the flat-rates and that no evidence was presented for the claims made there. As far as I'm concerned, for the first time, one of the parliamentary deputies, in this case Parliament's representative Milanka Opačić, has shown a document, part of the secret service report that speaks of her and her authority as a parliamentary representative, and the responsibility of the parliamentary representative, guaranteed that it was an authentic document. There's no reason to doubt him. And let those who do so investigate. But I think it just happened the other way around yesterday. That we saw something like that for the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82582	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Vujic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82583	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Director and President of the Council. Let me first, on behalf of the SDP Club, open up a corridor in a way in which we would discuss and at the same time say, to warn of those corridors that we do not want to discuss. First of all, some special secret channels that we could find out about these or some kind of television malfeasances we don't have. I am pleased that Mr. Chief Director in this regard has denied or left the possibility to investigate such a thing on one of the club representatives' interventions which is not in any case the subject of this Parliament. Someone may be if that's the case, but it's not the subject of this Parliament. I mean, what do I think should be the subject? We also didn't develop this pessimism of reading financial reports as we heard it with all the items that are so dramatically impossible that the ministers would have to flee from the government if they did something similar. That's how we reported it. And we've been surprised at this kind of approach before, which is now for the first time by the government, not from someone else, but from the government, of all the objections possible, and including financial remarks, we get only one that warns that the profits from the operation on HRT have fallen something. Even though she herself says it's not the most important thing to make a profit on HRT, but that she fell. But that's what we've heard now. She fell because she increased tax pay. The fact is, since 2000 television has started training among other things and repaying debt. And when that debt was paid back, it left the possibility of tax collection, which is why this relatively well-intentioned government facility, for a wonderful miracle I have to call on it, in a way contradicting the assessment we heard here on behalf of a representative of a club. I think the first interest of this Parliament would be to go because that's why he's here, to see if television performs its public tasks as they are set before her or as they should be put before her if I say so myself or the documents we have don't talk about. I'll list a few values, then I'll tell you where they're from, as defined by one public television. So public television is a unique citizen-owned institution independent of political and commercial interests. Secondly, the largest power in the country that through its programmes and services contributes to the quality of life in society as a whole is public television. Of a few values, I'm going to count them in order that's exactly the order that's most important. It's public support and civil society. It's a public television assignment. Encouraging creativity and cultural excellence. Promoting education and learning. The imagery and mutual knowledge of the nation within itself, within its regions and communities it has. Meeting the world in the country and meeting the country with the world of transfers between the country and the world specifically related to identities with globalisation. And finally, a whole new data that is defined as building a digital society in which public televisions of some countries play a special role, I don't know at this point whether they are legally required roles, but by their importance, roles, authority and abilities perform one of the key interests, the interest of preserving their own citizens and their own identity in the context of future digitalisation of a society that hasn't actually measured all the changes that come out of it with the introduction of new technologies, the Internet of television, etc. etc. So you wouldn't think what I was talking about was some Vujic or SDP utopia, etc. What I've cited are the values in both order and performance of how the BBC put them ahead of itself. The same values that were implemented in the HRT Act, but which the BBC promoted to one, so to speak, almost a large elaborate expressing its alliance with citizens. In this alliance with citizens, the public television tells its citizens that its task is to make life better. All things are defined exclusively from the aspect of value. None of them are defined from the aspect of commercial and commercial interests although they are known or at least they know that the production of such values is also the most commercial interests, so it is no wonder that then we buy exactly such emissions, emissions that are not primarily determined by commercial interests. Therefore, these values should be primarily the interest of this Assembly in determining how much they are implemented in public television if they are not and how they make it stand as best in this regard. I think both reports speak in the context of knowledge of matter for the last seven, eight years about stabilisation and television and stabilisation, so to speak. Business stabilisation is I mean very respectable since we know what kind of trouble television was in years ago before it was able to even begin to repay debts. What is even more interesting to us, however, is that there has been a stabilising of the law which has been severed and with many, many misunderstandings brought here today, which is a standard for which I will personally say I am often asked by some ministers of other countries who have a similar problem and are looking for experiences of this particular type, and these are also recommendations that certain European bodies suggest to some countries at this time, in the sense that Croatia has well solved the key issue of those countries that do not have that stability, so it is uncontestable that either queen or president or someone else appoints a council because they are not actually known practices of such abuses, political abuses at lower levels. The law has stabilized, the council has stabilized, and it is just fantastic that it is so heterogeneously composed of very different things that I say political impulses with different peoples, a whole series of decisions that usually cause disputes and in public make it quite unanimous. I think it's something that this House should see and that should actually confirm the value of this idea, where it has proved that those who are ultimately of their origin, regardless of what someone here has said from party proposals, will be responding to their own group dynamics as a body, will be more important to them than to put the bill back where they actually lost contact there. Television is not above the Parliament. She's out of the Parliament. And it can't even be the Council of Television. Television must be protected by mechanisms in which it can develop its economy and must be protected by contact with the representative of citizens as its owners in terms of reports such or such. But we created bodies, which is why we created bodies so that they could be transmissions so that I could say the public's interest on that television, not to give it to them one day, but to take it away from them from them another day. That is why it is astounding as some representatives and speakers of some parties, and governments are also open to calculations on who will be elected and what agreement any future headmaster needs when the time comes. I hope so, and all the assumptions have been made that there is no need for no consent, but that this consensus will be counterproductive to the one who comes with it, because the council has been trained to make such a need without pressure at the moment, and this has shown on several occasions precisely by rejecting the pressure on itself to make the kind of decision that will be most favourable in terms of the programme, in terms of support, in terms of the assessment of credibility, etc. etc. Our public television and what it is that could be better I'll say what I think is wrong is the only big media house owned by this country, i.e. Citizens. There's nothing else. When I say media, then I mean not just electronic media, but the only big media at all. Because what we could have had with the Vesnik, unfortunately, we gave it up ourselves. And instead of having another public newspaper set up in this guy to say autonomously so that they could perform these functions as previously described in television in another way, the media way, so the press is gone. This is the only breakdown of public television would be the breakdown of the identity and national policies of Croatia in the first place. This Parliament and this public, these parties would no longer have any media that by definition would not be driven by different interests than the interests of their owners. That's the key difference between television and everything between public television and all of this. That's not what we say. That's not what we say. That's how public-political relations are best. There's probably a lot to change about. It's a shame we didn't have a more peaceful discussion a few years ago, we might have been more critical today than we did, or we could have started criticizing earlier. But there's no other media that isn't intertwined with partial interests. Only public television has remained in this country as its medium and should be kept safe. If there is anything to argue about, this Parliament should argue and argue over how it will be upgraded to do so as best rather than how it will calculate with such or such pressures. Of all the criticisms that we've had the opportunity to hear on public television, I've heard them thank God a lot, but one of them has completely, particularly busy me, and it seems to me that we should be well undercut here to see what's going on. One of the critics who spoke from the point of view of the interest of each other's television, one of the private televisions, said: public television is too much. Please, I think that this House may not be so, but if that's the case, then this House should be the happiest to have a television that's too big for other televisions if the other televisions are already, by definition, going to policy banalizations, going to devalue all the content that's not to say so commercially. If certain owners' interests are in many other elements that don't have enough time to inventory what it is. So what's left? We should be proud of it and work on it, and fix a lot of things. If this is already light, then I'm going to have to cut a lot short on what I was going to say. First of all, I'd like to comment on the principal. I'm moving on to something. Something he said was wrong than he seemed to have spoken in one aspect that he should now replace with another aspect. He said a competitive battle as if something in which television was found is true, but from the phenomenon of a competitive battle should go into battle for the public. It's good that television won that competitive battle, it's good that we hear because otherwise this report is missing and the damage is gone, or you weren't obliged to give it away, but it would be good to see the ratings report. The fact is that some 20 of the most watched shows are about 15, 16 or 17 even, so from fighting for, in a competitive battle should go public. Some here even spoke inspiredly, and some think that we did not understand each other well when speaking about what television should do for the public. Television certainly needs to reflect the public, not forge the public. But it's a very wrong opinion that television is the only thing that depicts such a public as it is and carries it. Television has educational functions, it has development functions, it has valuable functions that I was talking about at the beginning of this conversation and which could also be at the end and end with them. So let me say, if I think we're getting out of the world in terms of globalisation so much in here, then we could move on to another one, and let me also briefly comment on the principal who mentioned that we are now on this television programmable that for the most complex in technical terms they operate, etc. If we're capable of it, then why don't we start doing shows that are going to be bought from us. From Držić and Bošković, Tesla, Getaldić, Dedominis to Krleža, Jurj Dalmatinca, I don't know Split, Trogir, Varazdin, Požege etc. etc. So public television can be commercial television on high standards, and I think that's the way to stabilise and make sense of this Parliament's relationship with public television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82584	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, dear colleague Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82585	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative incorrectly said that television is public I think, must be outside the Parliament. There is no way he can be outside the Parliament because of Article 58. The Croatian Law on HRT says the Parliament oversees the legality of the work of Croatian Radio Television. So it cannot be out there, it must be within our aspirations to bring it into the legal frameworks, and it is still so far away from this House really having something to discuss. Another thing he incorrectly stated, that HRT is political independent television. It's completely incorrect. That it's an independent television that sends a reporter to interview a politician, and this one says so I have to take your statement and we know they always do. So it's not about political independence, but a very, very, very, very financially and politically dependent house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82586	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party, a respected colleague, Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's today's discussion of the HRT Report and we have a report on the work of the HRT Council. Last year, when the HNS Club debate was held, it did not take part in the debate at all, because many here noticed that the debate was noisy, burning and much uglier than this one now and was called the HDZ chase on HRT. Whether it was founded or unfounded, I don't know if it was chasing or not, I don't want to judge. But the fact is that either HRT is doing well or HDZ is out of ammo to shoot at HRT. Because I can't comment otherwise that HDZ is satisfied with the programme especially on HTV because mostly that debate then and part of these discussions is now actually about that picture of its love, whether that image refers to the individual, whether that image refers to the party and mostly all the discussions are about who will be more represented on public television. I don't want to talk about it because the HNS club is and then and now it's going to support each other's report. I just want to mention one good part, one great program, not one, but three great programs that are within the HRT, which none of us mention, which is what it was doing. It's a program that includes both fun and educational and musical and, I don't know, sports, school program that we mostly listen to driving in cars and none of us, I haven't heard anywhere here, that it has an objection to that radio program. However, I believe that we all praise him and that we all praise everyone, and informative shows, and educational, and the third program even some listen to, some don't listen at all. But no one's attacking him for a simple reason because there's no pictures there. You can't see any of us out there and there's no picture and that's why there's no attack. And listener to that radio, if we look at it, despite what counterpart Luka Roic said he liked to hear his beat or his word, he said Ric, listening to it despite these local radio stations that spin on the local word Radio Zagreb is one by listening. The second program is the fourth by listening, and the third program is the sixth. It means that citizens listen to the radio program and the fact is that none of us have any objections to that radio program. And again, I say, all this other stuff is about "a picture of my love." I would also like to commend one more thing, and these are the successes in digitisation and I want to commend that much has been done and from what we have heard, and the report shows that Croatia is ready to step into digital Europe and I am pleased. I'm glad for a number of reasons, and one reason is that soon our space will probably be with even more television channels. And now we have some grudges, which are, mostly, about ZAMP where you promised me in that report three years ago that you'd try to cut those tariffs, and I don't get it, the report doesn't see if you've been able to arrange it. But the other topic is agriculture. I have a pretty bad opinion about agricultural emissions for the simple reason that the agricultural show has been turned into some kind of, you know, some kind of on-call crying service. The agricultural emissions were not made in such a way as to give advice to farmers, to tell them how credit will come, how some will accomplish, how they will exercise their rights, how they will come to land, who is holding them all back in all of this. However, our agricultural emissions come down to moaning and to be honest with you, I've had enough of those two squid that are mentioned all the time and blue oil and I don't know what not. It all comes down to moaning and crying. I'd like those agricultural emissions to turn into something educational to help our peasants. We know what the level of education is with us, so let's turn it into something educational to help these people make their rights easier or better said, to come up with some opportunities and to go into the normal development of that agriculture. And I have one more remark, and that's the right to citizens' privacy when they're sick. We've seen countless shows, either after some traffic accident, or after I don't know anything, anything, any tragedies, doctors show up, they talk about diagnosis, he dropped half his brain, this-that. I think the Law on the Protection of Patients protects all citizens and such things should not be published without the patient's permission. And I expect you to order that something like this doesn't happen, give the editors of the information program to read the Patients' Rights Act and it doesn't happen. Normally, politicians and that part will use for promotional purposes, but that's their right and it's on the trail of that "image of your love". Therefore, the HNS will support both reports in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82588	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is a respected colleague, Didovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82589	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief Director Galic, Mr. President of the HRT Programme Council, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate on the work of Croatian Radio Television, I will also look at some reviews from the report on HRT's work, which point to the role of Croatian Radio and Croatian Television as public media today. Croatian broadcasting, we have been witnessing this for years, has been going one long way of transforming into a public medium and on this path of shifts, positive shifts are quite evident. Croatian television is a rare public television that has not brought down competition by the arrival of more commercial television as it happened in the transition countries of Europe, Eastern Europe, of course. The core assessment of the HRT Council in this report can be summarised in the following position: The quality of the programme has been improved, listening and viewing of Croatian Radio and Croatian TV shows has been increased. With such a general assessment, it is necessary to agree, respect its importance, especially in the situation where television and radio competition in Croatia has grown in numbers. However, the general assessment of the success of HRT must not cover, of course, the necessary discussion on the development of Croatian broadcasting in the future. In this respect, the main issue of Croatian broadcasting that has been imposed and in public is certainly not a question of whether it will be this or that director of Croatian broadcasting. Perhaps it is a fatal question for those who want to influence this medium because of their individual interests, but it is certainly not a fatal issue for the development of HRT. The main issue of HRT is concern about the quality of the programme. Because that very quality of the program has made it possible for HTV to be one of the most successful TVs in transition countries, to be competitive with private televisions with its very quality. Quality is also the result of financial investments and technological improvements, but most of all the result of the expertise, skills and education of journalists and editors in which it has been invested for years and decades. In addition, in this political institution, in the Croatian Parliament, I think that the following should be pointed out in particular. The expertise and ability of journalists and editors of HRT is a significant obstacle to pressure on media freedoms. This was evident immediately at the beginning of 2004 when some ministers, i.e. vice-presidents of the current government, then put pressure on the HTV information programme, caused such reactions by journalists and professional associations that the topic of political pressures had been filling the media for days, and this really reminded the early 1990s and that original HDZ. I therefore believe that even greater press freedoms, which journalists of course fought for 5.6 years ago have contributed to the increasingly influential HRT programme as a public media and should be reminded that for a long time the HRT has been more controlled of course than the free media and that an important change, a certain milestone, took place between 2000 and 2003 during the coalition government, when the major impact of politics on HRT has been reduced, especially on its information programme, which is always of course interesting to politicians. In recent times, there have been no such drastic examples of pressure on journalists, perhaps, at least not those available to the public as before, and the HRT Council has, according to this report that we have read at our sessions in the past period, so over the past year and a half less debated these incidents and pressures on journalists who were symptomatic of this earlier period and more concerned with the programme orientation of Croatian radiotelevision. During this period, according to the report, there were far fewer objections to the professional failures of journalists and editors as well as to the programming shortcomings of HRT. The Council rated the Croatian Radio programme positively with praise, arguing that Croatian radio was fully performing its public mission. The Council's opinion is that the obedience of the 1st Croatian Radio Programme has been increased thanks to some shows such as "Poligraph" in Network 1 and it is estimated that Croatian Radio has fully carried out its legal tasks and has proved by its programme that it is a public medium. We can agree with the assessment that Croatian Radio is fully fulfilling its public tasks, but of course it does not mean that the top quality of the program has been achieved, especially not of course the top profile of all numerous Croatian Radio programs. In any case, all the kinds of shows that cannot be heard on private stations, which are numerous in Croatia, have their own numerous audiences on the Croatian Radio. I therefore believe that Croatian Radio deserves the future that the Council of Croatian Radio Television occasionally discusses its sessions and programme and content of Croatian Radio emissions, especially through that point which has been regular and permanent so far, and this is a debate on the programme between the two Council sessions and simply, this point is not reserved exclusively for the HTV programme as it has been so far. The report also lists some proposals and remarks from Council members relating to the necessary improvements to some HTV emissions, however, it is interesting that most of this concerned better representation of cultural events. Compared to other programmes, it was somehow more dominated by the area of culture, so it was specifically suggested that more cultural information in "Dnevnik" be represented as the most visible show, that the programme lacks film emissions, theatre performances, that quality domestic humorist emissions be lacking, that more space in the programme deserves a mere culture and so on. This shows itself interesting in relation to earlier periods when, in particular, councils were discussed primarily on the information programme and on the political interests of the programme that the Council is at this moment more considering this area of culture as one largely interested body for the area, it shows that I am actually very interested in what it shows or perhaps something is problematic in the field of culture or are simply reaching high standards in other HRT programmes. Finally, I want to make an assessment that Croatia's broadcasting of institutions is of first-class media, cultural and political importance in the Republic of Croatia and despite all existing problems Croatian society and state are better than if HRT had failed in the usual transition way. This value of HRT should be maintained, maintained and I am convinced that the most profitable investment in the long term is just investing in the expertise and development of professional ethics of journalists and editors themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82590	Thank you, colleague Didovic. It's my dear fellow Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82591	Thank you very much. First of all, the Business Report. Business is stable and that's the most important thing. Croatian broadcasting today enjoys financial independence. Without financial independence, there is certainly no programme independence. If Croatian broadcasting depended on how much money the government or parliament will allocate then there would be no independence on the government and the Parliament. This has been achieved hard and painfully. Since its draft Croatian Radio Television, then the Radiotelevision of Zagreb is under the patronage of politics. First the party authorities in the one-party system, then after the '90s. when it wasn't really logical anymore, when we entered a multiparty system under the patronage of the ruling party. It was therefore perfectly normal for the ruling party's vice president, and also for the parliamentary representative to be the head director of the HRT. It wasn't strange to anyone, no one was complaining about it, that's when all the citizens, and the whole policy took it as something normal. Today it is unimaginable, unimaginable that anyone from politics should even come to the public tender for the selection of the principal, and certainly report from any party, ruling or opposition, small or large. He certainly wouldn't have gone through the Council, simply because of his political biography. This independence of Croatian broadcasters has enabled two great things. First of all, the law that introduced this Council and this is how the Council is elected. Therefore, the law guaranteeing through this institutional form the programme independence and abolition of VAT on a fee allowing for the financial independence of HRT. As far as I'm concerned, there are no major objections to these reports in this House. There's no aggression like the last debate. That's good. There are still tones of concern. Especially when it comes out on behalf of the club, especially on behalf of the ruling party. They can warn all of us that they have not yet completely silenced the ambition to rule politics with Croatian television. That's not good. I liked Vujic's thought very much. We should argue here about how to make Croatian broadcasting even more public. This could be a dispute between political parties. How to strengthen this function, how to strengthen it, because it would only help Croatian broadcasting to be even better. If that spirit were to rule, it might be critical at some point without the criticism being seen as an attempt at political patronisation. Unfortunately, the criticisms that are coming today are always observed under that light. Now something about the Council's report. For Croatian radio, the President of the Council has only said positive tones, that is no wonder. It's no wonder. Croatian Radio and in the opinion of the Council and I think in the public opinion and here, in the opinion of the MPs, fully fulfils its public function. I just wonder why television doesn't look like that radio when it can. He's got the same council, he's got a lot of people, he's got a lot of reporters. So what the hell is waiting so long that this public function that's being realized on the radio doesn't come true on television in some parts of the world? I'll give you only two examples. Monitoring the Croatian Assembly. The Croatian radio has a specialized show, even two days a day, in which it is summed up half an hour or 45 minutes conveys what was said that day in the Croatian Parliament. Television has a direct transmission of half 11 to half 2, and we're discussing here and now. And the report on information emissions as short as possible. Well, of course in "The Diaries," so it can't be more than a minute and a half, two minutes max. So why couldn't what already exist on the radio exist on TV? When this was discussed, the idea of abolishing direct transmissions, running these shows, and smaller clubs in the Assembly rebelled, said they would call for a boycott of subscriptions if direct transfers were lifted. All right. So let the direct transfers remain. They don't mean anything anyway. Their ratings are 2%. And so they don't cover the whole day's work of the Parliament and why don't they introduce specialized shows? Another example. I haven't heard a single valid reason not to. Another example. For two years, the Parliament has been praying, warning that a specialized theatre show is being launched. Croatian radio has such a show, it does. It's always the same answer, we're working on it. But God's people, what you have two years to do is to start a show. Well, it's a 15-day job. Professor Selem has been warning about this for two years. My smallness, the other MPs. You know, it's a public function of television that would be highly justified. People who love the theatre live in Zagreb to see the Split play must go to Split. They have to go to Virovitica to see the original one. They can't even see any serious shows anywhere, a little more of that kind of play, let alone to record the show and broadcast at a time when it's no longer on the repertoire of that theater. So why, I don't realize that it's so complicated that two years has to be answered just to work on it and not to do anything. Well, then I'm calling on the President of the Council if the editors can't do it there, then initiate that these editors are being replaced and bring some skills. I assure you, they'll do it in 15 days. But please don't let us hear the next report again about how you're working on it. You or some other President of the Council because it is not a disgrace to you personally or to your Council, not to Croatian Radio Television. Well, that's the shame of this country. It's a disgrace to this country. It doesn't make any sense to embarrass myself like that. I can understand someone didn't notice, someone didn't notice that it was necessary, but when it comes to you, you agree that it's necessary, you say you'll do it and you don't do anything. Here, I also dared these critical tones that you will not take this as a form of political pressure but as an invitation for Croatian broadcasting to be a public television, because it really is, it is even better. That she is good and that these programs are good witnesses to the ratings of this television, she beat the competition and competition is neither weak nor poor. She kept the ratings. I think the data is such that the most watched public television in Europe, which is great because otherwise public opinion in Croatia would have won the game if any commercial television had won, public opinion would have been determined by the owner of that commercial television. He would influence what people in this country, how, what image of this reality will receive ours, and what opinion they will then form. Fortunately, this has not happened, thanks to the leadership of this television and thanks to you, Mr Galic, and thanks to this Council and the President of that Council. You held out, you beat the competition, you only did it with quality. You try to fix that quality, you have potential for it, it takes a little will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82592	Thank you very much. There's a respected colleague named Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. Behind her is a respected colleague of Pearl Perman's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82593	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Croatian Radio and Television, colleagues and colleagues! In my debate, I will not strictly stick to the content of these reports that we received from Croatian Radio-Television because we have heard a lot of praise and criticism so far through discussions on behalf of clubs and through so far individual debates. I would like to refer to the Croatian TV programme through the recent meeting of representatives and children from children's forums from all over Croatia under the leadership of the Alliance of "Our children" in the Croatian Parliament and organized by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. As part of this meeting, among other topics important for pre-school and primary school children from Nova Gradiška, Ravna Gora and Čakovec talked about the media's influence on the content of life and psycho-physical development of children. From them we heard some worrying facts and data as well as their appeals and a desire to improve content above all television programs to become more suitable for children's age, so I want to present them briefly on this occasion. They conducted surveys and research on monitoring TV programs in their schools and came up with the following data. Children aged 10 to 15 spend in front of TV screens from half to six hours a day and the average is from 2 to 4 hours. Even 97% of students think there's violence on TV that 64% think violence can be seen at night, 10% at noon and 10% at any time of the day. The vast majority of them are accompanied by soap opera, forensic series, Pokemon, Yu-Gi-Oh and similar cartoons full of violence as well as movies of criminal content full of violence and murder. 54% of the students of the violent scene watch to the end, 44% of them transferred to another program and only 2% turned off the TV. 50% of children don't talk to anyone about violence on TV, 37% talk to friends, 9% talk to parents, and 3% talk to brothers or sisters. 14% of children later think about scenes of violence, 6% of them bad dreams and 3% of children are afraid. They were surprised that a small number of parents pay attention to what children watch and only about 26% of parents defend their children’s specific shows and 37% recommend other documentary or educational content. They mentioned the news published in Dnevnik about a school student in Germany who returned to school with weapons, killed several students and himself, and experts concluded that his violent, aggressive and murderous behavior had affected exactly watching violence on TV. They also pointed out that almost and almost no scientific-fantastic cartoons exist without the fierce struggles of superheroes, the destruction and destruction of imaginary cities, the destruction of our planet, the aggressive aliens, robots as well as many movies and series full of murders, fighting, torture and so forth. They also pointed out that cartoons are mostly shown in inappropriate terms early in the morning or early in the afternoon when they are still in class and on weekends early in the morning when they are still asleep. HRT and other TV stations should take more account of their broadcasting times so as not to cause traumatic experiences and behavioural disorders in children. Comedy can also find negative influences and scenes that children love to imitate and can be very dangerous, such as jumping off a balcony, shooting cakes, hitting with various tools, vessels and the like. The children expressed their desire for a number of documentary and educational emissions, as well as for example the return of "Teachers" or similar emissions that enable them to test their knowledge. They also appealed to reduce aggressive advertising that manipulates them to influence their parents and force them into over-purchasing without taking care of their property and not understanding that parents cannot and do not want to afford them anything. We also heard about this problem last week from the Ombudsman for children and as part of the debate on the Consumer Protection Act. They concluded that fewer such ads would affect a better relationship and more time spent with their parents and enable them to learn that not everything is too much and unnecessary to buy things for the sake of the purchase itself. As a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, I considered it my duty to present to you gentlemen from Croatian Radio-Television problems that children highlighted in their discussions, especially in today's atmosphere, to increase the incidence of behavioural disorders, child violence, domestic violence, addiction problems and thus the risk of increasing HIV infection by HIV virus, AIDS, hepatitis and various sexual diseases among children of the earliest age. Realising that our future is on those children, we as representatives of the citizens of the Croatian Parliament should not ignore their wishes and needs and thoughts regarding the content of television programmes, even if these requirements are sometimes at the heart of the achievement of the financial gain of public television, especially when considering that children are about a third of the total population of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82594	Thank you very much. Replica, dear colleague Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen from television, colleagues and colleagues! Here, in her presentation, colleague Perman expressed her views on what the children presented. I'd just like to support them, and I'd like to point that out. But we do see for ourselves, and I notice and think a lot about it, because a national and public television that must have both national interest and public interest should pay attention to it, and we can see that it is not even financially threatened to do so. Therefore, not only should we stick to commercialism but our films are indeed starting with cartoons and further full of violence. You can't really look at a normal movie that has one normal theme, with one life problem, it's all serial killers, rapists, or I don't know everything else, and you see when we adults haven't presented it enough, then here's what the kids emphasized, and I think it's really worth the attention and that this should be done planically so that this film part itself doesn't be the kind of movie that's here produced at the end and violence and the imitation of one of those movies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82596	The answer to my colleague Perman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82597	Thank you very much. So here I would like to thank my colleague Lelic for actually reminding me of one more thing to supplement this debate, which is that last year we had such a meeting with the children here in the Croatian Parliament, children from children's forums, and that they also pointed out the problems of television programmes or TV shows. Both practically repeated the same problems this year, however, some last year's debate on the topic passed in the famous Latina and in the dispute over the Latina. So just all of these other discussions about the content of the program actually didn't come up with a first plan. So I would also appeal to last year's children's debate to call on Croatian TV to really take care of the programmes and content of the shows if not in other ways, at least, of the terms of the show, so that children can be as suitable as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82598	Thank you, dear colleague Perman. It's all right, dear colleague Cosic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak on this subject. There's a respected colleague, Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec. She's gone. She's losing her right to speak on this subject. It's my dear colleague Markovanovic's turn. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82599	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, here are the well-respected guests, so I would like little to comment on the programme's orientations in one part and confirm everything they have written. I don't think anything they wrote really makes any difference. Maybe there was something else to write. Which clearly in terms of what it is, is almost impossible there. Here are the mentions of summer schemes, reruns of numerous. I remember a year ago we mentioned a lot of culture as what is least about, what is least happening on Croatian television. We got it instead of culture, we got the news from culture. That's quality news. And it really doesn't hurt to hear what's going on, but culture still doesn't. Let me give you an example. Ten days ago, we had something more than one concert that was dedicated to us one big day that was incredibly watched. So people enjoyed, even those who may not like serious music. They praised the concert in every way possible. So that's what's missing. Let's just remember that serious music doesn't take maybe I don't know how much. People will then go maybe move to other programs, but here and there it would be good to hear some quality music. We have our masters, our old masters, our Dubrovnik masters. There was a lot of people to get to know and get to know. Besides what television has given up, we're talking about television, it's fun music. She's gone. TV has become one big sad house where fun things don't happen. I've even talked to some of our fine artists. Maybe they know what the problem is. Maybe they're too expensive. Maybe there's a lot to pay, I really don't know that. But we don't have that anymore. The news begins most often with accidents in Chinese mines, floods in South America, rotten stomachs on Queen Elisabeth... There, we heard it on all the news all the time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Promises of a guy: "E, there's been an accident." So far, there are 1,500 dead. Be patient, there'll be more. So television creates addicts on the Black Chronicle. Then comes a sad story like that all over the world about some people who have been wronged, and in the end we get a sad show so those who are miserable and unhappy with us feel even more miserable. It's incomprehensible that others talk about us in another way. Here's my good opinion on Croatian Radio today is also supported by a show on Croatian Radio at 8 p.m. on quality of life research "International Leaving" by a thousand, of which I don't know five, six countries Croatia shares 16th place with, say, Finland, Malta, Monaco, Lichtenstein. On television, I think that's not a word. There was more than just "E is very beautiful this Croatia. We saw her from the plane, so it's hot." They also compared the cost of life and culture and leisure time, the economy, the environment, freedom, health, infrastructure, security, risk and climate. So a whole series of topics that can also be written in Croatia. Interestingly, we have left Sweden, England, and Slovenia in 32nd place. And that's a subject that could still interest our people. If Croatia ended up in 150th place, be assured that it would be breaking news in all news, informative TV shows in Croatia. It's actually incomprehensible to have this whole relationship with your own country. The only exception is, for example, lately I have to, although the report for the earlier evening diary is Sunday. Still, the shows are better-conceived, more indigestionable. So what people can still watch without being bitter in their mouths. The Council noted well that information emissions were broadcast all day with the same text and the same picture that viewers who paid the expensive subscription did not deserve. It still needs to be changed. If you have time, if you are at home and if you are interested in the news, we are all interested in the news. There's always something going on. And you look at the same text all the time, the same picture. The same picture from the Parliament even though your cameras are here all day long I think maybe a little more effort to make it work. That's why I'm surprised, here's the complaint from the Programme Council that it's inadmissible that one midnight news show has been skipped. I don't think anyone would have noticed if it was a rerun, say, from the morning, afternoon. All I had to do was play the tape. And so these shows are equal. Licensed, licenses are actually purchased without criteria. There are good ones. TV's got a lot of good stuff, too. There are quality shows people like to watch. We've praised that before. But let's say it's a sad broadcast of the theatre in the house, so in the Croatian version, the Theatre in the house. We seniors remember what it looked like. It was even fun. This here is, in my opinion, an apparent understatement of Croatian authors. The Croatian soap opera has excellent ratings. I'm not gonna talk about quality, but people are happy to see it. There's an affirmation of a whole series of young actors. And there's people watching what they like to watch. Far more quality than these imported Mexicans, I don’t know soap and so on and that’s why the purchase of this “The theater in the house” is even more unclear. I think there's a lot to write without it. I think people are who we talked to and heard everyone resented it, because I think it's still a money dump team before the performance was very much watched by ours. Croatian television has gone too far in something and that's a talk show. I don't know if you counted how many shows there are today. Even two, three of the same night. Maybe it's a little different, maybe it's faked in another studio, so it's from another room, so I don't know any other building. But in the end, it all comes down to the same thing. Even the same-day content overlaps. I'm sure the competitiveness of private TV houses will force national television to produce more domestic programs. It is interesting that their growth of competing houses national television is completely ignored. I don't mind them moving from one national house to another house. Finally, I'm not getting into it. People leave for money, for better conditions and things like that. It's a matter of politics, but we need to keep an eye on what everyone else is doing. I think maybe then they'll work harder to fix their own program. The evaluation of the Programme Council is what we expected to compromise and treasure, because everything else would be a surprise since it's really hard for our country to agree on anything, including that. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82600	Thank you very much. Replica. Dear colleague Lelic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, Markovanovic, who said a lot of things that I really agree with. But I'd like to take a chance and make some of my contribution to it. Indeed, when I talk about our informative shows, especially when I think about the central “Divnik” that has the highest ratings, then as a doctor, I can say quite responsibly by looking at something that I've been dealing with both psychiatry and psychology, that I really stand behind it that from these little screens so spreads pessimism, so many negative attitudes. And all those of you who know little about something about it, we know what a positive attitude means, positive examples, and so on. And I think that both national and public television should take care of how to actually help and also a spiritual transformation of our people, and that is what he needs. Then here we'll see right now I'm just wondering if there's going to be one topic of "Open" let's say these results of "International Lives" where we're on what our colleague said in such a good place. We're really ready to blow everything up negatively, but if anything has a positive then it's barely shy to repeat it sometimes or not to repeat it at all. I don't think it's good for society, it's not good for the development of that society and for its progress. So I think public television and our national television would be good about it too, and it would be necessary to make a contribution. And not to mention, I think there's got to be some good shows. In the morning when I manage to look at something, these shows are often very educational and good, and here I would also say that for the radio we see a lot of listening and that there are no objections. Well, surely because television that these shortcomings it has that should correct them and really lead the interests of national and public interests and indeed give, and here I must commend and say openly that “Dnevnik” is, say, Goran Milic on Sunday was a real refreshment. So easy to watch where you always have a balanced something positive and negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82602	Reply to the replica of colleague Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82603	Here's a thank you to my colleague, and I still have some things I need to do again. I don't think there's any reason for such pessimism. We agree that everything that is not right should be highlighted. Finally, it's a media business not only of opposition, but of course the media and we expect it. But why go into detail. Let's just say one of the details we're talking about Klasnic and kidney transplanting. In all the news, the situation of Klasnic's kidney. Well, we're all with him. Unbelievable. We support, our desire is to heal a man. But I don't think it's, at least it's not nice to actually talk about it so much. Let's wait a minute. Let's wish him luck and shut up for two, three days, let's wait and see what happens. He's a public figure like a whole bunch of other people. But let's get into homes a little differently. It's amazing. Let's say the commercials in the morning. You do breakfast commercials are slightly degutant. You know about the condition I don't know about this one, the one, the prostate stuff. Well, take a look. It's not all about money. There's little to say to those who pay for those commercials. Reshape them a little bit. Adjust them to listeners because listeners will accept them more easily. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82604	Thank you very much. It's my dear fellow Letica's turn. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's my dear colleague, Selem. Excluse your colleague, Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82605	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Croatian Radio Television. I was thinking whether to take a word or not, because this empty hall is pretty discouraged. She's self-evidently signifying, but fine. Let’s get over it and say a few words that seem necessary to me right away, and I may say it again. Namely, my words will be much shorter, but they will be similar to those spoken two years ago when I gave my opinion on the Croatian Radio Television Programme Report on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. From then on, I think that things have changed in some detail, but in fact those remarks that have been about culture, place of culture, position of culture and art in Croatian broadcasting programmes, and I don't think that national cultures have changed in the first place. Namely, I still don't see the differentiation and specificity between Croatian radio and commercial televisions surrounding us. In this House this morning, there was a debate on the Law on Education, Lifelong Education of Adults, and during this debate, there were facts that we actually know but that are devastating, about the qualification structure of our population, about the number of people without any school, without elementary school, about a tremendously small number of people with high education. So I repeat one thing that I said then. I think the Educational Programme of Croatian Radio Television must play its part there. I concede absolutely and with pleasure that in these programs very high-quality foreign shows. But I think that programme, which was one of the strongest Croatian radio-television impact programmes, is not even close to what it was and what it should be. Then the question of the presence of cultural emissions. Not the culture show, as already said here, the culture show, but cultural emissions, i.e. Contents, concerts, performances, art films, etc. I think we're still in a complete deficit here, that we're in a television program far behind what a radio program with a third program and with a drama program is doing. That the drama programme of Croatian RadioTelevision is if we absorb films, in fact very close to zero and that this programme is either pushed into late night hours, I mean performances of concerts and other such cultural essentials. And in addition, to the productions that used to be, say, productions from serious music, which were once one of Croatia's prime export products today, I'd say pretty much gone. As for the criteria, I'd like to say a few words about that. The information emissions criterion. It's not my idea to count the click he had for seconds which politician, which I really don't care about at this point and I don't want to discuss at all, I don't even want to question that fundamental, let's say, objectivity. However, I must conclude that there are incredibly many private ones in these criteria, and not least objective ones. As an example, I'm only going to give you one thing. In one television "Dnevnik" a review of a completely benign theatre post on that show "Bitang and Princess." That theater is said to benigan, likable, but completely cultural and theatre-secondary. This benign product was dedicated in the first "Dnevnik", in the main "Dnevnik" of Croatian RadioTelevision much more time than some really important cultural events, and some of these important cultural events now will not list them for not taking your time, in "Dnevnik" have been skipped. I think it is a question of criteria that are significant, which are important and which should still have one such control so that not some private sympathy can penetrate the Croatian Radio-Television's "Dnevnik" to create a serious confusion in the criteria. Finally another thing that I would like to say a few words about, he was already talking about that and a colleague of Pupovac, it's a question of language. I mean clearly, Croatian broadcasting with numerous guests present, cannot control the way these people speak. He speaks every word of how he knows, washes, and according to his own kind of, like, express level. But I think you can and must control the speech and language of journalists and people who are constantly on the screen and who are very much acting on the general language culture of this nation, which is unfortunately... Unfortunately, I say at a very problematic level, and it seems to me that there is indeed that educational and educational element of Croatian television that is certainly viewed more than any other medium, must be really important and there is no reason why you do not refer much more energetically to the people who are in that house and who have an obligation to speak a pure literary quality Croatian language, rather than some half-languages that really do not meet our language standard. [[You don't understand.]] I'd like one more thing when it came to language repeat, I asked that question before I thought for two years and last year, I don't know. It's just an example that isn't crucial, but I think it's interesting. Why on Croatian television, she is not alone in it, most media is like this, forsaking the word "sport" at the expense of the Croatian word "port". Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. All Croatian clubs with the word "port" in their name "Hask", "Gosk" etc. they have the word "sport." So I really don't know that Croatian TV that certainly sports shows amongst the most visible and what it says is affecting the consciousness of young people, thousands and thousands of people who don't know the historical difference of the word "sport" and "sport". I would like to ask you and I would like to appeal to the fact that Croatian broadcasting is a serious idea and that it simply accepts one fact which is a "thing" of the Croatian language standard and which is a matter of Croatian historical sports tradition and which is the thing I say Croatian. All in all I'm saying I think that Croatian radiotelevision this assignment of cultural mission, I know that today's word: "cultural mission" may sound a little archaic, a little de pasa, but I think unfortunately, I repeat again in the world or the data we heard this morning, I don't think Croatian radiotelevision should ever give up that cultural show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82606	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82607	So I would correct my colleague Selem because he said "sport" is a Croatian word. The word "sport" is originally an English word, and "sport" is just a Germanized form of English word: "sport" because in German language P is read "Sp" at the beginning of the word "Sp" and we accepted that form somewhere in some form, at some time in Croatia. But neither one is a Croatian word, so the original English word is "sport" and I think it is far more suitable than any Germanised "port". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82608	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82609	A colleague of the representative has been injured by the Rules of Procedure, Article 209. She made the right thing right. I've got it right in front of me, and it says, "Sports law." So that's... No, no, and then you have to talk about sports. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it would say "Sports Act", it wouldn't say "Sports Act" because it's Croatian... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82610	Replica, the distinguished representative of Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82611	Thank you very much. Here I made my contribution last year to the debate on the Annual Report of Croatian Radio Television and in this contribution, I spoke exclusively about the programme, quality, and not the quality of certain parts of the programme. I was hoping that one of you would do this here Mr. Galic is how we hear of leaving, but Mr. Leviak remains, so I hope that through all your possibilities in the action of the programme council you will do something to fix this program precisely because everything I said in my debate which is not right in my opinion in this programme, the children also said at the 6th annual meeting of children and representatives in the Croatian Parliament, say literally this: Do something for us parliamentary representatives because what we watch on television is really inappropriate for our years. We don't have enough documentary programs, we don't have enough children's films, we don't have enough education programs, violence is getting more and more common on television, plenty of blood, plenty of death, lots of violence. Here I am now in this address through the replica because I didn't want to report in the debate because I concluded that it doesn't make sense, that nobody listens. So once again please listen to the voice of the children, they are the most important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82612	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82613	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Galicu, Mr. Left-handed, colleagues and colleagues. Every time I talk about Croatian broadcasting, believe me, it kind of takes me over because I am in that house as an external associate and as a full-time employee spent almost 20 years. In that house, I had my most beautiful moments, but also the saddest. It's not too bad to tell you, and I'm going to say that because of what's next, as one of the few maybe only journalist I was in 2 years and journalist of the year and as a highlight, editor of the year and journalist of the year. But I was also persecuted as a beast and would not wish it to anyone alive because I fought for the truth and because I fought for the dignity of the journalistic profession. Here we are today discussing two reports, the HRT programme and the financial report. I must say immediately that I will not repeat myself, many have already said so. Most of what I meant to say was a colleague of Hebrang and a colleague of Cain. Obviously, we got the same information from the same source, so I won't repeat myself, but I have to say I can't accept this program or financial report. My life chalk, though, that I respect opinions I disagree with, but there's a lot I don't agree with. Here's a little while ago, my colleague Selem was talking about language. I'd still like to add something else about that language. A colleague named Selem has made it very right that we cannot control guests who come to Croatian Radio and Croatian Television to speak, but it is unfortunate that many journalists, journalists and journalists, under alleged signs, do not know their language on Croatian television. On Croatian Radio and on Croatian TV we have an extraordinary service for language, these are people who are top-notch, professional and professional. They're being visited, I know it from my own experience, they're written and educated journalists. They are half-written and illiterate, and there are those who do not know all the letters, and they do not go to the language expert to make as many things as they do not know. For example, here's what happens, for example. that we don't have a rat's word anymore on Croatian television than we have a rat 'cause that's where it says "what." There are many words I have written here in these few days, knowing that today there will be words in the Croatian Parliament, so I will read just a few words, and there are many. For example.: what, security, is, Malta not, apparently, old, cup instead of cups, etc., etc. That's what journalists on Croatian TV say. Oh, please. So, do you know, colleagues and colleagues, and these also to you gentlemen from television as the leaders of Croatian Radio Television are very well-intentioned, we are Croats specific people. We are the only people in the history of civilization who have been enslaved and persecuted for nationalism and chauvinism in their own language. We are the only people in the history of civilization who have been enslaved and persecuted for having nationalist highways. And that is why we Croats are extremely sensitive to our Croatian language. The tongue forms, but the tongue deforms. Imagine when the young population sees public, Croatian, national television and in one show in 45 or 50 minutes 16 times hears the word "what" or 3 times "malte no" or 2 times "security". So please nice, I just can't figure it out. I'm for maximum freedom because freedom never enough, and especially in journalism, but I'm also for maximum responsibility. Because there's no freedom without responsibility, and there's no responsibility without freedom. It may be a bit pathetic but I felt it best on my own skin, which my colleague from Croatian Radio, Mr Mirko Galić, can also confirm. You see, I'm going to say one more thing here about credibility on Croatian television. In electronic media, and especially in Croatian broadcasting, credibility is extremely important. It is important in everyday life but especially on television as the strongest medium of today. These days on Croatian television, we had a show that worked in secret services. And there was a man who introduced himself, who represented Croatian radio television, he said to himself that he was even a journalist. Nine times he said that there was some kind of secret service document on the persecution of a particular person, although it was more than obviously denied by also one participant of that show that it was not any document because it was in some form of A4 something written. He repeated nine times that it was a document, that it was documented. He also said six times that the document was something that was written in the paper. It would be funny if it wasn't tragic. Also this or similar show, but it seems to me to be the same gentleman who is employed in Croatian broadcasting, has recently hosted guests from Serbia, the topic was elections in Serbia. I don't mind people having guests there and giving their opinions. I personally would never do such a show. But what bothered me, only the name Croatian Radio Television means it's national television and one of the participants in that show, it seems to me that once was the Serbian Prime Minister, at the end of that show, tells that employee who says to himself he's a journalist, says to him about this "I heard you're a good journalist, but you're a totally uninformed man". I don't know, someone who could say to himself that he's a journalist that he can afford it. But well, that's his problem, but it bothers me as former employees of Croatian Radio and Future and because it's my national news house. Or, for example, when we look at an example. the same employee when hosting the guests of the party from which he was detroved in '97. In order not to say where the political power then brought him there and that you see a relationship, for example. According to the party's leaders, which has been obstructed there by others. Here are two examples. They were guests of the SDP president one night, and the other night he was Prime Minister. I'm always up for a journalist under the supposed signs of "batting" politicians, but in what way? Because a journalist who represents any media house, and especially national public television, he must defend the dignity of the house he works for, the dignity of his companion, his own dignity and dignity of the audience he speaks to because it is scientifically proven that the audience we address regardless of what context we always have is about half pro counter, half for. But it's obviously not working there. What still bothers me, for example, is that we have some of our colleagues here who have one vote in this House, but there is almost no speech show on Croatian television where she is not there and where she does not speak, for example, in the range of nuclear physics, chemistry, botany, surgery, so I don't know until oceanography. I don't know, maybe if she had a few votes probably to have her for breakfast, lunch and dinner and somewhere on the night we wake up and we have to go to the bathroom. Something else bothers me on Croatian radio, which is that we will never, from the prime terms of certain shows from some journalists, but also from journalists under the alleged signs hear what I know, for example, Croatian Parliament or I don't know Croatian Academy and this and that, but always as in the era of communist dictatorship and their terror is the noun of Croatian in genius. It bothers me so much. Why today, when we are no longer under the supposed legal basis for persecution, we do not have more nationalism and chauvinism in Croatian. Gentlemen, we're finally speaking Croatian. He's ours, he's our I.D. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82614	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82615	Thank you very much. Well, here I fully agree that the speech on Croatian television is very indicative and not to say a worse word, but I would say other than the use of such words that are not even in the spirit of Croatian language are not Croatian words, they are also bad words spoken. Like that. He says I'm coming, I'm leaving, I'm having dinner. It is no excuse at all in spirit, I am not a professor of Croatian language, but I was born in Dalmatia Zagorje where every Croatian word is pronounced correctly and it just sounds nice. How'd that get away? So I'm leaving. And I can tell you that's what got into the citizens' excuses. I notice it at every step and correct wherever I can fix it and please take it and about that bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82616	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82617	Thank you to my colleague Mirjana for supplementing me, but here I am going to say so Croatian Radio Television is only 15, 16 years old. I hope until my age that she too will learn Croatian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82618	Replica, Reverend Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82619	My colleague Lončar also spoke about this issue of language on Croatian radio and I would actually agree with him to fight and insist on regularity, clearly not only of Croatian language on radio television, if he also disgusted me as I see the word sport because it is opposed to Croatian tradition and it is not an extreme Croatian word, it would be a exercise, it is a Croatian word, but we accepted the word sport, it is rooted and thus remains as it is. But I say it also bothers me so much when a sports journalist who is employed on Croatian television in a single transmission or what is already four or five times on the same show says... Mr. Galic I think as much as I will react to such a mistake. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I'm saying... for people who are on television to speak Croatian, clean Croatian and that of the variants that exist, choose those who are... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] tradition, which is very important to the Croatian language and tradition of the area in which it is concerned, that's what I was saying when I was talking about sports, and I also say I insist that foreign languages are equally respected and that the accuracy and accuracy of expressions are equally respected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82620	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82621	Thank you, colleagues, Selem. Here we are again complemented, we could be complemented, but you can see that irony would be the major leader of Croatian broadcasting, Mr. Mirko Galić knows the Croatian language well, and the people he is the boss and who are in the program unlike him they do not know Croatian language. Fortunately, on Croatian Radio, there is a show called "We Speak Croatian". It is hosted by experts and scientists from the Croatian Institute of Croatian Language and Linguistics Zagreb, so I would ask Mr Galic to continue this show for the audience, but to move the show to Croatian television first for journalists and so on. Croatian TV journalists.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82622	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Zuzul.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82623	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Croatian Radio Television, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I, of course, like all of us know that there's not too much point to saying right now because the echo of everything you could say is zero anyway. Croatian broadcasting demonstrated, and I think the presence in this assembly proves that whatever we're saying is about dogs barking, and the HRT caravan goes on its own way. But I'm sorry he's going that way. He doesn't do a lot of good things and he does a lot of professional journalists who are there and he does a lot of work and the success of ratings and things like that. However, what I was saying last time with the same intention I will mention and now again not to cause any effect on Croatia's broadcasting because it is clearly appreciated to me that this effect does not exist. It has no effect either when a man speaks to you with a letter, and in some cultural civilization society where we are, and Croatian television should be in a certain way and a carrier, the promoter is common to reply to the letter and to write the esteemed gentleman whether or not they were a parliamentary representative, what you write is stupid. It's a civilization, no matter what the answer is, and the opposite side is to shut up. It demonstrates power. He didn't write you, he doesn't care who wrote it. Mr. Galic, I say goodbye to your personality, I hope that in your future profession you will not behave this way because if you treat yourself like this on the basis of your own experience, I can tell you that you will not be able to do a good job, because you will not have the power that you have today. You know of course I speak on the basis of personal, but not just personal experience. To make it more absurd, I sent you one letter, to make it clear to others at a few other addresses. With all those others, from all those other addresses I got the answer. The only ones it was addressed to were no. Why? For what I said at the beginning. I'm personally sorry about not running HRT like that, I don't know who's guilty and I don't want to get into it. However, based on the experience of life, watching television in the world and here, what Croatian Radio Television in this clear reality in the conflict in which it is in the transition period between commercialisation and public television is definitely moving to the side of commercial television, neglecting its public function. I would agree very easily with Mr Vujic's words, too, to take care of the aspect, of that aspect of television. And yet, gentlemen, you know, in the world of public television, they're different from commercial ones. Whether as in Croatia, the law determines that they can live no matter how many viewers look at them. And you live well. In Croatia, however, that is not the case. You also impose the criteria of democracy by ignoring completely not only the language in this narrow sense with which it fully agrees, but also in a Semantic sense. Here's an example. It is probably from commercials that I do not go into political interpretations, and this would be discussed, something that does not exist in the world has been offended in Croatia. That's what they're called. referendum issues at the end of some political issues. So please, is there anyone who knows what the term referendum means? Well, the term referendum is a couple of excellences, a political democratic category, quite the opposite of saying 200, 300, 10,000 or 20,000 viewers. That's the opinion of the few hundred or several thousand viewers. But not a referendum. Now. I'm really wondering, is it a matter of so much ignorance or is it a matter of deliberate and systematic manipulation? Because if it turns out to be a referendum, it's the opinion of the citizens, the population. Then, of course, that's what it looks like. But let's be clear. We are not elected to a referendum but to a lower democratic form if we are to set up a hierarchical democracy and these are parliamentary elections. However, for each of us to choose here, it takes about 15 or 18 thousand votes, and in a referendum for one of us to pass, so it would take a few million. Croatian television has declared a referendum 150 or 1,000 and 500, and when 2,000 shows up, that's a lot. Don't do that. It's wrong, it's wrong. In good faith, I think a council has warned you of that. That's what commercial TVs do. Well, that's no excuse. And the fact that you're earning as a particular and significant money is shown in the report, that's no excuse either. There's one more thing about that. Look, I've worked in college for years but also in high school or anywhere. When your student's doing a degree's exam, it's not an excessive public matter. If he's doing some research, it's not much of a science either. He must be willing to give the results of that research to anyone who wants to check whether it is true or not. That is, for Croatia television is not worth it, because that is your so-called The referendum question, he can't be seen by anyone. I asked and at least that's the answer I got and I heard that others asked and the same answers were received. I don't know again if it's intentional or unintentional, by accident or by accident, with political or non-political motivation, but that's bad. Wrong, wrong and wrong. The other thing that is personal to me as someone who has been a youth for years, there has been a talk today, and it bothers me little that I am satisfied as a parent that my children do not watch television and do not watch public television. Happy, because TV could get us a lot of positive. In my childhood, too, I won and the conditions were much harder. But why am I glad they're not watching? Let me tell you a very specific example. A very, very specific example. You all know better, I believe that almost most or all of you watch television more than I do. One week ago in the morning, I turned on a TV and about 8 and 35, so when children watch television, Sunday program, when around the world on both public and commercial televisions, when you come to a hotel room or anywhere, it will be either a children's programme or some religious program, Sunday. On our television, if you'll excuse my ignorance, I didn't even know what it was, but literally this scene. A younger man comes in, he looks nice in front of a club, they tell me there's a folk club in Zagreb, with Mercedes. He pulls a CD out of his car, spills drugs on him, pulls a credit card out of his wallet, mixes that drug, pulls out his wallet and sniffs. I'm not a lawyer, and I don't know if our laws sanction it or not. But I am a psychologist and I know it affects those who watch it. And I know it's on the opposite side of what this Parliament was talking about and the whole society is talking about, fighting drugs. It's a fight to spread drugs, whether you accept it or not. Then I look forward to that show, and I see, there's everything that a man could be surprised about. Sunday morning, a show that's borderline incestuous, that's borderline on everything that's bad in society. It can't be on public television. That'll probably be because my appeal won't mean anything and here I've read how many millions of these shows that see wonders are called "The Plain People." Well, they're not ordinary people. No, God forbid they're ordinary people. God forbid we turn into such common people. Well, you see. That's when television in its public office loses the game against commercialisation. I'd argue equally if I had the opportunity and it was on some commercial television. I know, gentlemen, that this is not possible in the United States or Switzerland or France. Here, turn all the channels of this world on Sunday morning or any day in the morning and you won't see in the open shows that you're giving a prescription on how to consume drugs. That's impossible. That's unimaginable. There are laws that sanction this and perhaps I should speak to the other bodies of this Parliament. I apologize for maybe turning on the TV at the wrong time and seeing something. Then I asked others, and I also saw so that here a lot of my colleagues with equal surprise watched it, and with equal impotence they complained to each other. That's why I appeal, I don't know if I'm appealing, I'm speaking probably for my own conscience and for the recognition and respect of this High House. Well, come on, let's not take everything down to a political game and it's not all a political game. There are things that are ultimately more valuable than who will be director of the new HRT or even if you want who will win the next election. So let's at least try on these things to do what fate has somehow meant for us, which is that we have an opportunity to act on something in a certain historical moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82624	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82625	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Zuzul reminded me by mentioning he said so-called Referendum issues, come on, there was a referendum issue of one precisely on the show or on whether he was prime minister or former prime minister, and the question was whether the prime minister should, his character should be determination or honesty. So I'm asking a question, and probably you, too, whether it rules out each other, whether they're contradictory terms. Certainly not. And the result was about 500 and something, a very small number of viewers responded to such enquiries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82626	Replica is a respected representative of Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82627	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd rephrase my colleagues when he was talking about calls in the referendum. I asked people who deal in Croatia... They're pleading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They say you can call as many times as you want, it's all charged and only three are admitted. So every phone call you can make three times from one number and charge yourself, you can call five hundred times. That's one example. Another thing I'd say when you were talking about these shows. I watched that show that week at breakfast just before I went to church at 9:15 a.m. my Holy Ghost Mass is so that it's just... It's really like the first thing that was a national CD. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was not at all, nor was the Croatian CD, but it was Cece Raznatovic to make it worse. So, why? We now have one problem with this concert from Split tick. It's not on HTV. Here, for five days we read in the paper whether it will be, whether it will be, and when it will be, in the nighttime on HRT Plus. And whoever's watching HRT Plus I don't know. And why is that? We have a big problem. We haven't heard a Croatian song if you don't turn on the National Radio and see especially none. It was HRT Top 20 on Saturdays, and now it's something, it's nothing Croatian. ... If Edo Mother is Croatian, then I am not Croatian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82628	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82629	Thank you. Mr. Arabovic reminded me of something that illustrates again what I'm talking about and why I know of course this won't have any effect. Political parties, and those after television determine life in Croatia, have adapted to the rules of the game. That's what I'm talking about. The referendum issue is becoming even more ridiculous because the parties are organised and voted fictitiously. So we're playing with something here. It doesn't matter, it's television for it, let's call it, let's call it, let's call it the audience's statement. I think it's bad anyway, and there's no such thing in the world. But give that a name that's absolutely inappropriate and therefore a political connotation that doesn't fit I don't think it should work.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82630	The word has a distinguished representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82631	Ladies and gentlemen! I've been thinking if I'm gonna... Cancel my debate tonight yes or no, but it's always said be brave though that courage and I don't think I'm brave tonight if I'm reporting for a debate because I'm going to say something that's not good. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] It is not good for Croatian radio, it is not good for Croatian people, it is not good for listeners, it is not good for viewers, so it is not good for those who pay 66 kuna monthly television subscription. The colleague said tonight, or afternoon, in his discussion about additional health insurance, for example, I do not pay for it and I pay for Croatian Radio and I do not pay for it. Is it patriotism, is it patriotism, or is it the third thing not to say. So I was Mr Galic and Mr Leviaq, on behalf of the rapporteur, commending themselves, congratulating themselves, and saying, gentlemen, "I fell a fly on a bear." So to me once or for my father when I went to elementary school, I was late after a Christmas confession in class just one minute, the school principal beat me up and my father told him what you did. He says, "He fell on a bear." So don't bring us back to that time that's not good for you or for us, so I don't even think that was your intention. So as you can write in this report, here I quote the second sentence "The program orientation of Croatian Radio-Television Croatian Radio-Television Council is a positive opinion mainly with the praise of the programme and the scheme.", it's on page two twice, on page three three times, on page four five times. So why send this report to us if you've boasted yourself. Well, Mr. Left, I was a witness tonight that you yourself were congratulating yourself. And I'm going to say that you were wrong about those cards, and I'm going to show you people. And that's Mr. Galic, last time in the debate, you told me Mrs. Petricevic how you call me when we did so much for the Croats outside the country. From 29 March 2004 via satellite, etc. HRT Plus in 2005 was achieved on average 16 hours per day at the planned level. Broadcasting via satellites to North and South America, Australia and New Zealand was achieved in 2005 as part of the plan sizes of 8 hours a day. These 8 Croatian original hours are additionally recorded in North America and are repeated twice, which makes it three times eight twenty-four hours for viewers and the same twenty-four hours program eight times three times for North America, Australia, New Zealand and there broadcasts. I'm sure you've done it mathematically well, it pays the Croatian people, the tax collectors, you, I, I pay the orderly subscription, I don't know if you pay it. It's usually political parties, the bosses don't pay membership fees, the rest pay. I guess you don't even pay. ... You pay? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, here's something good, positive tonight. In that program, Mr. Galic, the one you gave us tonight mathematically, that's all. Please, I was a few years ago and then when I was a representative of the opposition people came to you and pointed out that Croatian television is watching people outside the country. That this house must be something else than what it is. You're taking me back to the time we watched "Good Day Yugoslavia". What program? What are these changes to the program? Partisan movies. Old concerts. For me, the other day I was watching Teresa Kesovia's concert in the '70s. Beautiful. Every night from the old concerts and so on, I call it the eviction program that always sings. Why didn't you access this program humanly? Well, you're responsible for that house. You always say what kind of father, what kind of headquarters in the house is your house. So I tell you myself tonight, couldn't you have brought a little change to help Croatian television help people living outside the country learn history, national subjects and Croatian language? And you could have done that. And then you get, then you get behind what's going on? Wins, you've got one letter about imitation of the first program through a short wave. I passed it nicely, Croatian Radio, supply of Croatian diaspora in Europe, Ivica Košak, you got it. I forwarded Mrs. Luchev to whom, Croatian Radio is certainly more positive than Croatian Television absolutely. However, Mrs. Luchev replied to me about the technology that you boasted about. Technology on Croatian television is safe and let it be compared, better than all public television in Europe and the world. It was paid by the Croatian one who paid the subscription. And let it happen. Why didn't you use it one human way? You yourself know that by satellite or Voice of Croatia, all people cannot listen to either Croatian television or radio. Digital technology is looking for that technology that every man can't afford if you want to in South America. They watch people first, first and second programs. They point to me and ask me, "Mrs. Zdenka, our dear representative, did in 17 years of the state or 15 years you recognise the state that we did not deserve something we expected from Croatian Radio Television?" You have not justified any of the names of what is called. You're not. I'm shutting down the radio though, even though I'm not happy with the answer. And Mrs. Luchev sent this letter to you, and now I'm going to send this response from Mrs. Luchev and yours to the Croatian emigration and I hope that they will point to what I'm telling you today. I said about Croatian a long time ago when I returned to my homeland, 30 years of foreigners do their part, I will learn Croatian language through Croatian press, media. What I forgot or among fellow MPs. You don't even give me opportunities through Croatian media, let alone Croatian television. Through what? I don't know what? Through what program? Through what is happening today on Croatian television, and that is unacceptable. It's unacceptable that one of your employees sent me and asked me to read the following. I don't know how many minutes I have, so I'll just skip one piece if I do, then I'll go back to this one, to this first part. And I agree with her. Informative shows are arranged by unknown people who have not been journalistically shown themselves. News on Croatian TV is directed by journalism students, lecturers of IT. Who's in charge of the Voice of Croatia? How many people know about eviction? How many know Croatian languages, history and geography? Why don't you, why don't you make it right through the Voice of Croatia more spoken in Croatian, standard Croatian language than you should in some time speak both Spanish and English precisely because of other, third or five generations. But in this case, without any hesitation with Croatian television and a program outside the country, nothing can be learned. A colleague writes: "For some reasons many good journalists who have been thrown aside seem to not fit the profile of listeners journalists as Croatian TV editors need." There are no criteria for progress in the house. The coefficients are reserved for listeners. Although we have been talking for years about the extra employees constantly seeing new names that easily get a job. Anonymous journalists from other television houses are being brought in until Croatian TV journalists are allowed to work. There are many, these license shows that you have boasted tonight that you have a studio called "Dancing With Stars". I wouldn't brag like that. It would be better if you brought us some other commendation that would be in the spirit of the national interest of the Republic of Croatia. Then you, too, as the leader of that house, would be more proud. "Studio 10", "the weakest link", "Who wants to be a millionaire", and almost no home ideas. Is it so hard to come up with a fun show? Has there ever been a tender for emissions proposals ahead of a new programming scheme that employees could contact? Emissions are always given to the same authors. Some of them look like each other. "Good morning Croatia", "Live Life", "Work Lunch", and so on. Almost no profiled music shows at all. There are no competitions for external productions, as far as you know. After many criticisms has there ever been a contest? According to what research do Croatian public interest local soap operas? He's got them. Tonight someone mentioned "The Theatre in the House", "The Theatre in the House" without talking about other shows and what is in "The News of Culture"? Who is visiting in the city of Zagreb? Surely if it hosts a Belgrade theatre at every TV media station, that's the main news. And by chance, one... Let me, a Croatian artist, scientist, journalist, writer, poet, director [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Or anything Croatian does, be sure there wouldn't be a myst in your house. I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And that the most I can tell you is what you neglected and it will return to all of us and that is the latest history since 1990. Yes other public houses Yeah, let me just say a sentence. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That other public houses in European countries have had the past as recently as you have, then we have the CDC, the ARB and your other colleagues have different approaches to their history on the way to the European Union. [[But it's been a minute, come on.]] If you don't appreciate yourself, you won't even be appreciated by others.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82632	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82633	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President, because I didn't expect to be up so fast, so I stopped for a moment. However, in any case, we who stayed at this time show one respect for Croatian television and we care about how to make it as good as possible. I'd look back, and that's how I'd start my own, hopefully a brief exposure because I'll be taking care of your time, considering it's now 20.00 hours. So, I would like to refer to the presentation of my fellow Stazic, who spoke entirely of the need for more culture, more theatre performances on television, etc. And then he said very clearly afterwards, after these and this debate, which I believe was very good on that side, I am convinced that this is not a form of political pressure, and before that, my colleague Vujic, on behalf of the SDP, found that HTV should not be above but outside the parliament. So, the finding and the request to have more theatre shows or to have them on TV at all and to ask that he is convinced that this is not a form of political pressure and the findings of his colleague Vujic on behalf of the SDP that HTV should be not above, but outside of the Parliament I was really impressed. Is this really a statement of HTV's power and actually what counterpart Vujic wanted to say when he said HTV should be outside the parliament. I hope he didn't think it was supposed to be HTV outside Croatia. The Parliament must not be and is not outside the people. I hope that HTV should not be outside the Parliament, and HTV can also remain public, both public television and Croatia. Last year’s debate, which was only because of that one show that was criminally bad or probably deliberately released or because of God, and ask what reasons it had to do with a multitude of arguments and emotions. I agree, however, I have one bitterness left after that debate by the evaluation of people from Croatian television in the debate. So, as far as I can remember, your people on television have assessed this debate directly by waking up some dark forces, etc. I don't know if it's really Croatian radio television's wish to be extra-Saborian. This suggests, all of this points to regret that and all of this indicates that there are forces in this House too, there are people who are trying really to make public Croatian radio television extra-saborial and non-constitutional and any other supervision, so when it comes to finance, program and anything. Then a man asks the question of what can you even say? What could he possibly be looking for? What can he even talk about, and to be properly heard, and then to have something more to say and to be appreciated. My colleague Perman spoke very nicely here about the visit of the children to the Croatian Assembly. These children were so prepared, so organised they talked about the problems of Croatian television, programmes on Croatian television and of us, these children expected from us, from all of us representatives who were there and how we will listen to them and how we will pass on their requests, requests and how something will change for the better. Here, I hope this really happens. But how is this going to happen if a representative in the Croatian Parliament absolutely does not listen, listen, or respect, or anything after that and after the discussion of one, two, five or I don't know who doesn't happen. Not only that, but Croatian TV was also present at that time in the small town hall and recorded it completely all day long, or not all day long, but it can be from a few hours of exposure to all these children. I have followed and in no show of Croatian Radio Television I have seen any news about all these efforts of these dear children throughout Croatia and their leaders, teachers who have carefully prepared and their steps and requests. When it comes to the information program and “Dnevnik” I would ask most sincerely as a doctor that all those news from the chronicle itself really be brief, informative, without any emotion. After all, if there are audiences who really want to watch everything that we watch almost every night on Croatian TV in “Divnik”, if it really enjoys such news then it might not be bad to organize it later, after midnight or around midnight a program that will be called a black chronicle, so that all these people who want to listen to the news to the point and look at all that, unfortunately, violence, blood and emotion, then let them watch it at that time, not at a time when children are there and when people simply have a need and desire to actually see Croatia and in another light of the one where it is constantly shown and officially on behalf of Croatian Radio. After all, here is the newspaper published a few days ago that a respectable agency announced that Croatia is a very desirable country, a country with a high quality of life and in fact a country which many others and which we often cite as role models put behind us when it comes to quality of life, etc. But on the central news show in "Dnevnik" after every viewing of this "Dnevnik" really hits a man, you always get the impression that you live in the wrong country. With all my remarks and dissatisfaction primarily with all the requests that we make here from these speakers, which have no effect at all, I must stress here that I am spending the same time in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina where finally my family who is living there and who is watching Croatian TV and I must tell you that Croatian television is from our perspective from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from my home very, very good television when compared to all the TVs there. And you know that unfortunately the Croats there do not have their own television or have their own program and this Croatian television and this signal is the only one that is theirs and that they are truly experiencing their own words and that they are watching. What's my application to that? From my home, the transmitter on Biokov is literally seen with a naked eye, and we don't have to pay any cards or anything, so we don't have to pay to watch the satellite, or the subscription ok. I ask you to consider the possibility that perhaps Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially Croats located in the central part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, have the possibility to monitor HTV in a way that gives them the opportunity to be either free or truly symbolic for many reasons. And finally one more request. Which is why Croatian broadcasting would not have one regular TV so that it would not be one, let it be monthly, about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Among other things, the Croatian public and Croatia are also sensitive to the issue of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only on their issues, but also on the issues of economic and other cooperation and community in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82634	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82635	Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bagarić, I think I understood the message he wanted to send regarding the protection of children from let's, if I understand correctly, the negative impact of individual shows. But I think it's impossible, that it's impossible at this time of technology and information to completely isolate children from the influence of television and all other media. What the programme council and the directorship of Croatian television should take into account for me is the patterns of behaviour that are placed on this television towards the youth and that you are sure to take good care in which time is shown. What I would have noticed because I listened carefully to my colleagues and colleagues who are now speaking, I would have noticed that we are now mistaken at this point because we are too critically committed to at least part of these discussions, according to Croatian television. Croatian television also has good sides and should be highlighted in the debate and the good sides of Croatian television. I'm quite often as much as allowed to watch, there are shows that are highly valuable, that deserve our attention and that should also be commended from this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82636	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82637	A colleague of Bagarić about your views, i.e. Croatian Radio and its meaning for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I absolutely support you. However, Mr. Galić, director of Croatian Radio Television, promised more support to Croatian television in Kiseljak a year ago, in part, given the status of Herzegovic TV and under the Constitution of Article 10. I think that responsibility is unquestionable but must be in greater scope. And as for the satellite, i.e. the resister and monitoring of the Croatian Radio Television programme, not only for the Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you can certainly follow it without a problem. Mr. Galicu technology progresses every day and you do well know for yourself that five years ago, when new devices and television monitoring began digitally that it is expensive for the Croats in Germany to give up to a thousand and a half to two thousand DEM for the necessary technique in order to monitor the television programme, especially for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So here is the hope that, although something will happen that the Constitution orders you to do, that more support will be given to Croatian television, Kiseljak and other houses in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a Croatian omen, if they are allowed to do so, and that both Croats and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and also in Boka Kotorska, I must give you the same thing, please do not order them, and something must be done to monitor their programme, i.e. the Croatian television programme as parent homes from their home country.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82638	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82639	I thank my colleague Zdenko Babić Petricevic and in fact I am going back to that debate and that part when I spoke about the need for one approach, the whole other approach to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina again with the question: Is it really HRT public television? So if she is public and if she is Croatia then there should be a public but also a national interest especially above each other. It means that I actually understand that in competition I don't know about other TVs either, you should also take care of the financial business in the house, but not in the schools would say everything. So it can't be a priority to charge for the satellite programme, especially it can't be a priority where it shouldn't be and among them are the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82640	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Rožić. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. The word has a respected representative, Vice-President of the House, Mato Arlovic. He's not in the hall. It is!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82641	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all I will say that I will support this report and, of course, congratulate all... on Croatian TV and Croatian Radio on the shifts they have made in achieving the programme scheme, in the consolidation of financial, social and other relations although there are more problems, there is still room for a lot of work and might object to some things, but obviously big progress has been made in this respect. I wouldn't answer so much if I were to talk about achieving the programme itself or about the report itself that there aren't a few questions that I would really like to say, if I may say so, first support the efforts of television. Secondly, if I may say the same, give, give, a little and encourage a particularly programming council, and a little if I may say as representatives... parts and demand that certain constitutional and constitutional rights begin to be realised more quickly. Progress is there, there are a whole series of measures and activities and even programming orientations that do it but it's very slow and not enough. I'm actually talking about minority groups in the Republic of Croatia. I absolutely agree with the major objections brought here for the purposes of fostering Croatian language, Croatian culture, educational and educational functions and through fun if you want a function through an informative function when it comes to members of the majority people or members of the majority people in the diaspora. But we also have to cover this dimension. So allow me just a few words. Look, it's very nice to deal with, when we say minority, not only think about national minorities but also about social, cultural and other groups. It is very nice that television has made and encouraged the step, a bold step towards protecting women's rights, rights of the child, fighting domestic violence, then same-sex communities, gender equality, etc. That's what's important, but you know, it's missing very much in Croatia to discuss those shows and those shows that will talk about associations as such. Especially those associations dealing with humanitarian activity, which are concerned with the protection of humanitarian rights, people in need and not only from the aspect of their actions to help others but among other aspects of educational action, how good it is to do another good. Yeah... and other residents of our country, to encourage our natural and legal persons to think about how others live around us and to see what we can do in this segment to make everyone a little better life and more comfortable than in the Republic of Croatia and to raise personal and individual standards to a higher level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is certainly a lot of space to engage a little more for both the work of both Caritas and the Red Cross and the Rescue and Fire Department, etc., etc., that we are not talking about these special associations that appear in such segments. I will mention between the rest and one association where they have now slowly begun to penetrate new winds in the programming scheme of television and... For example, if you take deaf and deaf in Croatia we are now starting with the sign language of a particular information show to be transmitted, but listen, the mass of films of domestic and foreign. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not at all a great cost to title in Croatian and to let these people go and allow it to be seen, etc., etc. This is what our local televisions are already doing, so why not Croatian TV as well. In fact, such a group could do a great deal and help not only to inform themselves but also to have a difficult loneliness in such relationships that it is actually easier to master and thus communicate with both themselves and the world around it. Of course, I especially need to point out another question that is now related to national minorities. We have "Prism", we have some part-time show on regional parts of Croatian television that talk about cultural achievements and the successes of national minorities, but you know what? This is just the letter "P" on the rights of cultural autonomy of national minorities referred to in Articles 17 and 18. Constitutional law on national minorities. We have a constitutional law that we have passed where we have prescribed obligations that we can and should get to know each other in order to enrich each other's cultures and contents, languages and letters of our national minorities, and should, in fact, through the council, put the way and the possibility of the Programme Council, of course, by the proportionate means that are possible. I agree there aren't enough, but I'm also quite sure there aren't so few that so little in this segment seems as it seems so far. I think it can be much more and in that respect it should actually be made possible, I will not quote, there is no point in quoting the provision of paragraph 1, paragraph 2, and paragraph 3. The constitutional law on national minorities referred to in Article 18, which applies above all, refers to all radio and television houses, but certainly to public television, above all and above all. The third thing I would like to mention is, we all have to support, you know, not only the independence and independence of journalists, editors, etc., but also the possibility of his copyright and self-confirmation. But there's one thing that can't happen, and it happens a lot. And that's very interesting. Not only, I don't know, on shows that deal with information and political issues or deal with culture but all of them. And even those who deal with issues, let's say, cooperation within religious communities, etc. Well, it's actually manipulation with statements and views of participants in individual shows. Look, take, film a person and now give her some time, ask her a few questions and then fit in from all over the neighborhood, take the environments by bit, so just, you know, it just looks so ugly. I've personally experienced it in several cases. And among other things, in my ecumen, I now experienced this, you know, that two-thirds of what I said, and that one one one-third that they let go, they scraped off the edge, off the hill, and then they saw it. It simply makes you feel that then the one watching gets the feeling that he is being manipulated and publicly. I think that should be avoided. Among other things, not only for the protection of the right to communicate with one another and informing one who makes a statement, etc. but, among other things, because of the purity of copyright and in this respect, there is certainly something more to be done and something more can be done and done. Now you see, we have one important function of Croatian TV and Croatian Radio, it is an educational function or, in this respect, when it comes to concrete educational programmes we can expand them, we can... the objection whether or not it should be one or the one or should be extended to one or the one, etc., but there is one dimension that we have completely dropped. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or we use it very little, most of the time it's actually been present lately for programs related to the protection of the rights of defenders and the exercise of the rights of defenders, in part of the pensioners. And this is actually this educational function that needs to be trained and warned adults about the procedures and possibilities of exercising the right to exercise someone's right for the sake of the subject and the content that we need to do. To fit and engage in social processes and social relations, and not only to be excluded, to be placed peripherally, in fact, like those who moan, who are not able to part and because they don't know. And let us be confident and be certain that their ignorance is not only the result of their not wanting knowledge but also the inability, they have no means to reach other media sources that we should buy and which we should provide. And of course, there remains one very important area, and that's the question of how special content, mainly minority groups, works in educational and educational terms, you know. Especially children who are tied to individual programs such as, which represent a lot of violence. I've had the opportunity to compare several times the films I've seen on our television with movies that are banned in Europe because of violence. They normally appeared and showed in the evening, in the evenings at 21, 22, etc., etc. Not only on public television but also on commercial televisions, and in this respect it should be taken into account. I certainly don't think they should be completely shut down. They should be included but should then be moved, especially those films that have too much violence, which have too much brutality, vulgarity, etc., to special programs such as satellite television, Croatian satellite television. Anyone who wants to pay, who wants to pay, who wants to watch that part because it shouldn't be burdened, and it's really very important, to take care of how psychologically it affects children in adulthood, education, etc. Therefore, I think that in this respect too it should be warned of such things and that in that segment it should do much more to address certain issues. And the last thing I'd like to say is there's a lot of things I've prepared to say, and then I made some kind of list of priorities, and that's a question, and I'm not about to balance the news, you know, so that it's one layer of good news, and the other layer of bad news. The news must be published as such, it must be accurate, timely, true, etc., but it is impossible to make such news and that most news is actually a bit of an affair. I know that ratings increases, I know that this competition in relation to private television strengthens the position of public television, and I know that it strengthens the position of editors and journalists themselves, but we also have to take care of what needs to be provided among other viewers, which is to open up space for a greater degree of hope, for a greater degree of expectation, and if you want to ensure that through love and through the education of love, in values that bring some value to man in his future actually gives him more chances and in this respect combines both educational and informatively, and if you will... The second dimension that television has and in which it has a big, big impact on our citizens, and therefore I think that this report should be supported, it gives great progress, the suggestions we make should not be taken as some kind of heavy criticism of Croatian television or the body, but should always be taken well on purpose with the aim of considering on the Programme Council and on other bodies, seeing what can be realised in time, timing and in relation to existing technical, technological and financial opportunities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82642	Thank you. On behalf of the PGS, SBH and the IMF, distinguished representative Nikola Ivanis for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82643	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Vice President, I can stay put. Dear Director and President of the Programme Council, the Club of Regional Parties believes that Croatian television is public television and that in most of its activities and in most of what it does is both objective and professional, of course with occasionally exposed and faults, mistakes, and, unfortunately, sometimes turns out and mistakes. We think that HRT in general is good between the rating and very good where Croatian radio is excellent, and Croatian TV is good, but from the latest reports to today better at performing the function of public service. However, it is obvious that when debated in the Assembly and how television should be discussed in the Assembly, and today there have been different opinions, and above all for whatever reason anyone wants to say, admit or not admit, the party's assessment of the work of Croatian television has been marked primarily by the assessment and attitude of party leadership on how much the party is represented in the internal political programme of Croatian television. Well, it's not even abnormal. The parties do their jobs, public television does their jobs, synchronising there is not easy. That's why I'd point to one problem and I'll address you in writing Mr. President of the Programme Council for that. In this House, a group of MPs who appear to be representatives of the regional bloc, regional MPs, has nine of us. I would ask you to try something as measured as television used to do for 10, 11, 12 months, Mr. Galic knows when it was done. You will see one extremely unfair but low representation of those 9 MPs who act in this House and advocate certain specific interests of their own region. That's it, that's it, and we're in election year. At the same time, today, everything public television should do is listed here. I think that's a good number. Regions are also mentioned, life affirmation and work in regions, but also mutual knowledge of regions. In my opinion, Croatian television is highly scheduled. Sets up a simple concept. We have these county chronicles or panorama as they're called. Why do we have them? That the county news would be familiar with the county. What about getting to know each other and getting to know each other? Well, no one's going to tell me that according to the Međimurje dinars, they wouldn't be happy to see contributions both in Dalmatia and Istria or vice versa. It's just one example. So I think we would, and that's, of course, 30 minutes a day, which is relative to the total production that HTV as public television gives too little. I think we need to do something about it. And the third one I'd end up with and what another one of our remarks is about. It is still not resolved how, how best to monitor the work of the Croatian Parliament. They may be politicians and political institutions more or less in fashion, they may be more or less targeted at criticism, but they report objectively and well on the work of the Croatian Parliament should be, and we still have a situation to carry on as they go, and that it remains part of the work of this Assembly that is not reported and we think that we should talk to the ally and, and about special shows that would give a more informed and objective review in which there would therefore be no excesses and conflicts, rather than who would dominate attitudes and who would be behind which attitudes to make our political public better informed and then also more objective and I think that public television in this election year would have had to go ahead with such shows that would be professional and report what it is today, and it could be minimal, it could be not be 30 minutes of the work of the Assembly, but the views that in the Parliament would have had to have a certain manner of having to have been carried out in a certain way that it. Well, thank you very much. These are our views, and around this part of the representation I would ask you first of all as well as the President of the Programme Council to take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82644	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the proposing president of the HRT Programme Council Zdenko Ljevak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82645	Ladies and gentlemen, there are so many of us that we can talk without a microphone, but here's the deal. A lot of remarks on the program, I will talk about the programme on which the MPs, esteemed MPs and MPs have presented here stands, and if you have read our reports thoroughly, they are very much represented and in our discussions that we refer to or suggest that the programme is changing or supplementing. I accept as well as the last time I accepted all of this, and I have written down the name and I will look very clearly for a stenogram and convey this debate to the Programme Council and ask that the Programme Council be introduced from word to word. But there are some things here that I have to admit are not clear. Here, I'll be straight on a few things. I have a lot of questions here, but there are no agents. The public television initiative, the programme was done, it was done, it is done, so now it's already being done by the directorship, it's out of the control of the Programme Council, but the Programme Council has discussed it, measuredly reached a conclusion, actually gave guidance under quotes, in fact advised how this can only be carried out under the law of the Directorate. As far as I know, this procedure is still going on, it's being negotiated or I don't know what it is. I don't understand a parliamentary representative who's been here ten minutes on the program. I'm going to be a little bit critical now. Allow me to say, in my own presentation, that in ten minutes, he is talking about the Croatian Broadcasting Programme and that one single criticism is being directed and suggested to the Parliament not to accept the programme. Our report. I have to admit it as a citizen, as a representative of the Council, I can't accept it, I just don't know which way it's going. Whether the program will be accepted or not is a matter of individual actually putting each member here, a parliamentary representative, and I certainly don't want to talk about it at all. It'll be what it's gonna be. Personally, I think there's been a lot of progress made compared to last year. Last year we also made remarks, and it's a lot quiet. They're not right, I didn't register them all who were that nothing had changed. That's not true. It's changed a lot from direct shows, from public interest shows, if you want music. Here, I've had an observation here that it's not in the field of culture and in the area of culture here I mean, I don't think, I'm telling you that somewhere on March 1st is starting to shoot already theatre shows, so what was going on here is going on. So, in the area of culture or cultural events, there's a lot more to it than it was a year ago. And let me not tell you that when we adopt and program orientations for 2007, which does not apply to this programme, we have made much more progress, and that this result will begin to be seen and will actually be seen as the emissions happen now. Was there an objection to soap opera or not? Foreign-origin emissions or not? Such remarks, which the Council observed coming out of some context of public television, indicated. And even called for responsibility and actually "made" the conclusion that the issue was then discussed and I must admit that we have often and most often received answers, arguments that we can no longer influence. There's been a lot of talk about buying out finished shows, are we, are TV capable or not? In my presentation, I said that Croatian radiotelevision is technically capable of performing top-quality shows, and this can also be seen to be an increasing number of shows either in co-production or in fact direct domestic emissions. There's a problem with the documentary program, it's not enough, it's not enough in the drama, it's not enough, we've pointed out all of this and there's even a financial plan for 2007. Somewhere around 40% of more funds are invested in a documentary and cultural programme, so it's not exactly like this, it's not the state of television today as it wants to be shown through these discussions. Something we fully accept as a Council and something in which we insist on what Agent Loncar said, you will see a full report, enter the email, on the web. page and you will see our record when talking about Croatian, about the use of Croatian language on Croatian TV. I will repeat once again that there is no public institution, not to say public television that has such a well-organised educational system but unfortunately journalists do not use it and we have made very serious criticism to the Head or Director of Croatian Television and has even hired her to inform us what was done about it, done. In fact, they recommended that she use her legal powers, hierarchical powers, so that she chooses to apply other sanctions that she does not adhere to. So, it's the work of the Council and with all this work I can't accept going back to that proposal, no Parliament, don't accept that report, because I didn't say anything about that report. It's something that as president I have to admit hurts and bothers me. Here a representative raised a very sensitive issue of the new election of directors of Croatian Radio Television, so it began whether he was going to the government, not going to the government, taken under his hands, etc. I mean, it's picturesque. I want to take advantage of this stage and tell you the parliamentary representatives who have chosen us, who have given us confidence, only the Council of Croatian Television will be elected by the Director-General. It's his right under the law, and he won't let anyone get involved in it. I put it out there in the media a few times, and I'm standing tight, you can change the law, you can change me, but while the Council, while it acts and works under that law, that's how it's going to be. So I mean, we don't need to calculate and we're going to find it difficult if they're gonna be, if there's any questions like this even in, and from the pay phone. Let us have the criteria, legislator, the Statute has told us who they are. For us is the basic criterion for meeting the formal conditions, the programme but above all persons who will guarantee further independence of Croatian broadcasting. That's something we'll insist on. I needed to repeat it because it was and that was the conversation here. Mrs. Babic, I'll return directly to you. The Left didn't boast anywhere. You cited several remarks where the Council, the Council actually approved Croatian Radio without notice approved a programme which is therefore such that, after every three or six months, a programme has been adopted and then the Council says, that the remarks are not to be made. So here it is said, it is about the Croatian Radio which had no objections and said it is good and let us have the right to tell the Council what is good. We don't have to agree, we don't all agree on the program. We're all satisfied with one program, the other we're not. Here I have to accept a very serious observation in the field of education and education, which I will be very serious about and conveying to our members that we need to do even more work on this. To educate children, to educate actually young and young. But I'll remind you of something you don't know. A young man from the age of 7 to 17 was, they were the strongest and most faithful viewers of the Big Brothers. What I don't think can and can never come to public television. So it's not just a program, TV has its legal obligations in the program, but I actually recommend to my kids something else when that program is, when I have the TV on. It is not only on Croatian television, it is not that there is no programme, it has a program but it needs to be stronger and I think it needs to be even more original than events, national events and what we are really interested in in in life. The word referendum here I remember well Mr. Radin was also last year, and on the parliamentary committee he criticised with the right and I agree, I support all those who speak so. The referendum actually creates, in principle, a referendum creates a public opinion. Isn't that the right way because we talked about it on the council, too? We got an answer that's how it's done elsewhere but they'll see how it can communicate with viewers without being in this form. I don't know, we'll re-translate the majority's position, namely most MPs supported it through their debates, and see how they can especially and contact the shows organized without creating a single fake image actually of what's going on or what the public thinks. In the end, I'll just say it because the last Mr. Bagaric spoke. I assure you many things have been accepted from last session of the Parliament, all that is well-meaning. And I, at least that's how I'm going to boast, but I think the programme this year or last year is much better than the years we've been reporting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82646	I thank the President of the Programme Council. HRT editor-in-chief Mirko Galić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82647	Chief Director, so you won't give me the authority to talk about the program and I'll be in charge of the program.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82648	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82649	I want to thank all the MPs who have been here for five hours together with us with Croatian Radio and Television followed this debate and participated in it. I thank all those who have given us critical support, so highlight some of the elements in our business, in our program that deserve a positive relationship and point simultaneously to failures, weaknesses, mistakes, insufficient quality that we certainly have in our work and in our program. I don't want to be surprised that I'm also surprised by some criticisms that went apodically on full denial of any result whether it's business, whether it's a program, but I leave it to critics who otherwise say they don't watch our programme which they then criticise and leave it to the Parliament and the parliamentary political parties to resolve it. I want to, I won't look back on many remarks. I say, I'm most grateful because I think they're hitting the problems we have and helping us solve them. We haven't achieved perfection as much as you seem to have presented the perfect situation. We haven't even reached the upper limit of our options, then we'd have to give up and just say what we did. We can do better, we can do more, we can talk further about Olympic terms but we need to better organise our remarks, the criticisms that are said here and the support that is given us will certainly help to continue this no matter what the composition of this or that leadership will be, either in the future or in the future composition of this House of Commons. Let me finally look at a few questions that I think are important, especially from my point of view. One is the relationship between the Croatian Parliament and Croatian Radio Television. As much as the notorious thing seems to be, obviously, it's not because there have been constant differences here today in interpretation and even in attitudes. Is Croatia radio-television above? I'm sure it's not even how we feel. We do not rule this House, and in no way do we have any direct influence on its decisions, conclusions, and its activity. We inform the Parliament and we are successful if we are objective and if we express the plural spirit that is in this representative home government. If we're not above and if we're being argued that we're above, does that mean we're underneath? And that would be bad or equally bad. The Croatian Parliament can't even edit Croatian Radio and Croatian Television, there is no legal authority, I don't have them and I don't edit them, I don't operationally edit the program, maybe because I have a habitual experience in editing, so I don't cross the limits of competence when I know that crossing would be dangerous for this program. Once he crossed that line, he may have crossed it forever because one offense would try to repeat it. So, the Croatian Parliament has its function and Croatian television is its own. The Croatian Parliament is also the owner on behalf of the state, founder of Croatian Radio-Television and these are pure relations in which everyone independently does his part of legal and constitutional responsibility. I think there are fewer disputes today than there were last time, but obviously there are some relapses left that I want to point out in that any way you want to say goodbye to us because I've reached some Bible number for seven years and one way or another maybe it's time for someone else to take my place. Besides, it's the last year of my term anyway. The second big question is the public and commercial relationship not only in the programme that the President of the Council spoke of but also in business. The comparisons imposed here by public Croatian television, commercial private television in Croatia can be fooled. Today, on the European agenda and public television is a European patent to delete these large borders or differences between public and commercial although they remain in important matters and by that, and it is our responsibility to strengthen public content. But I'll tell the contrary to some critics who haven't seen any change that there is, they're not enough yet. They can be of both scale and quality better but they are there, even on the agenda of culture and art. Well, two new shows with cultural news and science news are four. We are according to the contents of a public educational, cultural and artistic profile on the Eurovision barometer at the very top, among five televisions. Therefore, we need public television in Croatia or Croatian public television to compare us to get a good, real picture with other public TV in other countries. If you can turn the remote control, do whatever tests and you will see that we are not lagging behind in public content or by some other quality standards. Third subject, digitization. It seems to me that this is a key issue with which Croatia's leadership and Croatia's meeting will be met in the future term. In 2012, at the latest in 2012, Croatia will have thirty-two, two networks, thirty-two television channels. You see what these are possibilities of expansion... Many of them will be thematic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe it will then be a special thematic channel. For movies, for culture, for education, documentary perhaps. We're a small country, not much. For sport anyway. We're a small country, we can't do much, but I'm sure we'll need to fill those 32 channels, otherwise our neighbors will keep an eye on them whether they're empty or full. If they are empty, they will ask for their fill. And this is what would the leadership of Croatian broadcasting that is already working on with both government representatives and representatives of the Telecommunications Agency take on, even more busy and define a clear, precise programme when the first, second and third phases of complete digitalisation of the television market in Croatia will end? Fourth question, language and speech. Everything that is said on this subject has been said for a reason, it is rightly said. Our language and speech are not at the level of our responsibility for language and speech. We did, the President of the Council said it nicely, well organized but unfortunately we are not effective. We have not only services, high-end services, from top professionals. We have a special body that is headed by Professor Laden who works, who advises, who proposes. Unfortunately, we don't manage to organize these schools to be effective. We have recently published a languageometer that lists a few dozen and hundreds of examples and gives us typical and most often mistakes that journalists make. You don't respect that enough either. If only that were to be read, you'd learn a lot less mistakes. It remains our great commitment and remains our debt to national culture because there is no more powerful institution than Croatian did. Rather than Croatian Radio and Croatian Television when it comes to language formation. And the last one seems to me to be the question that I am here or my last relationship with emigration, and especially Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have to react to that because I have personally shown extreme understanding towards the Croats in the neighbouring state. And it's not true that he hesitated with the Acid. The acid was given everything he asked for and what we could give. It is not true, we gave Croatian TV Mostar. All rights of availability of Croatian TV, transmission. We gave Tuzlan TV, which also partially addresses the Croatian public in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What? Yeah. We did. All that, all that, but we can't, and you can't ask us to bear the burden of cards, satellite devices, transmission devices, that's what we can't do. We don't have any legal stand for it, and it might be good to combine authorities and television to seek a permanent solution. And the last thing I want to explain about the loan is that there's no doubt left that we have 195 million credit obligations. Our revenue of about a billion and a half is not a critical debt, but we have invested this 195 million loans and more than 400 million own funds in development and therefore we have modern technology and modern digital equipment today. She, the process isn't over, coming to order regional centres. This is where the delay was mentioned. It is, it is registered and it is the next stage of digitalisation and modernization of Croatian television. I want to thank again all the MPs who have had the patience to follow me in these, now almost 7, in these seven years and for all the criticism I am as sensitive as to praise. They form an integral part of both yours and my business and we go after this together, which would be a new victory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82650	I thank the head director of HRT Mr. Galic. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. Tomorrow is the sequel at 9:30 with 4th point: The final draft law on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community programme on the interoperability of the provision of European cross-border electronic services to public administrations, entrepreneurs and citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82651	We should now vote on the HRT Labour Report, the HRT Directorate's Report. There's a representative of the Loncar has something to say. Here's a representative of the Lonchars.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82652	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I am speaking to you in accordance with Article 17. I ask you, our Rules of Procedure, I ask you, Mr. President, to postpone today's vote on the programme and financial report of the HRT. My explanation. Roughly as we discussed this programme and financial report two days ago, article 16 of our Rules of Procedure was severely violated. I'll remind you and your colleagues and colleagues in the assembly what it's all about. Article 16 states that all official materials, documents and data prepared or collected in the working bodies of the Assembly and the professional service of the Parliament, the Government, the ministries and other bodies of the state administration which relate to the topics discussed in the Assembly are available to the representative. The materials, documents and data referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may also be made available to representatives via the Internet site depending on the technical capabilities of the Assembly. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, today we have seen materials on the Internet from Croatian Radio Television that have not been available to us. Since we've been discussing something we didn't know, it's about new circumstances where I'm free to say it because I'm extremely attached to that house, it's about a moral, political and professional prostitution covered by the most subtle forms of crime. We've been bombed in this House in two months by the Brodosplit. Let it be investigated and all those who have been doing illegal work there be punished. But according to what we saw on the Internet today, if that's true, then "Brodosplit" and "Brodosplit" affair, according to this, is a simple toy of children. That's proof of that, too. Many colleagues and colleagues in our Parliament have praised this unfortunate and narcissistic law on HRT. He has now proved that it is such a vicious law and such a law does not exist anywhere in the world. Under the law, a subtle and legal robbery took place on Croatian television because you do not have one who understands electronic media anywhere in the world in this way taking emissions from external production. This is so-called. external production and these are so-called. emissions from external production. Given the new circumstances, I ask you nicely in the interest of the Croatian public, in the interest of this House to postpone today's vote to see if everything that happened on the website today is true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82653	And what happened on the Web site? What happened on the Internet site? ... What's on the website? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82654	Yeah, I'm sorry, I wanted to be. Today we saw on the website that two shows...... Please, nice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] How are two shows from so-called Foreign productions have earned 6 million kuna. Six million kunas. May I remind you what an external production should be? The outside production should be when you do all the work and bring the tape and just put it in the player. You should check what is external production here, how much you use Croatian television studies, how much other techniques are used, how many people are used. For example, and how and how the mix counter is used, etc., to keep you from talking about these things, I'm deep into it. So if that's true then simply we've been deceived, it's broken in the harshest possible way of Article 16 because what's on the Internet today we agents haven't had and that's another way to prove the nature of this law because he made that legal robbery possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82655	Thank you. Representative of the Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82656	Dear Mr. President! I would have also advocated a delay for seven days due to new circumstances. Namely, counterpart Miroslav Rozic is urgently invited to the state's attorney, Mladen Bajic, in connection with the case. Furthermore, these new circumstances question the government's positive opinion in this light. I apologize, turn off those phones. So I'd like to not raise any of those tones at all. Seven days won't ruin the world. We have graciously crossed over the fact that the principal director is limiting the staff, restricting the freedom of expression and professional action of two people. I personally understood it in some way because it protected the reputation of the Republic President's institution. This could really be about organized crime, and I don't think seven days is gonna change anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82657	And on behalf of the Club of HSP Representatives, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82658	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, given the new circumstances and the fact that the government has given a positive opinion also means on the financial report, I am speaking here on behalf of the HSP Club, above all, on this part of the financial report, I think it would be wise to postpone the vote on today's point of view because the government has the opportunity to come into possession of all these contracts that we are in the HSP Club and that Mr. Rozic has taken to the main state attorney and I don't think we should be in a fight between the HDZ Club and the Government because they are different views. The government supports what it means to gain knowledge? It doesn't mean anything. Because according to the law, we adopt or don't adopt a report? So in order not to further create speculation, I suggest that after all this and after the debate, after these new circumstances, the government reconsiders the financial report so that the public doesn't deal with speculation, does there have any crime? No crime? And then let's see if there's anything the state's, the state's attorney general can take away? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82659	Thank you. HDZ Club President-in-Office of the Honorable Vice-President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82660	Mr. President, the debate has almost opened again on this agenda point since the government report accepts this one and the other report with considerable remarks and so on. Croatian Democratic Community Club cannot accept the report either, but would take it into consideration [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82661	Gentlemen, please. SDP club respected representative Antun Vujic. You can see I have eyes on my ears.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82662	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. All procedures are performed in normal and intended procedural form. Reports have been delivered, and every day, there's a lot of stuff on the Internet. So if there's something out there that would cause this kind of need then it'll probably be a question for the State's Attorney's office and not for this Parliament. The debate is over and we ask that it be forwarded by procedure. How anyone will vote is his business. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82663	All right, all right. So here's the proposal, so it's procedural to postpone the vote. The proposal is to vote and proceed. The Club of Representatives, individual MPs, Lončar representative, Letica representative, MP Kovacevic suggest that the vote be postponed for the sake of new circumstances of supply. The HDZ and SDP representatives' club proposes to vote. So I'm going to put the vote to a decision on whether or not to postpone the vote? What? That would be the first proposal? Who's up for it from the MPs and counsel to take? Let's get on with it. Who's in favour of delaying the vote? Who's in favour of delaying the vote? If you vote to postpone the vote, you vote against. You're voting. Come on, how do we do that? [[The intruders don't understand.]] Who wants to postpone the vote? If you vote for a vote delay, then you vote with, with a plus key. With a plus key. If you vote in favour of not delaying the vote, you vote with the minus the vote it writes on. So who wants to postpone the vote? Instructions for the vote. The result? It's 14 to postpone the vote. There are eight abstentions. And 63 is to hold the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82664	Then we'll vote. We do. Democracy, democracy, democracy, democracy was at work here. [[The intruders don't understand.]] And seen. So we're going to vote we have a proposal from the HDZ Representatives Club in connection with the report by the HRT Directorate on business for 2005. The club suggests that, in conclusion, the 2005 HRT Directorate's report on HRT's business be taken into account. Please, let's get on with it. ... It's gonna be a turn and... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It'll be your turn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please vote. ... He's voting plus, plus. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The result of multiplication is plus and minus. 62 to conclude. Two abstentions. And 17 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82665	Therefore, it is concluded that the report of the HRT Directorate on business for 2005 is being taken into account. The second conclusion is that the report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by the laws on HR and HTV programmes is taken into account, that is the same conclusion, the proposal for the conclusion of the HDZ Club. Let's vote first. Let's get involved and vote. The result? With 66 votes for, 2 abstentions and 17 against, this conclusion was adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-31-0.u82666	As for the conclusion, proposals for government conclusions and working bodies, since we voted in favour of most votes, these conclusions were accepted. And these conclusions are accepted. Then it is unconditional to vote on other proposals, conclusions that are diametrically contrary. ... There is, the opposition has the right to vote on the government in elections, elections. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] That's what you ladies and gentlemen are really consumed so if we weren't wasting our time, it's about economics, it's about, we wouldn't vote on it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I'm closing the session. Continuing tomorrow, tomorrow at, Wednesday, not tomorrow for God. On Wednesday, we will discuss the government's responsibilities in the textile and shoe industry. And then about these laws that are included in the agenda today.
