ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92708	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia today proposes to rebalance the budget and therefore proposes amendments and additions to the 2007 budget. Second year in a row, we suggest lower levels of fiscal deficits without changes in the tax system, without reducing social rights and without abolishing development projects. On the contrary. These amendments provide additional resources to address the commitments undertaken for further development and social policy. But before I explain the changes to the budget that we are proposing today, let me put the entire fiscal policy in a macroeconomic context. First of all, I would like to point out what is already these days and publicly enough that, in the first quarter of this year, gross domestic product growth of 7% was achieved. The movement of industrial production to retail, construction, as well as other indicators above all in tourism suggest a continuation of living economic activity in the second quarter, therefore growth, economic growth at the level of the whole year, can be expected to be higher than 6%. Whether 7% of the first quarter is going to be held is difficult to predict at this point, but it's definitely going to be greater than 6%, so it's going to be going between 6 and 7 to these forecasts. The accelerated economic activity is being monitored and labour market developments, which are also seen by a reduction in the number of unemployed from nearly 24 000 compared to last year or which means around 8.3%. According to such movements, a further reduction in the unemployment rate and its downturn to the lowest historical level in Croatia can be expected, and this will be below 10%. She's already 10.12 today, but she'll probably fall below 10% over the next few months. These indicators demonstrate the regularity and success of the government's economic policy, which is based on encouraging long-term sustainable economic development and reducing unemployment, i.e. increasing employment, which of course means a higher standard of living for all Croatian citizens because it is our biggest concern. Of course fiscal policy plays a key role in achieving these objectives. The further reduction of deficits opens much more space for the private sector in creating long-term sustainable economic growth, and the focus of budgets on strategic developmental areas, with the retention of social justice, ensures further economic development of the country and leading to these macroeconomic indicators and favourable conditions in the country, and most of all to the strategic objectives of the government that I have set out to you, we have decided to make changes and additions to the budget for this year. So we provide funds for further implementation of our development-oriented policy. First of all, this refers to the even development of all Croatian sites because it is our absolute priority, and therefore from this budget, and I will start 87.5, meaning 87 million and 500 thousand kuna go to the Regional Development Fund for Capital Infrastructure Economic Projects Programmes and help local units to use the European Union funds and implement those projects in which we have said a lot in the Parliament, these are public-private partnership projects. We will also allocate 243 million and 800,000 kuna for the system of support for farmers, fishermen and Croatian villages. In line with the Council's conclusion on the activities necessary for the implementation of the legal regime of the protected eco-fishing band, we have provided additional 114 million kuna. Furthermore, our commitment to the development of the country as a knowledge-based society is seen in the separation of 290 million and 800 thousand kuna for programmes in science and education. Of this, an additional 90 million kuna will focus on the implementation of the National Programme of Measures to introduce compulsory secondary education, which is free textbooks and we are announcing this here since autumn, first grade high school free transport of all students to high school and which will, in a sense, relieve parents in financial terms and ensure greater education for our children. These are just the application of the conditions and this is the beginning, but what will mean is an important step that will also be when we legally regulate mandatory secondary education. This year we begin to create conditions with incentive measures for parents and all others, and then in the next term of office, we will try to start it, create a legal obligation of compulsory secondary school. In the context of strengthening social justice, as I have already announced, we will increase benefits for the unemployed from a thousand to 200 kuna. It should be said that this fee has not been changed, that it has been the same for about 7, 8 years, if not longer. I don't know exactly the statistics. We are therefore taking a step here that we believe is extremely important and necessary, but of course in the next term of office, we will also talk about this in the programme when the time of autumn comes, and we will also ask that at the Employment Office to make a permanent change in both models and thinking, but also everything that follows the measures on the labour market. I was talking about it at the party meeting last Saturday, so I'm not going to announce here, but we're doing the first step with a thousand kunas, a thousand and 200 kunas for the unemployed. We will allocate an additional 290 million kuna for the defenders and for the translation of defence pensions. Also, the extras for children have increased by 107 million and 100 thousand kuna with this rebalancing. In addition, it should be said that this government, ladies and gentlemen, has been resolving since 2004, the consequences of non-compliance with the signed collective agreements of 2000 and 2001 of the former government, since over a billion kuna has already been allocated. With this rebalancing, we further allocate 440 million kunas of which are only 380 million kunas for the activities of the Ministry of the Interior. Finally, I must highlight the largest item of this rebalancing which is aimed at resolving the outstanding and unpaid obligations in Croatian health care. The level of health obligations has been high since 2002. We now provide a billion and 700 million kuna with rebalancing to address this issue, which is a billion and 200 million kuna for the recovery of debts and 500 million kuna for the functioning of health in general, for the prevention of the accumulation of new commitments that could arise during the year. In addition to resolving all these issues, and this is what I left for the end, with this rebalancing of ladies and gentlemen, we want to send a strong signal to both the Croatian public and this House of higher education that as Government we want to continue the deficit reduction policy. Any state that seeks to control public finances reduces and does not increase the deficit. And that is why we, and from these additional revenues, propose to the Croatian Parliament that some of the funds be directed towards a reduction in the deficit that so far was 2.8% for 2007, and now we suggest that it be further reduced to 2.6%, so that part of the surplus revenue is directed to reduce the deficit. Unlike some who demand the deficit to be as high as possible and that it will speed up the economic activity of Croatia, and we have heard these days that the deficit should also be 7% and that it should finance economic growth, development projects, we think it is possible to reduce the deficit to zero and speed up Croatian development and economic activity. So our goal will be as the whole time in these four years of mandate was and I think Croatian citizens welcome it, to reduce the deficit and to zero the deficit of dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that's possible. And this is the first step of 2.8 we go to 2.6 and I'm sure in the next term of office, for the next two to three years, the deficit can be zero. And I think it should be a consensus on that. In any case, we will be tough and determined against the state raising the deficit to 7% and financing development through the deficit. We think it's possible for both of us, that's what we've shown in this term. I suggest, to this House of Highs, I thank you for your attention, and I suggest that you accept the budget rebalancing after the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92709	Thank you. Reporters of the working bodies? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Honored Chairman of the Committee of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92710	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In view of the importance of the rebalancing and the expected proposal, allow me to read fully the report of the Committee held yesterday at the session. In addition to the rebalancing of the state budget, the proposal to amend and supplement the financial plan of the Croatian Waters, amend and supplement the financial plan of the Croatian Autoroads and amend the financial plan of the Croatian Roads, the proposal for amending and supplementing the State's plan for the insurance of savings deposits (DAB), the proposal for amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the Environment Fund, the proposal for amending and supplementing the state budget and the financial plan outside of the budgetary funds, the financing account for the 2007 changes and addition of the state budget, in addition to these annexes, that I do not read them from the others that were included therein. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 77th session held on 4 July the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament by an act of 2 July... The rapporteurs first presented macroeconomic indicators this year and the following. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the first quarter of 2007, a real annual growth of 7% of gross domestic product was reported. Industrial production increased 8.1% in the first five months at the annual level, while construction works increased about 5.5% during the first four months. Real growth in traffic trade to less than 7.5%. Positive trends have also been recorded in tourism, so the growth of tourist arrivals is 13.9 and the growth of tourist nights is 8.5% at the annual level in the first four months 2007. The accelerated economic activity was also followed by a further reduction in unemployment, so that in the first five months of 2007 the average number of unemployed decreased compared to the same period of the previous year by 20 thousand unemployed or 6.4%. According to the new 2007 plan, total budget revenues amount to HRK 108.5 billion and the original 103.5 billion, approximately 13.9%, compared to the previous year. This kind of assessment... is in line with the achievement of revenue in the first five months and expectations by the end of the year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With the proposed rebalance of the state budget, increased revenues are used to further invest in the even development of Croatia 87 million, then in education and science 290, I am telling the framework that I am not fully reading the figures. To support agriculture in the Ministry of Agriculture, the water economy 243 million etc. Then for the resolution of debt in health care, we stress this primarily for the sake of sick health which almost all the time characterizes all previous years and so far, as most important...... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then the executions regarding the unpaid Christmas card, the regression of public and civil servants, the tenants. The second, as well as the provision of additional 114 million kuna, activities necessary for the implementation of the environmental and fisheries protection regime. In addition to those parts of the revenue will not be spent but this rebalancing defines a lower deficit than the previous plan for 2007, so the deficit is reduced from 2.8 to 2.6 GDP from minus 4 billion 597 million kuna and the rebalance decreases by a billion and 100 million kuna, respectively, to 3 and 497. The total budget expenditure in 2007 amounts to 111 or almost 112 billion and is 3.9 billion since the original plan in 2007. In 2007, business revenues are 3 billion 496 million less than expenditure. In view of the fact that the operating expenditure also includes interest of €4 billion 586.9 million, State consumption is resulting in full financing from income without the need for further borrowing. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament fully supported the draft amending and supplementing the State budget for 2007, decided to propose to the majority of votes with 7 for and 1 abstention of the Croatian Assembly the adoption of amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 as well as Decisions on granting consent to the amending and supplementing the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2007, Decisions on granting consent for the modification and addition of the Croatian highways for 2007, Decisions on granting consent to the 2007 Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2007 and Decisions on granting consent to the 2007 Change and Completion of the Fund for Energy and Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92711	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92712	Dear Mr. President, distinguished government officials headed by the Prime Minister, esteemed deputies. Croatia is indeed a unique country on the globe of the earth. We had a bloody war, a third of the country was occupied, and at one point we had 600,000 exiled and avoided, not counting on employees in state services, countys, cities. There's a pensioner coming after one of the employees. What wasn't brought down in the time of the war during the conversions was alienated and yet it's still living as if it were living, and from year to year we have to admit it all the better. And we also see that from year to year, our budget is increasing. This rebalancing is about how 1,7 billion kuna should be allocated to health care. So 1.2 for recovery plus 500 million kuna for new liabilities. I hope that Istria won't be skipped. Debts on collective contracts for unpaid overtime to police officers, etc. 400 million kunas, education 291 million kunas, agriculture 250 million kunas, regressions or Christmas bonus 143 million kunas, demographic policy 100 million kunas, for undeveloped municipalities of 70 million kunas, for ZERP 70 million kunas, etc., is not bad. Let's be honest, and let's face it, Mr. Shucker has a reason to gloat today. By the end of the year, he will have de facto 5 billion kuna more than he planned at the end of 2006. Now, the question is, what should we do now, and how long will it go like that? This year in 2006, she was not there in 98, so she was the first year after the introduction of the VAT when suddenly we created 7-8 billion kunas in the budget that Mr. Skegro was handing out to those who at that time shared his political worldview at the local level. After that, it happened in '99. For years, there was an attack on the SR Yugoslavia, one ruined season, America, Europe isolated Croatia, pressured it for the purpose and political change, there was a negative growth no matter what it was in '97. If I'm not mistaken, it was about 7%, and in 2000 it started again from the beginning. Now I'm sure there's some important instability in our neighborhood I guess there won't be. We see that our tycoons have become the biggest investors in Serbia, clearly in Switzerland. Why it is not difficult to conclude in Switzerland. But we're getting ready for another time bomb the government isn't talking about, and that's an external debt. We have gross social product growth for that first quarter of 7%. Not bad someone's gonna say. Istria had a growth of 11% a year three, four years ago. Of course, it didn't impress anyone. Shouldn't I, but something else might have been more important that the export probably downstairs was only covered by all other Croatian counties or one space with 210 thousand inhabitants has almost twice as much if not more than twice as much exports than our neighboring Primorje-Gorski County. There's a few more good vibes I'd say in this financial situation. Of the 1.7, the Finance Ministry Regulation, which increases the amount of the annual non-taxable part from 2 thousand kuna to 2 thousand 500 kuna, means that something could remain more and more for our employees, means something should grow pay. In the first three months, VAT revenues had an increase of 11.2%, tourism revenue increased 7.9%, which would say that I should express myself more and drink and smoke, but regardless, I think 0.5 of the gap should be returned as soon as possible. But what are we doing now? Instead of reducing the VAT as promised in the 2008 pre-election campaigns, we are now clearly spending. In the club we advocate differentiating rates, introducing that rate of 5% to all food clear children's supplies etc. to meet most citizens. Why? Because VAT is usually "not full of rich, full of poor," that's the point. The second rate would be this 10% for tourism and clearly 22%. But the food I don't know, it's certainly the biggest item in the home budget, and that's why it's kind of important to lower it because that's the only way we can increase sales in the store, in the catering, in the rural household, and so on. Finally, when it comes to the growth of gross social product growing at a rate of 7% in Serbia, it grows at 8.7%, in Slovenia 7.3%, in Macedonia even higher, it is also higher than Croatia, etc. If we don't want to introduce these differentiated rates, then it would be good to keep the tax on promises and that VAT, I don't know, shrinks as it was then promised to 20% or 18% so we can see which government will correct it afterwards. Although in Germany VAT from 16% a year ago was raised to 19%. In the last election year, though, I think it should also be introduced as a rule. No government should play with taxes without collecting a two-thirds majority because we'll all agree on one, one percent of VAT, 1.7 billion kuna, 2% is 3.4 billion kuna and so on, and that's clearly a huge deficit or surplus. But something else would be even more necessary than to lower VAT, which is to decentralisation Croatia. The state is kind of playing Santa now. Share money with this category or that category. I didn't say you didn't have to go that way with that money. Understandably, however, he will not bypass his sympathisers, but he is in decentralisation. Which the state simply has to give to someone. The state has to take less from me. It should be that with your own on your own you can manage by your own. And finally what's most important today for the survival of the state, under quotes, is this export and it's an external debt. Foreign debt currently reaches EUR 28.9 billion. By the end of the year, it will be EUR 32 billion. That's over or over 40 billion dollars. I repeat three times in three weeks. This year alone, Croatia must repay or subscribe to its lenders EUR 7.8 billion. That's 20% of gross social product. It doesn't matter if it's the state now, whether it's banks, whether it's enterprises. One hundred percent should now stand behind the governor of the Croatian National Bank, Mr. Rohatinski, Rohatinski, who is trying in some way to detimise the growth of these loans in business banks above 12%. Dear gentlemen, we simply need to understand that in the next 5 years, counting on this 2007 when we need to repay EUR 7.8 billion in loans, Croatia will need to repay more than EUR 30 billion. In 5 years, the Croatian external debt will be at least EUR 45 billion if we move along this dynamic. It'll be somewhere between $65 billion and 70 billion. And the question is, will that be possible in five years? I'm afraid not. Why? Because there is simply little to be produced in Croatia. Let's look at the trade deficit. In 2006, exports were $10.5 billion. Imports were 21 points, say $5 billion. We're running out of $11 billion. Or in 2004, the coverage of exports was 48.7%. 2005. 47.3%, 2006. 47.2%, 2007. 46%. In Istria, without tourism only Pula with 70,000 inhabitants has more exports than Primorje-Goranska with 310,000 inhabitants. That's not normal either. But this year it is interesting, January, may export Croatian goods reach 25.7 billion kuna. And import 55.9 billion kuna. And now there's a question of what's left of our export offensive. It is not that we have capitulated, but Croatia has a problem. We just don't work, we don't produce goods for export, and that's because Rohatinski does. It is not because it has something against the citizens or the economy but because it knows that Croatian exports at this time are $10 billion, that Croatia is in debt for around EUR 5 billion on an annual basis, we are selling assets for a billion to two billion. Now we're blocked, blocked because of the fund. Croatia in tourism makes seven billion dollars, though I doubt it. Croatia is receiving another EUR 1 billion from transport, which will say that foreign direct investments are somewhere around EUR 3 billion and that is the EUR 25 billion per year. On the other hand, we're importing 21 billion dollars in goods. This year will certainly be 24 billion. We're paying loans of EUR 7.8 billion or $10.5 billion, and that's kind of synchronising at this point, but the question is, how far? And as far as we're going to do it, we're not going to see anything on the other hand. We don't want LNG, we don't want roads, we don't want hotels... We won't do anything, we want to live well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, everyone has a right to do that, but how? And then the question arises as to how far that redistribution between one end of this country and the other. It is simply necessary to start working and I claim that everyone in this country can live decently. I said once again, we're a strange country. We broke out of the war. We've had a war for four years. It was estranged through the conversion and privatisation of what wasn't destroyed. There's a pensioner who's got one worker coming in and he's kind of leaving us. But the question is, how long will it go, and I'm afraid at some point it's just going to be in that movie and "Gods will fall on the subject." Just to say external debt in 2003 was 75.5% of gross social product. 2006. 84.7% of gross social product. In 2007, it'll be at least 88, maybe 89%. And that's why you should put your heads together. It's not supposed to be shared, but it kind of connects what's best at a given moment to do something with the money that's received to start and create something. What needs to be done safely is to equalize these old pensioners because in Croatia still when we talk about pensions 60 thousand people receive a pension of up to 500 kuna. 116 thousand between 500 and 1,000 kuna. 156 thousand people receive a pension between 1000 and 1500 kuna, and about 300 thousand between 1500 and 2000 kuna. And now what else might you say? Health care, so these billions of HRK 200 million will certainly not cure Croatian healthcare, plus those 500. We should stop water leaks until the masters leave. Health care must be a huge problem with shipbuilding. This is how I think it's hard to solve because this year's drug budget is 2.3 billion kuna. A month for medicines, the Croatian Institute needs 250 million kuna, and last year 3.2 billion kuna was spent on medicines. And there it is now you see the difference itself. But there is no way around the fact that the finance minister didn't have mercy by seizing that kind of money for health care. Health revenues are annual incomes – such as contributions, fees, supplementary insurance, conventions with other countries 17.8 billion while the health budget for this year is 16.8 billion. In addition, it is a legal obligation to finance the treatment of unemployed farmers and other social categories from the state budget with 2 billion kuna. So health care got even less than it really belongs to. Unfortunately, there's nothing extra involved in the fight against drugs. In the last two months, eight people have been killed since this dose in Rijeka. In Istria during this year, two people. This is certainly one of the biggest Croatian problems, and therefore, in this rebalancing process, I do not know 30 or 50 million kunas and for testing children on drugs. And for the end, maybe two more sentences about “Lance. ” Lenac should certainly be saved even though Croatia's shipbuilding remains in worse shape, and I fear it will simply not be possible without the hand being dragged into the state budget, and I agree with all those who claim that it is no longer a political issue, but an existential and first-class economic issue. Finally, Minister Shuker must be lucky to be able to share out of the budget. That's good, but it might be better if the money was left to the citizens through smaller VAT and through faster decentralisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92713	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92714	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I am correcting my colleague Cain's guilty of playing Santa Claus. I don't know how he imagines Santa Clauses and presents, but this country, or government, if we're watching this rebalancing invests in school, invests in health care. Then, very successfully, he also negotiates with the pensioners, and I think the biggest problem with our opposition is that the government successfully negotiates and signs agreements with the unions because that's what definitely doesn't support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92715	Second correction by the honourable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92716	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Cain was probably confused when he incorrectly stated that money should be stopped in health care and that this is the Minister of Finance's mercy. If you followed up on the medical records, you'd see the next one. The total general hospital obligations were for the first time reduced by 11% during 2006. The total obligations of clinical hospitals are for the first time a decrease of -13% in 2006. I'll talk about it more extensively in an individual debate. It is the first time that the hospital system is financially under control and there is no unnecessary expenditure, and all this time the percentage of services performed is increasing. So it's a rationalization that's been carried out. And another information that is also incorrect that health care is falling into new HZZO debts after this for the first time in its history will be without fellow Cain's dues.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92717	Thank you. And the next correction, the esteemed representative, Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92718	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Cain also listed those data on the cost-and-money leaks in the health care department. I would remind him that in 2004, we inherited a trend in health costs of 24%, that it was reduced to 5 to 6%, that the rationalization with the drug list stopped the trend and the consumption of medicines and that, in fact, in a few years back, virtually made the commitments more or less stable to one billion and six.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92719	Thank you. The HDZ representative club is a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92720	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, vice presidents, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club, of course, supports this amending budget and suggests that, with the note that the very convenient time of adoption of this rebalancing because last week we discussed macroeconomic developments, the report on the budget calculation for the past year, on the CNB's report is also macroeconomic fiscal and monetary policy and the HBOR report and other institutions that clearly point to positive trends in the country's macro-economic environment. This is the basis for why today and at this convenient time we approach this rebalancing. Of course, we are aware that any debate on the budget in any sense or amending the budget is causing the curiosity and attention of all those who expect their own, at their own or personal assessment of high expectations of such changes in the budget. Of course, the budget must take care of the environment, but also the stability within the state finances. Therefore, we are starting from the real assumptions of the macro-economic environment in the world, the macro-economic environment in the country, the assessment by the end of the year because it is a mid-term for now and the clear goals we want to achieve on that expenditure side. In preparation for this debate, I examined a little bit, and I reviewed this last week's report and the budget preparation, the adoption of the 2005 budget, because then we also came up with guidelines for 2006 and 2007, and we clearly set and detected certain goals that we wanted to achieve, and now that it is being monitored in correlation, and then we were accused of being unrealistic, that it is pre-election, that it is untransparent that it is etc. and today I'm going to show through these indicators exactly the opposite and actually achieving exactly those goals that were set for 2006 and now for 2007. Here, I come first from the macro-economic environment of a positive and negative impact on our movements from the world. First, the positive impact we appreciate that from Europe and the world will come to our economy is a significant recovery of the German economy. As she is Croatia's main foreign trade partner, and the largest number of tourists come from this area absolutely rightly we expect this resuscitation of the effect of the positive on Croatia's economy. Other effects that can be positive include reviving certain economies of smaller countries, but there is a double risk of oil exporters to increase prices and the impact of oil prices and quantities. They also have a positive impact on the foreign demand for goods from Croatia and services from Croatia. But on the other hand, clearly, that's what affects the input of oil and oil derivatives and the price of steel. These are two reasons which can be influenced by mild negative influences from the world and politically, of course, if IRON or any other political risks are excluded then this stability of the external macro-economic environment is secure. A macro-economic environment within the Croatian state. So far, we have shown that all intra-state movements have positive trends, and within that we believe that these objectives that are now being set here can clearly be achieved through those budget calculations from last week I say a brief correlation of the current movement on the macroeconomic plan within the Croatian state. But inside, I would like to return briefly and point out in particular those guidelines from 2005 that we have adopted and established for 2007. Then a clear goal or desire was established in that time, which was then determined by some in the complaint criticised as unreal and unreal, now here it is shown that it is quite possible and that it is realistic. Why? At the time, the state was the main investor primarily in the infrastructure, and in order to be an investor, it had to be in debt. The main consumption also moved through the consumption of the population credited or financed by a strong banking expansion. These two elements or development generators as unstable, insecure we wanted to replace stable and secure generators and allocate or reroute development instruments, i.e. developmentists so that the state was not primarily the largest debtor abroad but that the wheel development and the task took over second and is now in the first place a group of so-called. Other, which is the economy, the obligation was directly any import machinery and equipment and they remained, which is through a part of the population that has fewer opportunities, but has the possibility of being in charge of the ino. So, first they come to second place, the banks come to second place. Banks continue to generate one piece, and we have seen monetary measures and previous ones, the day before yesterday it seems to me that the CNB also responds to the bank's behaviour within it and so far the bank is still running second place with a clear objective of lending and continuing expansion. The state of the sea and we do not agree with those who advocate the liberalisation of the capital of the market in the Croatian market. That's why it is a national bank to take care of and protect national interests. Therefore, we strongly support limited activities so that these measures and measures of reducing the consumption of countries came to third place with a significant reduction in debt compared to the previous year. These are positive trends and rerouting in the external environment. On the inside, we wanted the state as the main institution of investment and development to take over the first place stable private capital generators. At this point, private capital with 60 and 5.6 percent is already becoming the strongest, strongest development generator and development bearer in the Croatian state, and thus stability of budget filling, i.e. social gross product. Through this significant measure in this year as well as in the previous year, and in this year they also have investments in capital. Investments in capital are also out of state and expansion and freedom of the capital market in Croatia already occur as often in the first place, and sometimes in second place as the main generator of development and the new industry in fact, and the capital market industry is a substitute for many other industries. Further in these indicators, or guidelines, we also highlight further fiscal consolidation, which is clearly indicated through the GDP reduction with all other measures taken in this time. And briefly recapitulated in terms of time, I want to repeat several basic indicators on which we base the assessment that this budget rebalance is real and will be realized by the end of the year. This is primarily the increase in gross social product in this time we have and in the data available approximately with the measures of May seems to me, the latest estimates. It moves between 6 and 7, we appreciate that it is realistic to expect that oscillation, i.e. seasonal impact in filling, i.e. the formation of a gross social product in the first quarter is the lowest, then growing in the second and third quarter to stabilize it at the end of the year, and now based on the first quarter and part of the growth in the second quarter, so when it should be lower, and in the next expected time much larger because we consider it a real index that is possible to achieve. The largest real growth of 11.2 in the first quarter was recorded from investment in capital. I've been commenting on that for a while. Therefore, investment in capital with 11.2 is an extremely significant place as a powerful generator for our economy's development. Then other macroeconomic indicators such as industrial production, construction, retail trade and tourism, we will see shortly after how much time it allows, acquired by certain groups that are going on inside. Industrial production in the first five months is even at 8.1%, which is extremely strong growth, and by the estimate of then the projection was somewhere planned to me it seems 6.9. Therefore, a significant positive deviation is also here. While the first four months have seen an increase in construction jobs of 5.5 and we point out that for the first time, it is allocated from that part of investment in infrastructure and the role of the state, and is located on the private capital sector, which is residential and other construction that has a significant impact on the increase. Then the increase in trade to a small 7.5%, and significant in the previous year and here the most significant increase in this group were cars, oil, oil derivatives and other consumption. Probably multiplicated, it also affects the quantity, but it affects both the prices of both sectors that are imported. Here's the increase in tourism. If it's 13.9 and 8.5% in the coming nights, then it's the first five months, the season is just coming, we think it's realistic that such an effect, but now we think that the issue of the methodology of what it considers to be a gross foreign exchange inflow, which is the effect that will be achieved but in any case positive that will regulate and maximum impact on the reduction of external trade debt through the export of goods. Because it is clear that the export of goods is filled with the export of services or the realisation of services in all sectors. Here are the basic indicators on which we base particularly this economic growth and recovery clearly shows that this year is planned, and in five months we already have a significant increase, i.e. a decline in unemployment and employment growth in this year even for now about 20 thousand people, which clearly points to economic activity already continuously every month. There are no extreme seasonal influences that were characteristic of the previous period. In our view, the effects of good revenue collection so far, which means the efficiency of the state, and here, the state finances and this real growth in the economy sector are the two foundations on which we base an assessment of the security of the growth of gross social product and stability and economic developments in this year. There is no need to make incomes because they are all written here, and it is a short time, but in the expenditure between actually income and expenditure I want to interpolate monetary measures very briefly. I have said briefly the ones that have been taken, but also the others that are being followed, we often say that the population or state, some say that to the throat. But look at the wonders and the population growing deposits, growing deposits. So far, a total of around 130 billion kuna from the population is in bank deposits, which is one of the main generators of these banks' functioning, along with that debt and the rest of the total deposit. In the last year, only the population passed about 30 billion kuna, which clearly indicates when it was combined that the debt was then distributed differently within the population. Indicators show for now that we are somewhere on average a duty when it comes to the population, but in any case, the population has to take into account in which sector and for which purposes, whether it is consumption or investment to borrow and thus potentially also affect the reduction of external debt when it comes to debt transfer, the transfer of capital of banks. On the expenditure, we point out that further investments are significant measures for further investment in the even development of Croatia. We clearly show this with a few data that will follow, knowledge and science because earlier in the beginning of the year we remember commenting that there is no means to develop, there is no, neglecting certain regions etc. This indicates that there is still a harmonisation of how much this budget allows. Greater exposure to the support system, this is a significant one of the spending allocations in consumption when it comes to incentives and support for the economy to take over that stable development wheel. And here's another indicator that clearly indicates that this rebalance directs most of the means to stimulate and develop, which means further stability of development. Socially just society, we're pointing that out all the time, and that's clear for both the defenders and the pensioners and the rest of the population, and I want to point out now at the end, before I apologize for that digression, I said it was a sick health care. Excuse me one more time. But when I said that then I thought that in years the Croatian state always had problems with the state, financial situation in health. Of course I meant the financial situation, not the other because we have extraordinary experts and it's unnecessary to talk about it. But health care is characteristic that these measures will now, for the first time, lead with, say, zero or settle all obligations. What's gonna happen later. Of course, there are certain measures that will follow us to restructure the rest of the economy that is owned by the state, because we all agree that the state is not a good master, we have to redeploy, and in this part of the health restructuring, or the state service that follows, significant funds have been allocated as the prime minister pointed out for the settlement of commitments that were due from earlier collective agreements that I love to say, and collective agreements were not respected. If the state didn't respect them, then who was obliged to respect them. Therefore, the state has for the first time respected collective agreements both earlier and present. In revenue and expenditure, this diagram shows clearly in which, between 2005, in the second part of the year, expenditure exceeds the first income, and this trend suggests a shift towards data that will continue to take place. So, we believe through all this data that further fiscal consolidation will take place, accelerate the capital market, and thus support the overall development of the state and that harmonised monetary and fiscal policy measures will absolutely ensure external stability so that the state is not threatened in any segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92721	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Vesna Škara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92722	I'm correcting two incorrect allegations of an esteemed representative. He said according to the 2005-2007 guidelines, all intrastate movements have positive trends. It's a completely incorrect quote, and I'm only going to make some trends. According to the report, the number of insolvency companies, according to the 2005 FINA official report, was 21 thousand, 2007. Twenty-three thousand. The outstanding payment orders in 2006 were €11.2 billion, 2007. 12.6 billion kuna. The blocked craftsmen in 2006 were 35 thousand 700, 2007. 39 grand, 200. We are not talking about an external debt that was 21.5 billion euros in August 2004, and 29 billion euros in December. A second correction to an incorrect quote. Well, your Honor, you've mentioned investment in capital at least 13 times. What's that? You, as chairman of the Privatisation Fund's Supervisory Board, who has not met once, should still know that it is pure tautology, and you have become an expert in investment in capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92723	For the club of representatives of the CNS, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92724	Mr. President, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Of course it's not bad when 5 billion kunas appear in the state budget, especially since two-thirds of these are tax revenues. Of course, the question remains why it is not more precisely planned. However, this is not a small deviation, it is a 5% deviation from the budget, but it is not bad when such an item appears in the budget, but there is always a question of how to behave and what to do with such items in the budget. What did the Government of the Republic of Croatia do by proposing to the Croatian Parliament this Budget? It mainly carried out some of the obligations previously recorded in various collective agreements, documents, some of the debts that existed, and this is primarily the debt of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which bears more than one third of the total increase in the budget and almost half of the cost side of the budget increase, and then these are, of course, the costs incurred earlier by some collective contracts such as the increase in salaries for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, then the increases in the items of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the increase in salaries in the Ministry of Interior and assistance within the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and these 5 items are essentially borne by the majority, 90% of this Budget. Therefore, this is a rebalance of the budget which can be marked as a rebalancing of the recovery, recovery, first of all, of what was in the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Consumer Rebalancing. Here, in this rebalancing there is no room to argue that it is a rebalancing of development or perspective. I'll try to prove it by what I'm going to say below. When it comes to this great debt of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, it is therefore a billion and 200 million kunas and 500 million kunas for the regular functioning of so a total of billions and 700 million kunas, it is good that there has finally been such a balancing of our views. We have constantly warned here about the large debt of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. Newspapers have confirmed it, but never decided by the government, the finance minister has not been granted that this debt exists so largely. This budget rebalance at the very least recognised that there is a part of the debt, i.e. the problematic financial situation of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance worth billions and 200 million kuna, although it is known that the total debt of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance or the health system of the Republic of Croatia is 5.5 billion kuna. This is certainly a good thing to try to get rid of it, to try to reduce the most difficult forms of debt. But we'll see what happens in a few months, if it'll be enough to get that huge hole in our health care system patched up. Today's radio reports, therefore, speak of a debt of about 5.5 billion kuna, so I would like, of course, by the Minister of Finance or perhaps colleagues who think they know more about it than they do that they're denying me. As for the overall budget orientation, I repeat. It's a budget of consumption and recovery but there's no saying it could be a budget of development and perspective. And I'm going to try to show it on a few examples. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development this year has the same budget as it had last year. With this budget rebalance, the income ratios with the credit opportunities available to that bank are falling. It's not a big drop, but if something needs to grow he needs to grow credit potentials in order to develop the economy. And likewise, the Fund for Development and Employment, which did not particularly grow during this year's budget, is falling during this rebalancing. And then, of course, in some fundamental indicators of our economic development, the situation is what it is. In the first five months, according to data from the State Statistics Office, export coverage is at least during the entire term of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's only 46%. Otherwise it's all about 46, 47, 48, so it's about stagnation. But according to the State Statistics Office report for the right five months this year, export coverage is the smallest in the entire term of the government. And of course that's the strongest, most credible indicator of economic activity and the development of a country. It is said, and that is what the Prime Minister said in his opening statement that the polling rate will be reduced, but the government's results over the past four years are saying that the government had no solution in this regard. A total reduction in unemployment if these seasonal oscillations are not counted on which the government is often known to represent a major reduction is only 30,000 people. And for more than 20,000 people, there was an increase in the pensioners of Croatian wartime wartime disabled people. So that's almost two equal numbers. These people were either unemployed, and then their retirement reduced the unemployment rate or they were unemployed, so they opened up a space for the employment of others. Thus, these two figures cancel out de facto each other and there is no talk of a major increase in unemployment. And it is really strange then that in the next term of office that the Prime Minister spoke of the poll rate will be reduced from 10.2, 10.3 to 7%, which would actually mean a reduction of about a third of the unemployed, which would therefore be the new 100,000 jobs. The government has failed to achieve this in its current mandate. This rebalancing is too late to move anything in that sense. But also the items of the Development and Employment Fund and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development are not only stagnating these years but falling in this budget. I would also like to say something about major announcements about increasing the knowledge and excellence budget. It should be repeated again here that the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports with 290 million kuna and 2,78% growth is growing again slower than it has been so far compared to the entire budget that is growing 3.97%. So again, the effect is that the share of science and education is reduced in total state costs rather than increasing, not saying that these 290 million kunas are mostly spent on wages. On low wages, that's justified. But if these 290 million kunas are spent mostly on wages, then there's no talking about raising a pedagogical or educational standard. There's talk of introducing a high school for everyone. It's about 80 million kunas for textbook expenses in first grade high school, and it's known to be just a drop in the sea. If we want to have 20% more students in our high schools then to preserve the same educational standard we have to have 20% more classroom space and 20% more teachers. And it's a very demanding and very complicated and very expensive job. Thus, to say that with 80 million kuna free textbooks for the first grade of high school, which, of course, should be welcomed to say that anything is done in this sense is almost illusory. Because this shift, this preparation for the introduction of therefore compulsory high school in the Republic of Croatia is truly minor and does not deserve millions to be spent on the advertising campaign in the "Medium School for All", for the jumbo posters, for big news ads, when nothing else, besides those 80 million kunas, and drops in the sea so far has not been done, and this budget does not predict it. Finally, one important thing that we are particularly sensitive to, because the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament proposed on the proposal were adopted on the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party, which is the cost, these are the conclusions that the Government of the Republic of Croatia commits to very wide procedures for preparing for the introduction of a protected eco-fishing belt which, as you know, should take effect on 1 January of next year. The government formally held the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament and it refers to this conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, but when you look at what is actually done, what are real investments, to what extent it means to train this state to implement such a demanding decision then you see that it is mere symbolism. It is therefore almost all the items in our conclusion to the Assembly which was proposed by the Croatian Representatives' Club have been indicated, the government has done something. But somewhere, as in the Ministry of Economy, for example, it has simply reduced one other item, a regular small shipbuilding item by 42 million kuna, in order to increase this new item on the basis of this item by 23.5 million kuna, which is de facto in that position of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship to reduce state investment in terms of the construction and modernisation of the fishing fleet. Of course, this is not an opportunity, but we should also talk about what's going on with diplomatic preparation for the introduction of a protected eco-fishing belt. We know how we stand with our neighbors in that sense. That's not what you're talking about. I'm afraid there will be speeches about this once the decision, the decision of the Croatian Parliament, is made before the implementation. I don't even know anything in public about what diplomatic preparation is like to introduce that belt and we know that in this sense there are two of our most important neighbours in Slovenia and Italy. Equally, it's not clear what's going on with organizational preparation, what's going on with the Coast Guard. The Coast Guard Act has been rejected but what internal reorganisations are conducted, what are the relations of all institutions, the Ministry of Defence, internal affairs, customs that should be involved in this, we really don't know anything about it. No decision in this sense, as far as I know, has been made by the Government but is increasingly functioning as it has been so far so that the Croatian Navy only turns one part of its part into a coast guard without actually knowing what is the position of that part of the Navy within the Ministry of Defence and what is the relationship of that part of the Navy to the other segments of the state administration that should ensure the protection of our coastal space. Therefore, this organisational preparation has not been carried out, and according to what is stated here in the budget rebalancing as a strict decision of the Croatian Parliament, with a total increase of around 80 million kuna, there is no speech to make a more serious shift. The restoration of the fishing fleet, the design of it as it suits us and does not suit the Italians and Slovenians in the European Union there will be no discrimination. Everything we decide will have to be left to others in the same way. That is why we now have to make a decision about what our fishing fleet will be and it must be sufficiently numerous to oppose possibly such and similar fishing fleets of Italy and Slovenia. With 80 million kuna, there's no talking about it. Equally, the issue and the ship was at the Ministry of Defence was the Ministry of the Interior that would guard our protected ecological fishing belt, and therefore with 20 million kunas being talked about only some projects, ideas, more serious work, impact on the creation of organisational and material conditions for the protection of our protected eco-fishing belt, unfortunately there can be no speech here. Here, these are the reasons Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues why the club of HNS representatives will not support this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92725	Thank you. We have a series of corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is a respected representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92726	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague said it was incorrect that this government could not predict a 5% revenue increase. And he didn't say the government couldn't predict because Minister Schucker is still digging up debts from the previous government that no one can predict. Let's just say, three billion kunas of debt to disrespect a collective contract. Second, it's incorrect that it's a health debt as a colleague of the 5.5 billion kuna says. The inherited debt was 7 billion 300 million, today's debt is 3 billion, and this will bring it down to liquid health systems because HZZO will have no commitments and hospitals will have about a billion kunas of liabilities that are in a sharp reduction of 11 to 13% per year and total liabilities. And finally, it's not true that for ZERP it's 80 million, for ZERP it's 114 million and it's precisely defined what it's going to be. This includes incentives for the construction of fishing boats and coast guard, and fishing ports, and fishing majors. So everything is exactly defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92727	Second correction by the respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92728	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, MP Radoš said this budget rebalance for 2007 is not a rebalancing of development and perspective. That's not true at all, and that main budget for 2007 was the development and perspective budget, and that's all you need to see. And the rebalancing of this one is even stronger and potent. The best example of this is investment in regional development, which is a rebalancing process, an additional 135 million kuna is provided. Additional allocations to education and science and we know that knowledge and education gives perspective and affects the development of additional funds 291 million, support in agriculture additional 243.8 million kuna. It is only one part of direct investment in development, therefore it is not your claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92729	Third correction by the respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92730	A colleague, Rados, claimed that this government had no way of reducing unemployment. I would correct my colleague Rados and stand still in the defence of the government at least partly because the government has found as much a way to reduce unemployment at least in terms of employment in the state sector, i.e. in the state administration, so it is during this power here is whose mandate stands out about 10,000 new people that in the state administration that in certain state-owned enterprises, the truth is many and beyond the competitions that we now see from HEP and past the Law on the Championship of Defence Rights. It costs taxpayers a billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92731	The fourth correction by the respected representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92732	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, MP Rados said in his debate that 15 thousand more defenders were retired from the mandate of the last government and that today the government is showing this as a reduction in unemployment. Dear Radoš, I will remind you but also the entire Croatian public, but also all the defenders, that these 15 thousand defenders are the very people you were in power when you introduced the Institute of Translation and on this basis you were spinning around without respecting their rights. People who were sick, people who were wounded, disabled already 50 and 60% who weren't able to work. You still, you still out of your ranks still don't get to insult and you disrespect Croatian defenders. [[Thank you very much. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.]] Like the other day, your colleague Kurt. Excuse me. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92733	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92734	Please. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92735	So Mrs. Solic did not correct my incorrect quote. I said, I didn't say anything about how there was an increase. I didn't grade it, even if it's realistic. It's more than 20 grand, not 15 grand, but I said it's an automatic mathematical reduction in unemployment, that it's a false reduction. So you haven't corrected any of my incorrect allegations, and on the political qualifications of what you said, I don't think there's any need to speak. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92736	Here you are, MP Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92737	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, Rados, who says right at the beginning of his exposure that this rebalancing is nothing more than a government that meets the debts previously recorded in collective agreements with him. Well, as far as I know, this government is doing all of the collective contracts it signed to the general satisfaction, so there's no problem. In addition to this, it is additionally invested in education, and it is additionally invested in health care. So there are a lot of additional investments, however, it is interesting that fellow Rados forgot to say that, according to collective agreements that his government did not respect for the payment of Christmas cards, the regression of public servants, tenants, shift work in primary and secondary schools, overtime and night work, this government is doing in 4 years for now about a billion and a half, a billion and a half kuna must pay. So we're wondering what this government with billions and a half of kuna funds could do to make sure it doesn't actually have to pay your sins there.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92738	Dear Representative Vlado Jelkovac, the next amendment. There are no corrections to the corrections. Here you go, Mr. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92739	... The incredible amount of energy Mr. Rados is trying to prove the failures of this government, although it is very different from the data. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] [[Intruder: Intruder.]] I would have corrected two allegations. His first allegation to correct is that there is no speech about a reduction in unemployment when the figures show absolutely the opposite. So for the same period compared to last year, 20,000 unemployed are less than 6.4%. The unemployment rate from 11.2 dropped to 10.5. And the second part says it's not about the rebalancing of development and perspective. In addition to what you really are the rebalancing of the recovery but the recovery of your obligations that you failed to fulfil in the previous period, these data on investment in equal and regional development, in the separation of education and science. Education or investment for support in agriculture shows that this is a strong budget of rebalancing development and perspective. The next amendment is the honourable representative of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92740	The next amendment is the honourable representative of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92741	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague Rados commenting on the unemployment rate in the way he commented also raises questions about the results achieved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia during this term of office. He claimed that it was only a result because a number of people retired. It's just not true. If we compare the active working population and the total employees in the last few years, we can get to the next data. Yes, in the 4th month of this year, the total number of employees was a million and 470,000, with a million and 392 thousand in 2003. In other words, the difference is almost 80,000 only when we compare April and 2003. Also when it comes to unemployment rates, according to the State Statistics Institute, this unemployment was 22.3% in 2002 and 2003 respectively. 19.2%. And today it stands at 15.9% while the unemployment rate at 4 months was 10.6%. It is therefore almost 85,90,000 new jobs without effects that will take place during this tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92742	The next correction by the esteemed representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92743	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to correct two allegations from my colleagues. First, 80 million kuna is a drop in the sea and that this one, and second, that this government has done nothing in the education system. I think a colleague should apologize to parents who need to buy books in the first grade and who represent a significant part of their, uh, spending their home budget. And if this government hadn't done anything wrong. Compared to his government, the government has increased 33.7% in the education system. She employed over 3,000 people in the education system. For science, it allocated 290 million kuna and one billion kuna to pay off overtime that they did not pay off.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92744	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92745	Mr. President, Mrs. Caparin has injured Article 209. The Rules of Procedure, because it reported a correction of the incorrect assumption and did not correct the incorrect assumption. First of all, I didn't say that in terms of education, those free textbooks are nothing. Rather, it is a symbolic shift and that it cannot be talked about even more serious preparation of such a large project as the introduction of a high school, and just as it was done by colleagues Jelkovac and his colleague Bitunjac. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92746	And a respected representative, representative of Ruža Lelic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92747	A colleague said that this rebalance was not developed but that it was just a collection of debts from a collective contract. It is true that the government had to pay over a billion and a half kuna for debts incurred in the previous term in a collective contract such as Christmases, resurrections and overtime. But the rebalancing is highly developed. Here, I'll just take some items. Investment in regional development of more than 134 million kunas. Then invest in the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports 290 million. Isn't that an investment in development? Also investing in agriculture, more than 244 million, it's quite an investment in development. Then no debt was recognised in health care. There was no recognizable debt. As it is now said to be five-and-a-half billion, and here we've heard from one that certainly knows Professor Hebrang well that it is, the total liabilities are 3 billion and they have reached a billion and 200. And this is the first time that it's coming back from a debt-free, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92748	And finally, and finally the last correction, the respected representative of Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92749	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, Radosh, said one inaccuracies that the government has finally recognised the health debt. That's not true. We have data every year we know the movement of expenditure and income in health care. And they are now stabilised to move around 500 million a year between income and expenditure. I would remind you that in 2002 the difference between income and expenditure was one billion and 400. So the lack of income was a billion and 400. The current health management policy is moving at a level here last year 437 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92750	Thank you. In 10.51, it was time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. Four other clubs and 23 MPs were reported for the debate. The HSLS Club is a respected representative of Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92751	Dear Mr. President of Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present several facilities on behalf of the HSLS Club on the proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. It seems to me that Prime Minister Sanader himself, in his opening statement, mentioned in some way the Convention of his own party last week, just talking about these economic movements, and this reminded me that immediately after this Convention, many of our columnists and analysts saw that the main economic strategy of the ruling party is to try to implement socio-liberal values and create Croatia as a social and liberal state. And if that's the case, then we liberals would have to be very happy, because there's nothing better to be happy about when exactly the world's values that we stand for, that are in our programs. This means that our society is truly socially sensitive, that the principle of solidarity is one of the more dominant principles, and also that these liberal values are promoted in an economy that will actually make Croatia uncontestably responsible, modern, civil, liberal and so on. But it's obviously a desire projection. Now you should see how much that happens. I would also like to remind myself of something of that past that always kind of burdens us and that in many ways determines in fact this current situation of ours today, which is that we forget so easily that it is ours, that our 1990s were burdened by war, that this war had its price, that this price is not small, that this price is about 30 billion euros somewhere, that it still generates a whole series of economic, political and in-house movements. On the other hand, there is what Letica's colleague actually thought of in one very skilled syntagm, which is our unfortunate history, which also costs us about a billion euros annually, and it does all seem to be one context in which we both have a government and in which the government also brings a certain budget with which it is trying, wants this budget to be developed, to be social and, in fact, for some time, it has almost one almost impossible ambition for me to actually say at the same time, and that it also takes account of those populations that in any way cannot monitor the rhythms that are disabled or simply say for objective or subjective reasons I cannot participate in this economic game. And I'm just saying the exact same thing if it's really a desire for the project to be socially liberal and that our society is precisely being recognized by these elements, then we're just going to be commending what should be commended, that certainly this surplus in the budget is in some way going to be very much affecting something called the labour market and that I don't know and that there are trends that go along with the fact that the number of unemployed in Croatia is falling and that there is some very recent perspective that happens to fall finally below 10%. It's at this global level and it's certainly commendable, but now what I do, which is now, in some way, to be a little lawyer of Satan, to see how it's actually not reflected equally in all our rooms. On the one hand, you do have spaces that develop normally in which this trend of unemployment is falling dramatically, but unfortunately there are spaces in Croatia that are still where the unemployment rate is about 15% to 20%. And that story about the even development of Croatia makes sense, and that just came out. So now all these efforts that are positive and all of this excess should actually work to create assumptions that where there really is a dramatic, dramatic difference between not knowing one developed Zagreb, Istria, northwestern Croatia and now there are also areas where unfortunately these benefits of good economic policy do not come so quickly. There's a need for a state to intervene. It is not for the state, or only for this to be reduced to the role of Santa Claus, so that I do not know about health care, education, defenders, that it solves the problems of collective agreements, but it has to lead to where and where one more important policy is, and that is how it can have these mechanisms that can really help those spaces in Croatia, which are precisely due to the events of the 1990s and who are unwarrantedly lag behind how to correct them. And we, since we are this representative body, and we come from these very places, we have to take care of it, we have to talk about it, and we have to insist on it in this Parliament that when it is indeed the projection of the budget and its rebalancing that it is really in the first place. I come from this very area that has really paid dearly the price of war, which is very hard to catch a rhythm with these parts that they had and thank God that it was so fortunate that indeed the worst evil did not hit them. And now we're looking right now, we're just going to have to ask, insist that what happened but now how exactly do we find this one selective approach that really will in some way re-valorize those values, the resources that these spaces have. So when it comes to corridor 5C, when it comes to gasification, I don't know eastern Croatia, when it comes to the channels of Sava – Danube – Sava. These are all actually things that indeed, that will then create those assumptions that are starting to realize this excess value that will then be invested and that will be able to serve us precisely those segments of society such as health care, education that are currently at a lower level. It is said about the society of knowledge, the society of excellence, and it is commendable that certain surpluses will be transferred towards education. But there's also no such thing as the same thing. Just a few years ago, we've been following that the results of our high school students from Osijek-Baranja County, Virovitica County, are one of the weakest in Croatia. It is indeed... so it is a trend why it is necessary to find exactly the right reasons, i.e. the right reasons why people, or the high school population in these areas, are achieving the weakest results and we are looking for and we need to look for certain solutions. It is obvious that this is indeed related to a general condition in society. It is this higher standard that actually enables better education then, that allows you to have this program plus in some places, and then normally that when you start enrolling and in colleges and actually in the beginning these children are unjustly disabled. So giving up on this pre-centralised philosophy, which in some way, which may have been 90s and had some sense, in 2007 and 2008, is actually becoming superfluous, becomes a burden, and in some ways contributes, I won't say it generates, but it contributes precisely to this unbalanced development precisely because some of these principles have to be selective and it's really possible to take these different measures into account. We really don't have the sense to say that we're really starting to punish and that this youngest population is also disabled and then they're harder to enroll in colleges, and then they're really producing a whole bunch of other negative effects than political, demographic or not knowing what. It is not natural for Zagreb to grow annually for a Vukovar. It is also not natural at all I do not know that I do not know Osijek, Rijeka or Split in any way... my surroundings and it is precisely that Croatia is not in every place, village, municipality that society is equal or equal chances. These are the real problems that are actually constantly generated precisely because we started out there in the '90s from a context that wasn't great, which was like this in ten years, here for more than a dozen years, it produces these negative students, and right there we expect from the otherwise optimistic minister that is always, it's good when our head of finance in the country is an optimist man who, like by that definition of the start, because I also disagree that nothing really happens, that nothing is moving, I think that kind of one approach that is... not good because the world would long have fallen apart that nothing really works. Well, we don't really fall apart what fellow Cain was saying, actually, when you take it all, take that context, that price of war, and the insecure, or unfortunate history and all that you've actually had, it has proved, however, that there are many things here but still the same to be honest thanks to the work of all governments, these governments have made their contribution to making certain small, but petty shifts that are somehow bringing us into this order of a country that is certainly trying to be arranged, to be responsible, and to really fit those oatmeals, standards that apply to this complex environment, European environment. I say, in that sense, the Social Liberal Party Club is trying to actually once again to see how this transfer, this surplus how to actually distribute it right where it is most needed so that we really don't repeat it, and then you actually have yourself as a boomerang coming back to you and this whole series and these political, regional some actions that are, which needlessly create these additional conflicts, and that I'm not saying that in fact this one has the question in itself why I don't know why to renovate the shipbuilding and I don't know the PIKs or if PIKs then shipbuilding then it causes even at this level and class conflicts within the same society. I think what we're looking for is not impossible, it's looking for another additional effort, one continuous simulation, projections that are about to show and show where it's most necessary then to react to just one selective approach that will realize really that some spaces in this country don't develop in the way that we would have to develop and to say we don't have this one general, it's always statistics, you know, statistically looking at we have a general positive trend, but then when we drop it down capitularly, then it can be noticed that things don't stand very well. ... Already before me, we don't think there's a need to cut funds for the fund for development and employment, I think I'm still saying this problem he seems promising at first sight, but certainly there are these areas in Croatia where this unemployment rate is really dramatic and that shows exactly that further possible tightening of all of our problems that we are living in today. [[You don't understand.]] Also, I have to say, for the end of the day, that when it's mentioned or when we have this story of apotheosis of industrialization, then I'm a little afraid you know whether industrialization will solve all of our problems. We think that history there since 917 teaches us that industrialization does not actually bring all possible solutions because they say when, because after that it always necessarily follows and reduces the growth rate and I always say it is bad to put an accent on an extensive increase, and to ignore this effective and efficient use of economic resources. When I say that, then there's always a decline, and that decline is always logical and legal, and that's economic legality and I say, and there's certainly a need to be careful, to really see how we're going to be able to distribute it in a smart way to our resources that are certainly not small. And what liberals are always repeating, which is that it's high time for Mr. Minister, to make a final one, a register of our assets, I think also that we don't really know at this very moment in 2007, with which we're disposing all of this property, and if we were to use this property wisely as good masters then these reforms that we need and in the judiciary, in health care, social welfare, could be found beyond this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92752	Thank you. There's no correction to incorrect allegations. For the club of representatives of the HSS, respected representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92753	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I enjoy seeing the Minister here in the Parliament sitting in a carefree manner and not even a proverbial polemic, and the reason I see it is in a good rebalancing which has been increased by 5 billion and he is absolutely certain that it will do so because one third of the budget will be achieved through VAT, and more than 50% of that VAT will be charged at the border, so as soon as the goods come to Croatia, the third day is on his jury account and that is why he would be worried. And I especially don't think he's worried because he probably happened to be able to catch a goldfish who, as the story goes, has fulfilled three wishes. I think one wish was to reduce the budget deficit so that we like Europe more that way. I'm absolutely sure the other wish was to patch up the budget gaps, and that's what you're doing right now. And the third and most important wish was to use the money for the original needs and, of course, it's written in letters and figures. So the unemployed will get 200 kuna more, some. If the craftsman happens to be unemployed, of course he won't get anything, because it doesn't belong to him, because we didn't want to change the laws. They will also receive some other small privileges, and the peasants will get several hundred kunas more on average, but who will get the most? Well, of course he'll get the most big... who usually get the most because a hundred large users of incentives in Croatia get 25% of these same incentives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we know which pockets it ends up in. Well, even state-owned workers will get a regression of several hundred thousand kunas. The kids will get the least. Of course, children don't have the right to vote, so why should they get it this time? Eventually, they might get a little more through books, payloads, those little bigger kids who go to high school, and maybe even if they're estimated to do so, they get the right to vote. Here are the three wishes that I assume he gave to the goldfish our minister, but I ask what about those who haven't caught the goldfish and have no right to fulfill their wishes? What about the new pensioners the HSS talked about 15 times here in the Parliament? I don't see them in the budget. Clearly, they were promised by someone else, not a goldfish that their desires would come true by 15.7., that we would see the law, that we would see a solution that would correct this injustice. What about those entrepreneurs who were expecting if the budget was so phenomenally charged that at least we'd make a mini tax making, that we'd cut their contributions, that we'd help them with the deblockation of the gyro-account? What about those 30,000 unemployed people who work in companies who don't get paid? And finally being with those 270 thousand unemployed, do they have the right to expect something more to do with these budgetary measures and tools to try to act so that they don't wait for a year, two, three, but to get to it before. Of course not in the minor trends in employment that have occurred. However, what I have a question for myself, and for you, and perhaps for the minister, is there any desire for Croatian importers, do Croatian lobbyists have any wishes, do they have any wishes for Croatian monopolies? Do they have any wishes of the 200 richest families in Croatia? I don't think so. Their only desire is in fact that nothing changes and their desire is clearly achieved. Nothing will change more seriously. The minister as it is already going, I assume he kept his promise. He released a goldfish that fulfilled his wishes, of course for the benefit of all citizens, and it will float away. Most in the Parliament will adopt rebalancing and then go swimming on the sea. They start vacationing and why they're actually dealing with problems, who wants to know what the minister didn't want with the goldfish, for example. to cut our external debt from $30 billion to below or why, for example. He didn't want our export coverage to exceed 46% by import, for example. It's 56%. If we hadn't fallen in this time of year from 47 to 46. Why, for example. We haven't seen and what happens to those who invest in production, who hire, who export? Did the minister want them to get stronger support? No, I don't. There's no entrepreneurship here in budget rebalancing. He's not with a single kuna, not with a single lip. But why should we bother about entrepreneurship problems when we go to Croatia phenomenally? We have achieved a GDP growth rate for the first quarter of 7% and who cares what happens by the end of the year on average of about 5%, as always, and who cares what we need to increase GDP by 30 billion in any case more than 4%. We'll talk about it after the election. It's a theme that happens after 25.11. Most likely. Someone here mentioned that the former Yugoslavia owed $17 billion and that Croatia's debt is twice as big today. We remember those times too. Inefficiencies were covered by foreign borrowing and social peace was bought. Some times, there was a shortage of coffee and gasoline. We are fortunate in Croatia because we lack nothing. Foreign trade chains are full of imported goods, and if you have any money to buy such goods are available to you by banks, which are also foreign property, where you can borrow such goods within a few days. Eventually if you want to invest in production, raise an investment loan, then there is a longer problem and there is a much more complex procedure. Conditions of insurance for the repayment of those loans. It's a little A mortgage on the most valuable thing you've got. Can we actually accuse citizens who want a long-awaited standard, and on that occasion they are in charge of achieving it and in fact to like themselves more, to their own children, neighbors. No, I don't. Of course we can't charge them. But can we accuse under quotes a state that creates a debt dependence on foreign capital? Can we allow the same pattern of behavior? Where do we get the right to take so many credits for the vision of prosperity and development that voters like? Where do we get the right to sell out state property for the same purposes? The HSS here spoke of the government's intention to go out in September with the sale of Telecom shares. However, the same government does not think of sharing shares with citizens who bought connections for the Telekom. The minister is laughing! But let's say the same solution, the same problem existed in Slovenia. Slovenia passed a special law, gave money not only to citizens, but even to cities and municipalities that invested in the network. Well, we could think of that for example. We could study the Slovenian model and say, if the citizens are going to resuscitate this situation badly in privatisation, you've been developing this Telekom, you've got some rights. So instead of paying the shares, why couldn't you have them? Or possibly some investment fee. We don't even talk about stockholders anymore. We're not talking about 500 grand of those small shareholders whose contracts are broken into a fund. No one mentions it anymore. No one remembers that anymore. Should we fill the stock funds? Yeah. Well, that's what we promised. Is that planned by the end of the year, or possibly in this budget? There's no such thing. That's not it, we forgot it. We won't even change the Privatisation Act, that's obvious. We forgot about the stockholders. The peace funds won't fill up. And it's completely safe. Can we possibly think about vouchers for those who lost shares because the famous fund forced them to pay what wasn't worth a while, so he broke their contracts? But this is obviously another fairy tale. This isn't a goldfish bank. This could be the bass. It's a fable about handcuffs and births, maybe. And that's a message to the citizens who did this to you? Who's to blame for staying hungry? Your meal was in a pot, your meal was on a plate, but you were either a fox or a stork and it just happened to you. It happened according to the same model and the entrepreneurs. I've also talked several times about how we supported them in the budget and how it goes into rebalancing here. These entrepreneurs, Mr. Minister, have received 130 million kunas all year round, and 130 million kuna is worth as much as four kilometers of fast road from Zadar to the port of Galženica. So 150 thousand small entrepreneurs and craftsmen got four kilometers of road. I'm hearing about entrepreneurship zones. Apparently there were four years ago three, so now we have three hundred. Even though it's being told in public, it might become the truth. But, Mr. Minister, you know there's a report with you that it was at the end of 2003 in 187 zones. But here in the rebalancing and in the budget for each zone, we singled out 300 thousand kuna. So what's the city or the municipality we've assigned to create and develop that zone with 300 thousand kuna? Or even more tragic. We're ahead of vacations. However, no city or municipality has received a kuna in this year from the budget for the area. Well, we're inextricably inefficient to those we expect to build, hire, develop, produce and export. So that ineffectiveness obviously results in something else. That there is no will to help them more seriously, and simply in this rebalancing budget they are neither available. Did we allow municipalities and cities to help entrepreneurship more seriously? Oh, no. Why? We've been dusting the profit tax and income tax that's been spinning through the changes in the law on the relations of several hundred million kunas. Now that we're talking about five billion kunas for municipalities and cities or for regional development, we've singled out 135 million kunas. So it is absolutely certain that the units of local self-government with money that is in the budget and rebalancing cannot implement horizontal measures not only for entrepreneurship but also for the obligations they have towards education, health and others. What we would like to see in this budget, if we saw and in this rebalancing are indications that we want and that we can prevent further privatisation. Further privatisation is for me the indirect tax we charge. I already mentioned Croatian Telekom. Obviously, there is another energy sector, etc. If we make five billion unexpected additional revenues in the budget, is it necessary to sell Telekom? Or can we make peace with the pensioners or with others from this unexpected surplus? It's not small, it's not 500 million, it's 5 billion. But what if the next finance minister doesn't catch the goldfish? Nothing. He'll just say he wasn't as lucky as the rest of us. The Uncle's moving is done talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92754	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative, Anto Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92755	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable representative, Pecek, said in a series of incorrect allegations, one that I will correct, how the minister got lucky, so he caught three goldfish who met his desire to solve the budget deficit, to patch up all the budget holes, and to create even funds for election promotion and campaign, which is incorrect. It is true that the ministry and the minister, together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, have collected these 5 billion kunas in terms of financial discipline, in terms of intervention in the gray economy, in terms of the formation of the State Treasury, with which they have also patched up budget holes, and with which it has given the possibility to develop the Republic of Croatia both throughout its territory and within the state itself through the creation of institutions in terms of both greater fiscal capacity and state to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92756	The second correction of the esteemed representative, Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92757	Thank you, Mr. President. I would correct a series of incorrect allegations from Mr. Agents one when he said that children with this budget and rebalancing don't get anything. It's just that Mr. Representative doesn't answer the truth. Children get more basics than not to list now, but it is important that they also get all categories of children, both children and children with behavioral disorders, both children and without adequate parental care and children with disabilities. And in the end, it's your irony that because they don't have the right to vote at least it's inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92758	Third correction by the esteemed representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92759	I'd also correct a colleague who said the kids didn't get anything because they don't have the right to vote, which is completely incorrect from the previous correction. But I'd just like to say that, with the increase in child's allowance, an innovative 500 kuna supplement has been introduced for the third and fourth children and the total allocations for child rebalancing have been increased by 107 million kuna. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92760	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Honored Representative Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92761	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Rules of Procedure of Article 209 relating to 214 have been injured. Well, look, you let your colleagues say what I didn't say. I'll quote what I said. ... Comrade Hebrang, be patient, so you're up soon. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't say the kids wouldn't get anything. I said the kids will get a little bit, they don't have the right to vote. So you're letting them correct what I didn't say. And I said it. ... And that's right, that's quite true. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And fellow Members, you're correcting what you might have noticed that I said in the right way because this doesn't make sense to correct what I didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92762	The Honorable Representative, Plasimir Sabati, is the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92763	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister. I'd like to correct the sentence that the president of the HSS Club said we won't change the Privatisation Act. I suppose that was said in the sense that we here in the Parliament, but I would like to correct that incorrect assumption because it is not correct. In the HSS, we want to change the Privatisation Act, even of course, we have proposed a conclusion that obliges the government to prepare a new law, although we in the HSS have this proposal and we certainly want to restructure the fund in the agency, ban further privatisation and the agency itself should deal with management and... So it's not that we don't want to, we at HSS want to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know the president of my club said total in the Parliament, but we at the HSS want to change the Privatization Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92764	I know, only where the laws change. They don't change the laws of the club, they change in the Parliament. Honorable representative Andri Hebrang, next correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92765	Thank you very much. My colleague, Pacek, incorrectly cited it, and I don't know by which time it was inherited 187 entrepreneurial zones. Only five of them were fully operational. Today he's in full function 150 and the new 150 is in construction. Second, he incorrectly said that there was little incentive for a small economy. Comrade Pecek, you should be able to read this budget, and then you will see, for example, on page 332. The Regional Development Fund, paragraph 116 plus the new 80 million kuna for small entrepreneurship. In item 1348 plus 50 million for small economy infrastructure, on page 96, the Ministry of Economy plus 197 million of which for entrepreneurship plus 29 million for small economy incentives. Look at the items for marketing in small entrepreneurship, look at the other items and you will see that only in this rebalancing was added for small entrepreneurship, added for this year more than you financed small entrepreneurship throughout the term.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92766	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Honored Representative Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92767	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, this is awesome. In the absence of arguments, we use lies. Mr. Hebrang, let's make a deal. I will take you to the table of zones that were in office in 2002 and 2003, and we will take pictures together in these zones hugged to stop telling the truth once in this House. Mr. Hebrang, it's high time you stopped telling lies through corrections in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92768	Now you've hurt the Rules of Procedure because this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92769	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92770	Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92771	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92772	Get on with it, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92773	If the kids were getting a little bit, so here's what I'd like to remind you is that leaving out for free textbooks and transportation for high schools means 80 million more and free transportation, etc. Then we must know for children's allowances that there is an increased range of children who are covered by children's extras for more than 50,000 children and that it now took 107 million for these fees without talking about the most intelligent supplement. Then he said that the state so much, from where she had the right to take so many loans. So as many times as it's been pointed out here in the country's debt debates so far that it's been reduced, I think it's about 800 million kunas but the debts of banks and private people are increasing. Also, to sell out property which isn't true. I don't know if a colleague is referring to INA shares that have had the opportunity to buy our citizens or these shares now taken by workers. It's certainly not a sale and another sale of assets as far as we know it wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92774	And respected representative Ljubica Lalić is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92775	So I'm correcting my colleague, Pacek, who said the ministry, the minister, or the government, left the new pensioners at large. My colleague Pacek, the government has not left behind new pensioners because the government has promised new pensioners that they will solve their problem, so further pensioners will live off their promises, they will feed on promises, they will dress up from promises, they will pay directors with promises just as the Homeland War defenders who have been promised to have the lowest pension of 1,000 and 700 kuna, and in fact it is quite the other way around and they did not get that right. And where those promises of water show information about alleged financial discipline, and today we have 13 billion blocked funds because of unfulfilled obligations, and truthfulness shows the fact that child benefits include 50,000 children more than 50 thousand children.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92776	So these were all incorrect allegations by Agent Pecek that you were correcting. I watched you very closely with pleasure, and I didn't notice that tile. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Honorable representative of Jure Bitunjac, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92777	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, Pecek, claimed that the government did not provide support, does not provide sufficient support when it comes to the development of the economy or economic zone. I'll just say that at the position of the Ministry of Economy the funds that are there are only initial funds. The basic infrastructure is what needs to be solved in economic areas is being resolved through public enterprises, Croatian roads, Croatian waters, Croatian electricity and local self-government units that participate in certain relationships. On the other hand, we also have the Regional Development Fund, as well as the means to promote small entrepreneurship, which all together is given by a largely clogged economic development. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92778	Representative Pecek, breach of Rules of Procedure for the Fourth time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92779	Thank you very much. And again, but I'm not surprised by that. What I didn't say is fixed. I said the government didn't give enough for the zones, not that she didn't. But look, Mr. President, you probably read Waltair. He said if a lie were repeated several times it would become true. But you can see that's exactly what his colleagues from Hebrang are trying to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92780	I remember Waltaire once saying, "I will defend your right to speak at least as much as I hate what you say." Kind of. ... You think Agent Pacek is misunderstood? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And a respected representative of the Shyma of the Wrestlers.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92781	Thank you very much. Well, I wanted to avoid this, this correction, but it's so obvious that I can't skip it. In the enthusiasm of the debate on redistribution, counterpart Pecek said literally about the positions they envisioned: "We know in which pockets the money will end". But this is about positions. And according to existing laws and rules, money will be distributed. So no one knows whose pockets. Unlike you, fellow Pecek, when before the last elections, about 800 million kunas ended up in pockets where they ended up. We're not gonna work on that model.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92782	Minister Ivan Shuker. ... Too late. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Minister. Too late. In a piece, I watched again, too late. We need a little start-up position to activate a little faster. ... Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's autocracy, I'm a autocrat now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't, don't. Here you go. Here you go. Nothing. Don't do this to me. All right, well, then we'll take care of this business completely. Here's Agent Pecek, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92783	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you hurt the Rules of Procedure because you warned me that I wasn't fast enough when I picked up the tile. It doesn't say in our Rules of Procedure that I have to be fast enough. When I lift a tile, I have a right to have a word. But you denied me the right to speak. You've denied me standard for denying Mr. Shimu who you didn't warn that I don't know how many hundreds of millions ended up in somebody's pockets. If he knows that, and he probably knows as he supervised the Privatisation Fund, so he supervised the former government and let him say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92784	Thank you very much. I'm giving you a heads-up about a serious breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Miroslav Rosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92785	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, as far as I know, the Rules of Procedure's violation of the Rules of Procedure can always be requested. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote or replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92786	It may be requested but should be requested in the manner provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92787	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament allow me to react with facts to some unargumented and similar undocumented statements for the reason that no bass is spoken in the Croatian Parliament and the state is too serious for the goldfish to grant her wishes. But a colleague is probably judging according to his period, and then he thinks it is today. If economic growth of 7% is not the basis for increased economic activity to increase revenue in the budget. If, for the first time, a reduced rate of non-income unemployment is 10%, the same is not a prerequisite for increased charge of the state budget, and if 15% of the higher revenues achieved in the first six months are not proof that this government has successfully engaged in combating the gray economy, then I don't know what facts that could support you anymore. I'm glad you said here today that you are against the government's decision, which the government proposes to raise the highest unemployment fee to 1200 kuna. It's your right and you said it. I'm glad you're also... I am also glad that you are also against paying Christmas children and workers, a regress, for the workers of the MUP to be paid unpaid pension, health care and not to be paid under the Law on Areas of Special Government Care. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder: Continue.]] Among other things... Among other things... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92788	I'm warning you don't throw it away because I'm going to punish you with a warning. ... Don't throw it away, you mustn't do it...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can't work. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A representative who, a rep who throws away, is punished by a warning. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92789	Here you go. So all of this contains this budget. All of this contains this budget and no one can say it's not true. It says on the inside, among other things, that the employees of the MUP are paid 350 million unpaid pension and health benefits that your government has not paid these people. But you didn't pay for it, and we have to pay for it today. Six years ago, you didn't pay off a regress and a gift for the kids to the employees. You haven't paid off your shift, and that's a total of a billion and 700 million, and that's all in this budget right there. Let's talk about it. We can't discuss something that isn't. We want to discuss 600 million for the restructuring of agriculture, the amendment of the HSS Club for the 2003 Budget, where is this restructured agriculture? Are we going to discuss this? It also says here in this budget the funds for agriculture increased by 240 million. You can't restructure agriculture unless you give funds to farmers. Well, it's another thing. How many things in the budget can be done with a budget of 80 billion and with a budget of 110 billion cannot be done. It is simply genius and some greater rights except for Croatian defenders, births, etc. They were not increased compared to the laws they were before. So, with 80 billion things could be done, and with 110, there's nothing you can do. And that's one thesis Mr. Pecek keeps pulling through. It's another thing. The development of entrepreneurship is not only what is given to encourage certain entrepreneurship activities. The development of entrepreneurship is the construction of highways, the development of entrepreneurship and gasification, the development of entrepreneurship and the development of water supply systems, the development of entrepreneurship, the prevention of water pollution and a number of other infrastructures of structural projects that create a prerequisite for Croatia to become interesting to foreign investors. And the highest quality of this economic growth is 7%. No matter what you say, he'll be ironing himself on this or that by the end of the year. Private sector participation in this growth, private sector participation in economic growth of 7% is 70%. In your day, the economic growth of some 4.5% was 70% of the public sector. So, it was generated by consumption from the state budget, and that can be very easy to argue with the deficit that you had in 2003. 6.3%, you've had an economic growth of 5.2%. At this point, we have a deficit of 2.6 and we will have an economic growth of at least 6% at the end of the year. It's about changing quality. That's what it says about the structural reforms that have been carried out. When we talk about privatisation, it is simply fascinating to listen to a colleague named Pecek when he says that today the Croatian state should pay Croatian citizens a share in building a telephone network. However, when 16% were sold and this HT control package in 2001 was very interesting that nobody thought about these poor Croatian citizens at the time, but sold a 16% package without any bonus. Also, the INA Privatisation Act was passed during the coalition government and there was a 25% defined process for the strategic partner, 15% as well as 7% of the employees. So does anyone have anything against what this government did not sell 15% to an individual, but has given every Croatian citizen who has the will, desire and financial means to buy shares of INA publicly at the price market that is reached both in the London and Zagreb Stock Exchange. Does anyone have anything against the fact that at the end of the nine months, we will finally give all employees of the former and current INA 7% shares? If anyone has anything against it, then let them make that clear. Let's not talk about how much the asset-sale deficit is financed, and we can make a comparison there, too. In four years, coalition authorities have financed the deficit with 15 billion of the assets sold, and this power has co-financed only from the sale of shares of INA last year and so we can pull the parallel there. The share in foreign debt has been reduced from 34% to 23%. For the first time in 2006 the share of public debt in relation to gross domestic product decreased by 2.7% and these are the exact indicators of the Croatian National Bank and the State Statistics Institute and instead of being happy, regardless of the political option that we have these positive economic developments in the Republic of Croatia, we want them in every possible and impossible way and that is what is not good. To talk about there being 13 and a half billion blocked, if 13 and a half billion blocked then these companies wouldn't be blocked but would either charge each other or the state would otherwise...... It's not 13 and a half billion blocked, but the claims that blocked each other's companies are 13 and a half billion, and it's also clearly saying that financial discipline is being introduced, and that the Company Act is not unfortunately introducing that provision that companies can be established without documenting whether the tax debt has been settled or not today would probably have been several thousand less blocked companies because it makes a debt, and you're blocking it. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] He's starting a company. He's still working. So, uh...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92790	Minister, continue!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92791	... I hear Mrs. Lalic say I'm lying. It's not me. It's Mrs. Scare.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92792	Don't pollemize, and don't throw Mrs. Representative away. Here you go. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92793	Mr. President, when my terms are granted, I'll speak. Look, these are too important indicators so I can talk if someone throws on the benches. So see whether it is in the interests of the people or not, the people will decide, and neither will you nor I. Also, a billion and 700 million to settle debt in health care. You sent a report to the World Bank of the IMF on 31 December that the outstanding claims of zero have arrived. And the outstanding claims were 800 million. See, that 800 million is also contained in these billions and two hundred. And what you are now seeing is definitely from the budget that the outstanding claims by the methodology that you've been doing have always been recorded in the deficit and as regards the deficits in this budget deficit of the central state proposed by 1.3%, the deficit of Croatian highways, roads and others outside budget funds 1% and local self-government deficit 0.3%. A total of 2.6% and here again I do not know which time I repeat that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has settled all obligations from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92794	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92795	Well, fellow Shuker, it's incorrect that I'm against getting an unemployed 200 kuna. I didn't say that. I said it's too small. I said it's a voter retrieval like for other categories when we give the villagers 100 kuna, when we give for the regresses of 100 kunas, etc. But you're phenomenally accusing the former government, so I suggest that you be the Minister of History in the next term, because you remember what was 4, 5, 6 years ago on the second decimal point, and obviously you don't remember what happened today and what happened yesterday that I was talking about. But that's not what you looked back on. By the way, I'm going to tell you a control package like you said in HT, and in any company, it's not 15%. The control package is 25 zero one percent. ... [[- Intruder Shuker, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92796	Peace, please! Second correction by the respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Both pitches, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92797	I am correcting the imprecise allegations of the minister who claimed that his colleague Pecek said what his colleague Pecek did not say, and Mr. Minister, in addition to being impertinent in telling the truth, had amnesia, so when he talks about economic growth, he forgot all that time until 2000. Mr. Minister, '99. For years, the coalition government inherited economic growth of -0.8% left you 5.2% and the position of either the starting point or the one and the other governments are really not the same. If you're left with 5.2% of what you're boasting about right now. First you do three and a half percent, and now you'll be happy if it's 5%. So your job was to keep growing, not to leave it, and you have no reason to boast about your success.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92798	Next correction, the esteemed representative of Vesna Škare Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92799	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has really said a whole set of inaccuracies and it's fascinating how he speaks false and not blinking. The foreign debt in August 2004 was 21.5 billion, and during Minister Suker it will remain recorded in history that the external debt has increased to 29 billion euros. The number of insolvency firms in the third month of 2005, all of the data of the FINA was 21 thousand insolvency companies, now it is 23 thousand insolvency companies. Therefore, in the history of this government, there will remain an extremely large number of insolvency firms that do not take this budget into account at all. The outstanding payment orders in 2006 were €11.2 billion, in 2007. 12.6 billion kuna, and the number of craftsmen is 39... /The speech room is off, so you're back online./... unfortunately you're raising dust, and your car is in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92800	Thank you very much. But the minister did not claim the number of unemployed, you comment on your claims and do not correct the allegations. ... He didn't claim what you're correcting. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You were the one who pointed out the intention of goldfish, so maybe that's what it was. SDP club, the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92801	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Let me start with one finding. Obviously, the election campaign has started, which shows the reason for this budget rebalance and the debate so far. Allow respected colleagues and colleagues I will express the satisfaction of starting to increase the growth rate, regardless of which government in the Republic of Croatia has achieved it because it is good for Croatia, but I want to warn a few things about it. This growth rate is still much lower than with comparable countries in the region where we belong. We measured with countries that entered the European Union, such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, etc. and then at the end of 2003 we had only a lower growth rate than the Czech Republic and Slovenia, and now that growth rate is less than all of them. The second thing I'd like to say is, this is the result of quarterly growth, and the question is, what is that rate going to look like by the end of this year? I wish if it were, then it's for congratulating. The third thing we would also like to point out about this problem is also one piece of information that is looking forward, which is that the unemployment rate is decreasing and that's good. But let us look at some data that are related to what is comparable and what has not appeared and what should be compared to the data in the budget explanation. The first thing to see is the fact that we have an increase in income of almost 13.9% here compared to the previous year and for the period considered, while at the same time compared to the first months according to the data of the Chamber of Commerce compared to the same months last year we have a growth rate which is three times lower or lagging the average salary in the Republic of Croatia than the rate of growth in the budget. Actually, the question is, what's going on with us? It happens to us that budget revenues are greatly increasing, in fact, by increasing taxes. If the salary is equal to or less, then an additional question arises from which sources. It is obvious that this increase is actually happening because of the constant increase in exports, then because of the constant increase in the actual deficit of the trade in goods because it is a growing and larger situation and the problem that the value of our exported goods is less than the value of imported goods. And in such a situation it is quite, and this is paid as well as on imported goods an additional value tax is paid and the question is now where the end-user's assets come from if he has an average salary lower, if the average pension is further less than what I'm going to say about something further, then an additional question arises where they come from. You see, when you look at the data on the gross debt of the Republic of Croatia, then you see one big situation that must be concerned about those who are trying to create and manage the social community, therefore not only the Government, which is that the gross debt of the Republic of Croatia is constantly growing and that in that segment it is now that the gross debt that concerns the population is now starting to grow slightly faster than the economy does. If you're looking from a narrow point of view at the Ministry of Finance, then it's a good situation to reduce debt, government debt. But when you look at the aspect of social community development, then you ask what happens if you keep growing the debt of our citizens, which is practically from part of the debt or debt that predominates in consumption, pay through increased taxes and full budget revenues. Besides, there's another big discrepancy to notice. On the one hand, citizens have an increasingly slow wage growth relative to the increase in budget growth and the increase in tax revenues, as well as the title taken from part of their debt, and on the other, you have a steady increase in income from taxes, for example, on profits, which shows that in fact one part of entrepreneurs or that you know the spreads even more sharply. There are those who make big incomes and therefore pay through profit tax a large amount. Therefore, in this respect, we want these arguments to be heard, that they are well cared for. The second thing we would like to warn in this segment is part of the old, so not only a low-income employed population and otherwise citizens who are through borrowing trying to maintain or create a comparable rate of growth of standards that could be with Central European countries, which is actually an older part of the population or population that is popularly referred to as the third age of our pensioners. We wanted, did not want us to be able to explain this Budget to read that, in fact, permanent pension growth or even better, we have a constant decline in average pensions compared to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. They're almost 44 wholes, and I don't know how far they've fallen since 2003 to below 395. If this adds one serious fact that the number, or percentage of new pensioners, relative to the rate of average salary growth, that is much, much less for them and that somewhere it is below 30% by some indicators in a recent time, then the question is actually who pays or who bears the most proportionate of its options to the Constitution to say... the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It turns out, however, that the citizens, the population, and that part of the population that is the most socially endangered. Another important indicator that we must indicate whether we wanted or not, if we take the planned budget for this year then you will see that it is not real and that it was not objective. Among other things, the data that shows in the explanation of this Budget and the budget rebalancing are actually in this ratio. The example works if you take only the planned funds for the Health Insurance Agency then you'll see that he's from 17.8 billion kunas that were planned a year before this year down to 16.8 billion, that for the drug budget he was planned with 2.3 billion, and before he was from 3.2 billion. And now you've lost once. That makes sense. But what is important is whether with the rebalancing of the budget, the issue of covering health loss solves the problem of health care and trends related to the problem of medicines, with health care problems and increases in prices, etc. No, I don't. My colleagues don't. We're not working it out. We are actually solving what is the consequences of both health and social health, and in this respect something is actually happening that is almost inadmissible for us to have a person, a citizen, a user of health services, a pensioner becoming a residual size, unemployed to become a residual size to which we actually give something of what we give, and it is serious for us as we wish to give particular warning. Every increase in social issues giving we are looking forward to, but on the other hand, we need to draw attention to the fact that it is not enough to resolve the consequences alone, this issue must start to be addressed in a concept that must ensure a better quality and prosperity and life on a higher standard for all our citizens and their families. We also need to warn of another important segment that we would particularly like to take into account, and it is not available in terms of budget, but, for example, in the case of economic reports, there is an economic chamber, and this is the situation that, according to the 2007 figures, the number of non-equity legal persons is growing compared to 2006. Of course, the number of outstanding warrants is also increasing. In fact, the question is now that you take that number and take the structure mostly then it is once seen that very often it is about small and medium-sized entrepreneurs or those who do cooperative business with large systems. And now I can accept the Minister's intervention that it is now a question of mutual unsettled obligations, etc., but one important question is that financial indiscipline is always getting weaker in the chain and in this segment it must begin to solve this problem in a studio and quality way and I will not say that some measures have not been taken, but obviously they are not sufficient because they show negative rates and negative further... They would especially like to point out the problem that is important for the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a problem for regional development, and as much as I say again, it's looking forward to the fact that the unemployment rate is being reduced globally, but we have one thing that we really need to take care of. The peripherals of our county of Slavonia, via Like, the Dalmatian hinterland, Dalmatia, Međimurje, are increasingly lagging behind in development for the central part, because their growth rate is lower than the growth rate of the central part. It's not the central part that's to blame. This is the faulty regional policy, and also the budgetary policy in that segment, and we must become aware of it as we must become aware of the fact that in fact, the rate of unemployment that is globally reducing due to the rapid decrease in where they are more developed, where economic potentials are greater than the City of Zagreb, Istria, the coast, etc., and that the little decrease that happens for example in Vukovar-Srijem County or I don't know Brod-Posavia or Požega or if you want Lika-Senjska etc., etc. that I am not counting, because I am going to drop some of them by chance in the list, it is not enough to catch the connection that starts to develop the Republic of Croatia evenly because it is even bigger and larger, and what is important to notice there are great potentials, economic and human resources that can contribute to the development of not only these parts but also the Republic of Croatia, and at the same time because of war destruction, because of the effects of war such as mining, etc., the destruction of economic operators simply do not have enough resources themselves, so that these capacities can be properly put into operation and must be helped not only by encouraging tax policies, but not only by encouraging-investment policies that will attract domestic and foreign investors, but also by direct means that the social community needs to be allocated through the budget and the state to actually intervene and invest and help through co-investment to open up those capacities that will open up new jobs, but that will have the market that will have the products and services that will be able to be accepted. I agree that one of the species that the state is doing is solving the infrastructure and the office-enterprise zone, but you know the entrepreneurial zone is just where the production needs to be achieved. So, we need to see and get and the subjects that will get there faster... We have a lot of entrepreneurship zones that are half arranged or fully decorated, and in which we do not have enough entrepreneurial entities that are interested in coming here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we must create conditions for faster investment and create an opportunity to create new jobs, new jobs and new solutions through this faster investment investment. One more important thing. It is very interesting to look at, compare the estimates that the government's budgets are getting much faster and bigger than that part of the rest of the budgets of the total that are shared between the state, regional and local self-government and the revenue generated by the electoral and local self-government rather than by local and regional self-government. And this shows that in fact stronger and fiscal centralisation is increasing through the achievement of income in the Republic of Croatia. We will have to carry out through regional development not only decentralisation of resources and powers, but at the same time actually create and provide greater opportunities for local self-government units to manage their potentials autonomously without supervision and without the consent of ministries and state structures as we have so far from the problem of borrowing to the problem of solving some problems on the one hand. And on the other hand, at the same time, the state is seeking no consent or even this House when managing its assets and not only in debt but also selling that property. It is only then that we find out through different entities of action and activities, such as "Maestro" to get such data that it has often been in the interests of the state and the social community, but in the interests of individuals and groups that have been exploited in this regard. As a result of all this, we believe that this rebalancing has secured and this is new that the state has first come into a situation so that it can settle all its commitments from its own budget revenues. That's good. Second, that even interest may be paid to pay. And that's good because he pays his property. But it's not good that what's very important is that we have a constant reinforcement if I may say so, and also a richer state from that point of view and at the same time that this wealth is equally untraceable and increasing the standards and positions of the population. Not only the average population, the average citizen, the middle class, and especially those who are socially endangered and who are on the verge of poverty, such as the unemployed, such as our pensioners. And in this respect, we believe that these issues must be addressed in particular. Now, how do we handle this if only a small step is taken outside of the budget billing proposal for this rebalancing. We, for example, say in Croatia will soon lack a lot of energy of any kind and especially electricity. Then let's increase the price of kilowatt hours so the consumer will pay to create funds for new, new power plants. We suggest no. Let's make 60 million out of these surplus revenues from the state budget to pay for it, not that we have to transfer it to consumers, that practically consumers are again funding public enterprises from which the benefits will primarily be achieved by the countries and not by the consumers themselves. Thank you very much. We will also propose a similar amendment during this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92802	Thank you very much. We have a correction. The first is Mr. Representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92803	Thank you very much. So a respected colleague did not say exactly when he said the growth rate of the Republic of Croatia was lower than comparable states. That's not true, because there are no comparable states. Apart from Croatia, no states in Europe had Serbian aggression and due to its decline in gross national income in one year of '91. at 50%. That compensation can't put us in comparison to any other state. It's also why we spend 10% of our budget on renovations annually. If they invested it, they'd be far ahead of the other states. At least this way we're their equal. It is also not true that the debt of our citizens is growing. In fact, the total debt of citizens is around 100 billion kuna plus, minus 2%, 3% and the total savings of citizens are at this point 171 billion. So 71% is more savings than total debt. And the third incorrect allegation says that the gross debt of the state is growing to quote. Well, that's not true. The minister just told you. It's exactly the state's debt to cut its share and it's down from 34% to 23%, which is absolutely commendable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92804	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vice-President Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92805	... about 214. [[Specially enabled.]] Rules of Procedure for the simple reason that you have presented some of the data that is hard to believe and from the true point of view to accept. And you're obliged to talk about accurate data. And correct the incorrect. For example, you said that no country was under major Serbian aggression. What about Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo or Macedonia, etc.? Or another thing you said among other things is that the rate of population debt does not grow in such order. I'd like to show you first if I were that part nice here's the chart that shows it, the Chamber of Commerce that exposed all that data. And third, of course, when it comes to saving, it is also partly growing but it does not follow the rate of growth of the duties of the Republic of Croatia, not the state, but the total debt of the Republic of Croatia. And the liquidity situation, too, here's the chart that I was talking about. So if you're already trying to defuse, then deny official data from the Chamber of Commerce, and that's quite difficult given... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92806	Thank you. In accordance with my position, I think which I apply when I chair, I never strictly stick to it because it's not here, there's no case opening up, so proving this or that, but people correct the incorrect allegations in his opinion that it's an incorrect assumption. So I don't think we should waste time on that because we're just going to do nothing but extend the session and actually spend time on those who sign up. I'll continue to apply if someone claims someone incorrectly said it, it's his claim. Therefore, I would pray that we stick to the widest of questions, correcting an incorrect allegation. And here's the violation of the Rules of Procedure that Mr. Andrija Hebrang reported. I think what I just said will probably apply to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92807	Thank you very much. I refer to Article 209. The Rules of Procedure because counterpart Arlovic was correcting what I did not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92808	Thank you. We have Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92809	Mr. President! Well, here I am, first of all, sorry that half of what my colleague Arlovic is saying we unfortunately don't hear, because my colleague Arlovic is speaking a little foreignly, a little after the microphone, we can't fix it or fix it, but I'm sorry. Keep going. Now, here's the deal. counterpart Arlovic points out, says, wages are falling and despite the rise in pensions, the difference between beaches and pensions is increasing. I don't know mathematically it's pretty hard to explain but I don't believe that as many audiences will understand it the way a colleague wanted to say it. He's still saying the pensioner's standard is dropping, which is incorrect again. Here they are now, already many pensioners have already won the third war of debt returns, so with those increases going on and on every year at least something contributes to the standard. And these same pensioners are no longer waiting like the '80s in their tails for 10 blankets of coffee, for a liter of oil, for half a kilo of bread, for which bons and so on. Therefore, there is little to be remembered when your predecessors did it in great style.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92810	We have another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vice President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92811	I would like to say, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues, that you have violated Article 214(1), in particular the subparagraph that reads: "by your conduct, you have deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly." The Assembly should be a general rule of conduct to tell the truth and to correct the facts that are said in the true way. I was not talking about wage growth and pension growth at all, but I was talking about their interrelationship, and I was talking about the wage ratio and the rate of budget income growth, and I found that there was three times the rate of growth in budget revenue according to the data provided by the minister rather than the rate of salary growth of 4.4. On the other hand, I showed you that the rate is falling because you are constantly increasing your pension compared to the average wage growth rate in the Republic of Croatia and you have talked about some other things entirely. Therefore, I ask you nicely, the Rules of Procedure and speak in accordance with the customs in the House and that come from the solemn oath you made in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92812	Thank you very much. The reference to paragraphs 1 and 3 of Article 214 is not applicable in this case, so by looking for your other violations of the Rules of Procedure, you have actually violated the Rules of Procedure because in your speech you do not stick to the topic under discussion. I think he's sticking to the subject that's being discussed. And secondly, it is other way to distract the speaker with its incursions. I don't think there were any intruders or interference speakers, so please look at me. I'm sorry I have to do this so they don't get up so lightly because they do. And in addition, except that he did not call on this article it was okay you in your presentation actually replicated the exposure or correction of an incorrect quote that can not seem to be done by the rules of procedure. I ask you that I would not continue to hold on to these lectures, which could otherwise be said to repeat the same thing over and over and over for years to refrain from doing so, and that unnecessarily, 90% of correcting incorrect allegations is not correcting the incorrect quote, and we know that. So what do we do now?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92813	Mr. Vice President, for God's sakes, I don't mind you helping your fellow ruling party but Article 214 has absolutely no paragraph 3 that you're putting me in charge of my mention of paragraph 3. I didn't mention it or anyone else, but I was quoting to you the lining that he made wrong. So if you want to defend them, I don't mind, but don't... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92814	Mr. Vice President, you've gotten angry without getting your word. ... That's not true. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's no defense here. I'm telling this same story, and when it comes to someone else, it will be witnessed by your deputies if they want to be objective. So no cheerleading here is, but in the form of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've replicated both of them, and that's true. Without it, I want to remind everyone who sits on which side these cases don't repeat themselves because we're wasting time and we don't need to. Now I ask the question why don't you answer the rules of procedure when it comes to someone else but then keep your mouth shut. Therefore, I have the same measure against everyone and it can't be accused by anyone in this House, and especially by me, I don't think my colleague could. Thank you very much. Mr. Stjepan Bačić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92815	Thank you very much. So counterpart Arlovic said an incorrect assumption that the rebalancing of this budget only solves health consequences. I would remind him that it is not true because the data in this rebalancing clearly show that for raising the quality of availability in the healthcare system, more than 33 million are foreseen, in social care 8 million, that the transplant programme has increased by 10 million, so all trends that go towards raising the quality of health services. Therefore, your claim is not correct. And besides, the system of these last few years has been stabilized and debt has reached more or less continuously not growing more than 2%.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92816	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's PGS, SBH and MDS's Club of Representatives Mr. Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92817	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. Here, today's debate reminds me of this year's Wimbledon. There are also main games interrupted by rain. Here are the main debates on behalf of clubs interrupted by the rain correction of incorrect allegations and violations of the Rules of Procedure. I hope it cheers up further. Today we are talking about changes and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. It is therefore a serious document, a document that largely creates Croatia's future. So, the document that tells us about how to deploy as many as 121 billion kunas if we mention extra budget funds here as well. As far as the views of regional parties are concerned, so the Međimurje Democratic Union, the Slavon-Baranja Party, the Primorje-Gorski Alliance, we have our own regionalist view of this budget. If I were to express myself a little bit, I would say, or should I put it in film that we are looking at it from a frog's perspective. Why the frog? So we look at it from the bottom, from the floor to the top because this budget of 121 billion kuna is probably 90% and perhaps more of all the budgets that are collected in the Republic of Croatia. The ten percent are the budgets of our municipalities, cities and counties. So our three parties have said I before the regional and regionalist parties. Regional because through their programme they represent the interests of their party and regionalist because they promote regionalist policy, means a policy based on the development of strong regions, cities and municipalities, which is the basis of fiscal decentralisation, regionalisation of Croatia and deconcentration of the authorities in Croatia. Our three parties cannot support this rebalancing precisely for these principled reasons because it was made by the matrix of all the so far budgets where most of them are said we had already stayed state, and the crumbs, only the crumbs remained for municipalities, cities and counties. This budget is actually ours and material proof that Croatia is currently one of the most centralised states in Europe. Some even use the expression that Croatia is today an ethic state in which the government controls almost 90% of all total taxes, and whoever controls the money controls everything else, has power, influence and so on. This rebalancing therefore envisions an increase in the 2007 budget by more than 5 billion kuna. It would now amount to no extra-curricular funds of £ 108 and a half billion. In total, they'd say... About 121 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By contrast, all our municipalities, cities and counties have very small budgets. And by doing so, they become directly dependent on the central government, which can thus affect political relations in some units, to the extent that they can capitalise on the political garneries they want, and contrary to the election results. As an illustration of the relationship between the state budget and the budget of the units of local and regional budgets, I will give you an example of the Međimurje County. In 2005, according to audit data that has therefore been made for 2005, the total budgets of all units in Međimurje County, 25 plus counties were planned for 286 million, and 256 million kuna was reached. So for the entire one county, there were budgets 25, 23 municipalities, 3 cities and the entire county. The budgets of municipalities, for example, in the County of Međimurje are different, but the characteristic is that they are really small. For example, the municipality of Donji Kraljec, the total income of its business, is 880 thousand kuna. The municipality of Donji Vidovec, right? It is the municipality of Striggova, which is the total or original income of a million and 100 and 30 thousand kuna. The latest figures, for example, on the budget of the Međimurje County itself for this year 2007 tell us that the county itself planned a business income of 102, 102 million kuna. That she also planned to sell non-financial assets. So our municipalities, cities and counties are forced and sold what they have most valuable. So the total budget would be 148 million kuna. And the original revenue would be about 55 million kuna. I'm talking about tax revenues. So these budgets are small, too small and these budgets are insufficient to meet the obligations our cities, counties and municipalities have under the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. This law therefore states in Article 19 that units of local self-government in their self-government activities must therefore ensure that municipalities and cities care for settlements and housing, spatial and urban planning, municipal activity, child care, social care, primary health care, education and basic education, culture, physical culture and sport, consumer protection, protection and promotion of the natural environment, fire and civil protection. Whether this can all be done in quality by a municipality that has a budget of 880 thousand kuna, even if it has a budget of 2 or 3 million kuna, that would be very, very difficult. The County has the power under this law to care for education, health, spatial and urban planning, economic development, transport and transport infrastructure, planning and development of a network of educational, health and social and cultural institutions. Is it possible to do this with a budget of 100 or 150 million? Very, very hard. The Republic of Croatia is still in 1997. The House of Representatives of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Decision declaring the Law on the Confirmation of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. So let me just read a few, a few parts of the introductory part. The State, the Member States of the Council of Europe, of the signatories of this Charter, consider the objective of the Council of Europe to be more serious, as close as possible to connecting its members in order to preserve and improve the ideals and principles that belong to their common heritage, and to consider that it is one of the ways of achieving that objective and agreeing not in the field of governance. Viewing local units as one of the main foundations of every democratic system. Viewing the right of citizens to participate in public affairs as one of the democratic principles common to all the Member States of the Council of Europe. Convinced that the exercise of that right is possible most directly, most directly at local level. Currently, this Law on Local and Regional Self-Government is currently a charter, the European Charter of Local Self-Government here in the Republic of Croatia is partly suspended, and we must therefore do a lot, a lot, primarily as regards decentralisation, regionalization, so that it works for the benefit of all our citizens. Now let's see what's next. This budget, in part, also focuses its resources on investment in balanced regional development. Unfortunately, the attitude of our club is that he does not do it the right way, i.e. That he doesn't do it in the right amount. In order to do this primarily as we imagine it would have to be tax reform by increasing the budgets of our municipalities, cities and counties. So let's check the income tax, the profit tax, that the redistribution also enters the value added tax and that our municipalities, cities and counties so double their budgets in a few years. That would be ideal, then. But there are also certain projects in this budget that are going towards strengthening the regional, regional development of the Republic of Croatia. But we don't think that's well done because there are no certain criteria. For example, whether an average salary criterion is used, average net wages paid in our regions, i.e. in our counties because the data tells us that these differences are dramatic, dramatic to repeat from year to year. The minimum average salary in 2006 according to the FINA data is 3314 kuna in Međimurje County, the highest one in the City of Zagreb is 5071 and the average one for the Republic of Croatia is 4421. Is that verified in this budget? It's not. Also, gross social product by county, I have that data for 2004. The lowest gross social product is 3367 euros in Vukovar-Srijem County. The highest in the City of Zagreb is 11660 and the average for the Republic of Croatia is 6461. It is also not valorised in this budget. So there are only a few items in this budget that, in our opinion, are doing the redistribution right. This is therefore the Regional Development Fund programme where it is defined exactly how much funding goes into the county and these are also funds from the Ministry of Finance in which it is therefore specifically defined in which the county, city or municipality go to certain funds. For example, we have other data to restore and develop the water supply system, etc. Some other data, there we don't know which county or where the wider region may be going to. We simply can't plan a uniform development then. At the beginning of this year, a significant, very interesting publication was issued in the Republic of Croatia, which I think should be the basis for a national regional strategy. It is a study by the World Bank “Assessing the standard of living, promoting social inclusion and regional equality.” Just to point out that the debate on this document was proposed by Mr Letica. He was on the agenda of this House, but unfortunately we couldn't do it until today, until today we couldn't discuss it. What they're telling us is what the main findings of this report point to. Among other things, it's said in one wheel. The eastern and central parts of Croatia are the most underdeveloped regions of the country with a poverty rate higher than 20% in central Croatia and about 17% in eastern Croatia. These regional differences will need to be addressed by the National Regional Development Strategy. We don't have that strategy. Through programmes and projects designed in an appropriate way to benefit from local comparative advantages and make the best use of local knowledge and initiatives. What may be interesting to note is that there is an item in the budget to be drawn up by the National Strategy for Regional Equal Development, but that is precisely the point, that these items, that are reduced funds for its implementation. And that is important, it is very important that we achieve regional development because the data from this study tells us that there are major problems and big differences between regions. This study divides Croatia into five regions that have approximately the same similarities, characteristics and concluded by some variables here only in a hurry to specify. As far as income per capita is concerned, the lowest income per capita is in the eastern and central region. Population spending per capita is the lowest in the central, eastern region. The poverty rate is highest in the central and eastern regions. Gross social product per capita. Lowest in the eastern and southern Adriatic. Average monthly incomes are lowest in the central and eastern regions. More and higher education is the lowest in the eastern and central regions. So, on the basis of this research that is available to everyone, I think we should make a national regional development strategy as soon as possible, because if we thus formulate and create history, the future of Croatia's development, then I don't think that these results between our regions would be so far apart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92818	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative William Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92819	Mr. Vice-President, knowing of your outstanding sense of justice and justice and of the tendency to conduct the meetings neatly, I would like to warn you that, at one point, an esteemed colleague, Minister Schuker, approached a fellow representative as he presented his colleague, Pavlic, and informed him of the need to correct what an incorrect claim should be made. I think it's almost unprecedented, and that's why I'm calling for Article 213 because I think there's a session to be conducted, and the minister should treat all MPs if not equally. It is also an opportunity for us debaters to have the same level of standing. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92820	Thank you, too, but I don't agree with you to introduce targeted communication here. Because I don't know what made you think the minister said something and what he said. It's never been restricted in this House, and as long as I'm the chairman, it won't. Therefore, these are things that do not stand and ministers can go to each bench to talk or to come to the minister. It was common in this House. I hope that we will maintain such communication and that this is not why we should lift it up and have no harm in Article 213 of the Law, because Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure, forgive me, says: “The Order of the session is provided by the chairman. ” In this case, me. “For disturbing the order at the session, the president can give the representative a firm measure.” Therefore, you mentioned an article that does not stand and I think you raised this bat incorrectly compared to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. We have a correction to Mr. Velimir Dance's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92821	Well, first of all, I only want to answer for Mr. Herman for a little while. You've obviously been burdened at this time for the last two or three days with various secret services, so I think you'd also like to introduce a secret service here in the Assembly that would be listening to anyone he's talking about. So much for that. ... Okay, but I think because he said something that doesn't stand. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And by the way, as far as correcting an incorrect quote is concerned,...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92822	That if it doesn't stand, please, Mr. Representative. If something doesn't stand here, I'm the one who will eventually warn. Therefore, if Mr. Herman and Diego are going to object again to this infringement of the Rules of Procedure in that sense, I say in advance that Mr. Herman is right, and therefore we do not need to discuss it further. You're the only one who can correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92823	So here's a series of incorrect allegations just two. Mr. Pavlic says it is the most centralised state and is not paying enough attention to the county and local self-government units. And he did not notice that there was an increase in funds from 217 million kuna in the Compensation Fund and that, by amending the Law on the financing of local self-government units in some local self-government units in Međimurka, the budgets have increased 40%.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92824	Thank you very much. You want a further breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92825	Thank you for saying what was simply necessary and only possible. But it's 214th in session, or 213th in session. My colleague mentioned some bugs out of the blue, probably having problems with the flies, getting me involved in some kind of story, and how he could even talk to me because I didn't have an argument. I think you owe Mr. Vice President one ruthless reminder from a colleague who's usually very kind and kind, but this time he's confused about those flies.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92826	And that's my jurisdiction, not yours, whether or not I give a warning. I estimate there's no room for warning, because it's been before, and if we want to turn this debate into an uplifting of these violations of the Rules of Procedure and correcting an incorrect quote so as not to talk about what the agenda is, then please, we can find different ways to do it. I ask you all without distinction to the left, to the right or to the center, to break it more and to work normally on this agenda point. Because each one of you can lift each other and the other and the third stick at any moment. Please, I beg you, I'm maximum tolerance especially when I'm sitting here. I may not be enough when I'm sitting there, but when I sit here, I take care of everything and try to be correct with everyone. Let's move on. It is up to the club of HSP representatives and Mr. Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92827	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. As every year when the budget is adopted, it is eternal, perfect and unchangeable until there is a rebalancing. Every year we hear the exact same story. So every year, the government is actually wrong about forecasts for three hundred million kunas or billions of kunas and every year around summer or autumn, some of the finance ministers explain to us that right now it's the perfect and unchangeable genius budget and so is this. The budget, of course, is like this rebalancing reflection of the government's policy, so this rebalancing is actually pre-electional rebalancing. The election is close, it is necessary to try to get the voter's sympathy. What is worrying, however, is that the main argumentation of this budget's growth was found in GDP's growth of 7% but beware not year after year but within the first three months of this year. It is possible that oscillations that are even greater than 4%, so it is possible that indeed within the first three months and have occurred greater growth, but the question is whether it will remain that way by the end of the year, first of all. And secondly, this growth is the result of imports and the borrowing of citizens, this growth is the result of trade growth, this growth is the result of construction works, this growth is not something that Croatia can and should base its growth on in the long term but is something that can only provide a reason for the government to go into increasing budgets. It is particularly interesting that as a great success, the growth of tourism is cited, and you pay attention not to income but to arrivals and nights. You will forgive, all over the world, the growth of tourism and tourism estimates and season assessments are based on income, not on arrivals and nights. But here's where the old and bad practice hangs in. What is crucial, however, in this rebalance is that it still increases the budget. I would literally like to experience one budget or one rebalance in which the budget will decrease. But all these years, every new budget, every new budget rebalance means only its increase. You've put a nice graph here on the 6th side of these arguments, where you can see finely how the budget grows during the term of office of this government. That budget, ladies and gentlemen, needs to be financed, that budget is a growing tax burden for our citizens. Of course, at the same time, the state doesn't collect what it can, it's funny that small revenues from concessions, dividend revenues aren't as far away as they could be. The revenues from privatising the one implemented in the best way, which is the public offering of citizens, have not met expectations. The government probably expects some of the money from the privatisation of shares it has in HT, but it is blocked due to DTK which the government does not have the power to cut and say it is in the hands of Croatian cities. All this together is actually saying that there is no clear economic strategy behind this budget, but there is a desperate attempt to see an election achieve a better point in front of Croatian citizens. It's enough to show the whole story of ZERP, or economic... which is trying to subtly drag itself through an increase in the ZERP implementation items here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You'll forgive who can believe that the government will really do this, that it will actually realize that in the remaining six months of its term of office if it hasn't done so in the previous 36 months. It's really hard to believe. Agricultural support is written as if it were happening 10 years ago, as if it's not obvious that we're in the middle of global warming, as if it's not obvious that this year we could be hit by a catastrophic drought. It's an even more interesting part of health care. So all of a sudden, the Ministry of Health remembered that there are huge debts, and suddenly there are even 1.7 billion kunas in rebalancing that will go to 1.2 billion to pay back, and half a billion to avoid the end of the year. Why was such a prediction not at the beginning of the year or at the end of last year to avoid all the unpleasant situations that occurred in the relationship between the hospital suppliers or the drugstores. Here, too, is talked about the increase of the amount in the division of the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport, etc. The cost of bringing new water to the islands is increasing, which is fine, but at the same time the ministry does not show even the slightest will, nor is it shown here in the budget to solve the fuel issue for our shipmen, so we swear to the sea, and only Croatian sailors here for the hundredth time again pay the full price of fuel. Italian sailors, Italian shipmen who must respect the same European Union directive on excise duties on petroleum products, still had blue diesel and that's what we've been looking for here for years, so I'm really surprised that it didn't try to get at least partially into this rebalance. This great concern for our citizens, alleged great care, is manifested through the one already debated, but fortunately still unadopted Law amending the Maritime Code, where 100 million kunas were sniffed out from our sailors on ships under a foreign flag. It actually shows how you plan to fill this budget rebalance. At the same time, there is absolutely no indication that they will be introduced as they were once trainees' vouchers that our students, when they graduate, can do their internships and at the same time swear to the knowledge society. At the same time, we are reportedly increasing education and science separations, but we do not allow our children, our youngsters, to do their internships at the state cost, but they must be tortured and able to cope. At the same time, there are savings in the most pointless places. For example, you have abolished 13 million kunas for the reconstruction of the municipal building in Osijek. All the jobs that were therefore agreed must now be cancelled. So all this together actually shows that this budget rebalance has to have and only has one purpose, which is to be a real pre-election budget rebalance and nothing more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92828	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have 7 corrections of incorrect allegations. First it's Mr. Anto Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, the esteemed envoy, Tadic, said the budget rebalance was not foreseen. I will just remind myself that when the government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the budget for the previous year, it established the measures both economic policy and fiscal policy, and that it pointed out in fact that if all the measures were implemented to rebalance the budget and the budget rebalances were indeed due to the revenue side of the budget, it meant that the funds were achieved in relation to what was not planned in the budget, so it added even more opportunities from these 5 billion under these funds, stronger economic activity, and I hope also the chances that the next budget would continue to be more than the rebalanced budget today.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92830	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92831	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said that economic growth is the result of citizens' borrowing. The prominent macroeconists said that the result of this industrial production of construction and in the third place of trade, which in the end shows that our competitiveness of our economy from 61st place came to 54th, then that is a desperate attempt to achieve what point in the voters, so God forbid there are more such desperate attempts. Now there's 5 billion more so it can be deployed where it's most needed. Then, that trainees who have finished college can't do an internship at the expense of the state, which is also not true. Let's say the Ministry of Health this year is for all the high professional equipment and the higher professional training of salary traineeships, and we know that in the state administration it is also applicable that local self-government units are also paying for a traineeship. So here's one of the incorrect ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92832	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92833	Thank you very much. Well, counterpart Tadic said the government suddenly remembered the health problems. Well, she didn't suddenly remember. We've been controlling health care since we took power since 2004 and we know exactly the trends in health care. The trends in health care are such that now the truth God allows us this rebalancing to advance some health systems, transplants, expensive drugs we... 56%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all about improving quality health care. Well, that's the job of every government and every ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92834	Correction, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92835	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Tadic said funds for science and education are reportedly increasing. A colleague isn't supposed to. These are concrete funds of 290 million kuna and it is not allegedly. It's really an increase in the funds that will happen with this rebalancing and quite certain that it will be distributed properly. But the impression is that there are people in this House who are not glad that income is greater than what is planned. The impression is that they are not glad that they will get more resources from science, which will give healthcare more resources. You're really asking the question that individuals have here, if they're not glad the funds are increasing? For 5 billion kuna, there is no indication of increased employment on the growth of the economy by independent experts and statistics not invented by this government. After all, 5 billion are not the inventions of this government but is the result of work and the result of all those shifts forward in the economy and in the whole society.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92836	Correction Mr. Representative Marian Bekavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92837	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Tadic found the government to be wrong about budgeting each time, which is not true. Dear fellow! The budget is made on the basis of forecasts and parameters from last year and cannot be determined exactly what will happen on the fiscal plan. That's why we're bringing rebalancing, in this case very good because the state and the government's cashier cashier by 5 billion kuna than planned and without new taxes and taxes, which is proof that this government is very, very good at taking care of state finances.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92838	Correction Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92839	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Bagaric, has already corrected this part, one that relates to the exposure of counterpart Tadic. I'd add another one, which refers to paying the internship. So when it comes to medical training, he's absolutely paid and he doesn't have any volunteer internships like that. And my colleague, Tadic, I'm really surprised that you're sitting in the House so much and you're not, I don't think you understand, I'm sorry, but I don't understand your assessment of budget needs and budget rebalances. Well, it's not a weather forecast. It cannot be predicted with certainty for one day, let alone for the entire year. I think it's really incomprehensible how you wonder what the rebalancing is about and how the government didn't know out of a thousand items to assess for each of them whether it would take another kuna more or less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92840	Thank you. Correction by Mrs. Bozica Solic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92841	Thank you very much. In his debate, MP Tadic said that at the end of the debate, this budget rebalance is only a pre-election trick of the government. Comrade Tadic! Compared to me you're very rare in this assembly but I'll tell you that and bring down that thesis because how is it a pre-election trick and you don't know that the deficit today is 2.8. That gross domestic product is 7%, which you can only dream of. And it's your whole debate that comes down to a pre-election trick, but that trick won't work for you in the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92842	Correction of Mrs. Lucia Chickesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92843	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow representative pointed out in his statement that this government in its budget does not even care about college graduates because it is the right budget to secure the resources for a traineeship. Mr. Representative! I'm just going to give you the information concerning the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and that area of social care. For this year, the government has provided 150 trainees with funds. This government has also subsequently recognised the needs of continuous learning and training provided a means for 100 school workers and retraining. In the course of this year, the government has also approved financial resources for 10 workers for the cost of a postgraduate study... And this government has certainly provided funds for 10 experts to perfect from different therapeutic professions. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92844	Thank you very much. Please, let's not waste any time on whether the rebalancing is necessary. [[Intruder: It's only for social care.]] Rebalance and if it weren't for the election, it would be, wouldn't it? And last year he's been slaughtered and every year, so it's not necessary to make up now that the rebalancing is because of the election. Let's move on. It is the Club of National Minority Representatives and Mr. Representative Furio Radin. ... What's the correction? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Of what? ... I didn't see you and you didn't lift the plate. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Mr Furio Radin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92845	I've seen him, but it doesn't matter. Thank you very much. The National Minorities Club is largely satisfied with the 2007 amendment and addition of the Republic of Croatia's budget for the following reasons, underlining mainly and underlining the reasons. The Council for National Minorities, though, is reduced funds but in the amount of only 10 thousand kuna, which is for the cultural creation of national minorities, which is certainly advice and accepted probably there are reasons, and that part which is intended for associations and institutions of national minorities, which is of our direct interest, is all connected and this is direct, is not... At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's National Minorities Office has reduced grants for the 220 thousand kuna Roma programme, but the budget in the national minority section has increased by 120 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Club of National Minorities is also very interested in the development of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, so we are pleased to find that for the Office of Human Rights, there is an increase in the budget of 2 million and 114 thousand kuna, respectively. This will probably lead to the Office of Human Rights also drawing up the National Programme, the Strategy and the Human Rights Programme that was due to work long ago, and we agreed that we would get the programme in 9 months, that it would certainly help and... for which a small group of experts is engaged. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Gender Equality Office experienced an increase of 2.5%, which is also a positive fact. Since in the world of national minorities, there is also always talk of reciprocity although not loudly and clearly, but it is always in some way present. I would like to mention the fact that the National Minority Club is concerned about reducing funds for Croatian national minorities in European countries and this is reduced funds for 650 thousand kunas. If we keep in mind that the total amount was one million and one hundred thousand kuna, we see that it's a 60% reduction. We, of course, do not approve of it as a Club of National Minorities because we know that all things are related to all things when it comes to national minorities, and in particular there is always some parallel between Croatia, which is normal, between minorities in Croatia and the Croatian minority in European countries. It's probably also connected to the fact that the services that deal in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92846	What do you want to create some tension here, what's wrong with you? ... Well, you picked it up, man didn't see it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please excuse me, sir. I'm asking the gentleman if he saw or didn't, which is why you're making a noise right now. Why are you banging on the benches? What's wrong with you? Calm down, man. This isn't easy to listen to, but calm down. ... We'll write you down, now you're asking, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92847	Thank you very much. I hope I didn't make a mistake, Mrs. Babic-Petrichevic. I saw that reduction. I saw him, so if I was wrong, I'd be happy if I was wrong. I say, it is probably also related to the concern of foreign affairs which, at least in our opinion, is not always about all governments, of course, is not always about national minorities and, of course, Croatian national minorities or Croatian national minorities abroad. Finally, and I express this satisfaction, this morning, an agreement was reached on the only major failure and the only major items where a significant reduction of funds was proposed and which would raise the question of the vote of the National Minority Club. Thank God this morning we made a deal. That's what I was talking about recently when I asked a representative question about building a sports hall at the Italian High School in Pula. You see, the Italian minority has a negative experience in the past when it comes to building school halls. In the mid-90s, we fought a long-term battle with the minister of the time because she did not want to build one school, the Italian high school in Pula, which was financed, which was to be financed and ended up financing 50% of Croatia and 50% of Italy. And then that story grew safely to international level. And the fact is, and I would like to underline that Italian national minority schools and gardening Italian national minorities and all school buildings cost 50% less in the Croatian state because 50% of the salary of the Italian government and remain owned by the Ministry of Education, remain owned by Croatia. So the sports hall of the Italian high school in Pula this morning, yesterday when we received a proposal of rebalancing on our astonishment of funding for that hall was reduced by two-thirds. And let's see what that was about. Because the construction of that school has been dragging around Croatian budgets for four years and four years has not been a single lump of land, not a single pebble practically moved or nothing started to work. Thank God, last year at the 11th month we signed the contract, they were all permits, everyone agreed, the Italian government, the Croatian government, the County of Istria and the city of Pula signed the contract. But after that, we waited again for eight months and nothing moved again, so I asked a parliamentary question and instead of the right answer that I expected we actually experienced today morning a reduction in funds. This morning we had an ad hoc meeting, and a deal was reached, so now we can expect that construction to finally begin. Minister Primorac has decided to submit an amendment and the National Minority Club supports this budget rebalancing with the amendment of Minister Primorac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92848	Thank you very much. We have a correction to the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92849	Thank you. My colleague Furio specifically said that the reduced funds for education are members of the Croatian national minority from abroad, emigrants but you did not exactly say index. He's 40.91, so more than half. So, with a million and 100,000 dollars, it was reduced to 450 thousand kuna, minus 650 thousand kuna, compared to what was planned by the budget. But it didn't just shrink, let's just say the small shipbuilding incentives went down by 14.5 million, but we'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92850	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92851	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague of Radin's, it is not true that the funds for national minorities have been reduced but that they have been redistributed in both the budget and the budget rebalancing of the budget. As for Croatian national minorities in European countries and funding, I will only list a few cases that this Croatian government has funded. 150 thousand euros from the Croatian House in Slovakia, special funds for the Croatian community, is not yet a national minority, in Macedonia, special funds for the Croatian community in Boka Kotorska and Montenegro, so I will take an example now living Macedonia and the Republic of Croatia. This Croatian government is not talking about reciprocity here. If it were reciprocity, then all national minorities in Croatia would get much less so here's a living example. The Croatian government allocated 90,000 euros to the Macedonian national minority in Croatia as well as to finance the Croatian national minority in Macedonia to preserve its name and its language. In addition to these funds, neither the lack of a Croatian national minority in European countries has received less than more. Live examples, that's where I listed them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92852	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the debate will be no more without a break. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92853	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The government wrote and sent us here to the parliamentary procedure that the budget rebalances the government seriously retains the direction of its development-oriented policy and the increased revenues are used for among other things for further investment in balanced regional development. I have here a memo from a municipality in Varazdin County that has been denied by this rebalancing but also by previous laws that have been passed. As you know, we're in this High House not with the help and votes, Mr. Vice President, and you're making order in the hall? So we know that the taxes of amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government intended to start applying with a new one, with this year we have brought units of local and regional self-government into an unequal position because the annual tax returns of the local self-government unit have to return part of the tax for 2006 to their citizens. The fact is that the units of local and regional self-government in 2006 had 34% stakes in the municipality's income tax, 10% of the county and 52% increased with 1.1% in favour of municipalities and cities, 15% in favour of the county. At the same time, the government took over the law and took all, all, the income tax. The fact is that in 2006 the difference in the income tax rate of the municipality and cities must return to their cities. And that's the share that's been going on since 1.1 this year. So we are aware that it will not be and is not to expect to pass a law that would correct injustices in these percentages, at these rates, because the fact is that, for example, I would ask that Mr. Minister if he could give us the amount of income tax that units of local and regional self-government will return to citizens instead of the central state after annual tax returns more than they did in 2006? The same amount of profit tax was charged on annual tax returns for 2006 in favour of the state budget above the fees paid and the amount to be paid by the new year was to be added to cities, municipalities and counties. That way we'd get the right picture. Here I will present the information for this municipality that I have mentioned, so the Martian municipality in Varazdin County. That municipality, I will read the data to be precise, for 2006 it achieved income tax without a cut of millions and 44 thousand kuna. Or 241 kuna and 40 lip per capita. It has an obligation to pay taxes to citizens on annual tax returns of 369 thousand kuna per 52%, so that its income for 2006 will be paid only as much as EUR 675 thousand per capita after the refund is made. Instead of the state budget, this poor municipality must return tax after an annual tax application of an additional 128 thousand kuna, i.e. per capita of 30 kuna. At the same time this municipality given the annual corporate tax returns for... It was to be implemented under the pre-existing law, so the profit tax should have reached around 849 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In doing so, only one entrepreneur in the municipality additionally paid the difference in profit tax of EUR 284 000 for 2006. Turns out only on these two examples that this municipality has been denied 384 thousand kuna. If this is an investment in the even regional development of such an undeveloped municipality, then it seems to me that right now, perhaps not in all municipalities and cities in Croatia, I accept that, however, I am asking, I am asking Mr. Ministers, in what way are you going to correct the injustice of such municipalities and cities in areas of special state concern in general, in which way are you going to correct the injustice of these municipalities? Especially since there is no Martian municipality anywhere in the budget rebalancing that they will receive assistance from the Government or the Central State. It turns out this way that the poor become more poor, that they should continue to mean that they will be as they have been moving out of this municipality so far, and only in the area of this municipality is the Martian state via profit tax for 2006 made more than 5 million kunas of income. Thus, this example shows that further investment in even regional development does not stand here and does not hold water. The other thing I want to warn you about is that the government says that the difference between these revenues will give to building a social just society. I'll take it. That's a great idea. But, ladies and gentlemen, when we've been making budgets for this year, then I've given amendments and I'm just warning you the basis for social giving hasn't been increased in five years and it's 400 kuna. In this regard, if we take into account only inflation over the years, the basis for social contributions should be a minimum of 470 kuna. We have on the agenda of this session amending and supplementing the social care law. We also have the Household Act, the Final Bill of Laws. We have already warned of what the government is intending to do on a social basis, and why is there no increase in the basis? If we have over 5 billion kunas more revenue in the state budget, don't you think this difference from 400 to at least 470 kuna should have been put into the budget? I'd like to hear what the reasons are if they weren't put in. Those items just don't exist. If we want a social righteous society, then we should obviously take care of the disabled, according to those who are fostered in families. According to those who have difficulty living in this situation, and we can boast how much we want to increase employment, it is difficult for those who live on welfare and giving to say that they feel in the budget that they live better. Apparently, the government forgot about them this time too. And I ask you, will you accept the amendments that will be given, which will go after these foundations to increase? Obviously you won't. By the way, I was trying to find out, and in this case yesterday we were discussing the law on the execution of a prison sentence. The story is that our prison system, and it was admitted yesterday in a debate that the prison system is unfortunately turning back. Well, here I am asking Mr. Minister where he is this time. I asked that question when the budget was being passed. State officials also visited the City of Varazdin and Varazdin County and said a new prison would be built in Varazdin because the county prison now existing in the city centre is unsuitable and everything else. Where's the budget rebalancing this prison? Apparently, one speaks when it comes to possession of cities and counties, then the towers in the sky are promised. Here, I'd like to hear where it is and those who have spoken and who are proud. It can be a good achievement that health care has increased money. Great! But now that we're talking about highly educated people and their internships, money has been found, here's the question, and on behalf of my niece, who interns at the Vincavac hospital. Gentlemen, have you forgotten about the nurses who intern for free? Obviously where there's a small number so it's easy to give for 10, 20, 100 people. What about 50 nurses in the Vinkovaga General Hospital, and what about nurses at the Varazdin General Hospital that I don't go any further that intern for free. Obviously, we have citizens in first and second order, and that's why I won't support this budget rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92854	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92855	My colleague, you mentioned a balanced, need for even regional development so I don't understand some items here in some ministries although the inflow of funds has increased is not clear we say I come from a region that is determined by the sea that the Ministry of the Environment for the Protection of the Sea envisions 190.000 kuna, which is nothing now reduced to 156 000 kuna. So, for $34,000. It's more like seeing someone who's incomprehensible to me. Improving health care on islands? With 7 million planned, 568 thousand is reduced by a million kuna. If we know what the islands mean to us and it's weird to me? The Centre for Social Care in Split from projected million kuna falls to 390,000 kuna. So, minus 810 thousand kuna, which I also don't understand, as I don't understand, is that it reduces the incentive of small shipbuilding from 16 million kuna to just a million and five hundred thousand kuna. So, minus 14 and a half million kuna. Encourage the island economy from 20 million kuna to 15 million kuna. Five million kunas less. Subsidies to farmers craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs on islands from 10 million to 5 million kuna. These are certain items, and it may suit me with a global policy of this and that, but it's interesting that this is repeating itself, that this was also in the rebalancing last year, that these were the items that were most affected even though the funds were overall looking up that I don't mind, that some, but I really don't understand, let's just say now I'm talking about the region from which I come, why they come to impact here these segments from that region.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92856	Thank you. Mr. Korenik's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92857	Well, colleague Jurovic, you've noticed we're on our way to this little shipbuilding right now. If a lot of money is invested and a lot of money goes away as it went to Brodo Split somewhere, then I guess if there's a big money where the money is being laundered across Austria and I don't know where all six million dollars is going, then it's no wonder it has to be reduced somewhere that it can be calculated. But obviously because we see that a good part of the project stands and that the money for projects is cut that someone in the government and the agencies who are subject to the government is not doing their job because otherwise, projects that were under way would not be reduced by money. If the projects were done neatly then the money would be spent. This way it's just a story we're going to brag about ourselves. I take it we're going to brag, it's election year and it's standing. But apparently this government has other priorities than we think, and that's legitimate. However, if less investment is made in the projects envisaged, this suggests the government's inability to prepare and implement the projects it envisaged for this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92858	Thank you. We have a correction from Mr. Agent Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92859	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of the hearing, an esteemed colleague said municipalities and cities return the extra tax paid, so overpaid tax. This is only partially accurate or incorrect because it does not refer to an area of special state concern where the State returns in full. Well, you've made up your mind, and I must say, you mentioned it. However, the tax that everyone returns was paid and spent, so it was only necessary to make sure that it was a little balanced that it was calculated that it could come back.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92860	Thank you. Correction Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92861	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said that the government forgot when talking about disabled people and people with special needs that the government had completely forgotten about them. Well, you see, my colleague, you've completely misinformed the public with such a statement because if you looked at a little document that was in front of you then you'd see that special-needed care allocations increased by an additional $116.2 million. And you wouldn't bring such a lie to the Croatian public. The same as those for the defendant's pensions increased by 297.8 million kuna. So the same as the child's allowance increased by 107 million kuna. And that's true, and that's what happens through this budget rebalance. And speaking of shipbuilding, then mention those criminals in that Victor Lentz. Well, it's more time for you to admit that crime that happened, and it's for every conviction. Don't forget that in your actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92862	Correction Mr. Anto Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92863	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On the presentation or most of Mr. Korenik's exposure, it turns out that by regrouping the income tax rate and taking the income tax, the government did not increase the fiscal capacity of the municipality that it listed and the other municipalities and cities, which is simply not true. Just by regrouping the income tax rate, this fiscal capacity has been increased and by taking the profit tax into the state budget, the government has actually corrected the injustice and paid back the funds to those to whom they were taken and they had in their area all our public companies, based on which tax was collected at the level of the city of Zagreb, which I think was the right of injustice. It is also true that it is not enough and enough to regroup the income tax rate to cover the domain of the work of individual units of local self-government but I think it is my intention that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, through its policy, further decentralisation of funds, also achieves this domain of work that the units of local administration and self-government have.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92864	Thank you very much. Mr. Korenik has reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I will, as I have so far, inform the Parliament that the transfer has been suspended, I am saying this because of the possible rational work of the Parliament, and I do not know if it has been passed on to anyone else, but on the second program it has been interrupted. Here you go, Mr. Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92865	In my opinion, Articles 208, 209 and 210 were injured by the fact that I have to say that they correct thesis that I did not say in that way. First of all, I said that given the heights of the social benefits base, and that's where the disability is and that's where it stands. You can wave your head all you want, that's all. And when you mention that unfortunate Victor Lenac even with this legal state of ours as it is, you don't think that out of the opposition people would have been long gone to prison to find something. This is how you abuse and keep repeating the same... because of your Privatization Fund. Then let the state of law say they are guilty and condemn them. All reports have been rejected, but it's important that you tell the stories without any evidence and muddle your own colleagues sitting here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92866	You've been replicating Mr. Representative from the Bureau's breach institute just to record himself. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right. Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92867	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, even though there's no transmission, but there are some things that the record requires, first of all, because it's extremely sensitive points. So we had the opportunity to hear three weeks ago that the mayor of the City of Zagreb and the head of finance Mr. Kojic publicly said that they were wrong about assessing the lack of income from the basis of the new Law on the financing of units of local self-government. Also because of Mr. Korenika's record, I'm here again and again saying that 99% of the units have received more funds than under the old law. There are three or four units that have a large factory such as Hum on Sutli and the normal thing that they had a large share of the income tax and will be returned when these ones are implemented, given that the state has made a full return to the profit tax, and the units of local self-government have made a full return to income tax, will make a calculation and will certainly be helped from the current reserve as helped the city of Rovinj because of the situation in which it was found because it had a very strong factory and given the size of Rovinj the normal thing there was a disturbance. However, fellow Jurjevic or Mr. MP would say that he did not read the budget enough because he is right, this position you are talking about has been reduced, but you have not seen a new position that is in your account 82 000 200 in the amount of 23 million and 500 thousand for the construction and modernisation of the fishing fleet. It's for the construction of small ships. So this position has been lifted and a new position is opening up. I'd also like to tell you that they... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It has not been abolished, it has been reduced, but a new position will be opened through which this project will be developed, as the project is eventually additionally financed by loans from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development where future ship owners participate with 30%, and the rest is financed by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and the Ministry of Agriculture. I would also like to tell you that the total resources for the island's development have increased by 24 million and 882 thousand kuna or from 265 million have increased to 290 million. Also another position, which is on the Regional Development Fund. 40 million is additionally new funding, given that new public private partnership projects have started, and since many units of local self-government will want to create public facilities, whether it's a school, but they can't, given the fiscal capacity to take over these commitments, so we opened this position with 40 million kuna, which should be increased by next year and in such a way should help units with weaker fiscal opportunities also participate in public private partnership projects, and not as some others do, make contracts and then burden the unit. So it wasn't my intention to compromise or anything, but since some of the details of the budget obviously weren't seen let me take the right to explain them a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92868	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92869	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. So, normally, the budget rebalancing that is made a few months before the regular elections are held, electoral and normal that any government that comes into a situation that has more income than it planned, is trying to show one great success, dedicated work, taking all the appropriate measures, and it is normal that it will try to place it where it sees that it will have some election-related effects. And that's normal, legal and legitimate in every country, one of the forms how the government can manipulate, or channel the funds that are collected into the budget means by taxpayers. Everyone will probably be happy about the fact that increased revenues are budgetary, so the situation is better than doing rebalancing, and that we have to cut the budget because the revenues are less than what is planned. Everyone is normally happy that GDP for the first three months of this year is 7%, but let's realistically analyse whether this is a real growth of GDP, whether it's just a secondary character of GDP growth, which, of course, all suggest, is because growth is primarily based on what is said and on consumption, on borrowing as citizens themselves, and also in this part something from industry and increasing construction works. We know that it's a growth of 22% of VAT above all. We know that our Croatian citizens are over 100 billion kunas already in charge of Croatian, or so-called "Croatian" banks. We know that the minuses are about 20 billion kuna on current accounts even though there's no record, but they're some sort of assessment. So I'd like, like anyone else, to keep this GDP growth at 7%, but at this point it seems unrealistic. It would also be likely that all mechanisms at the disposal of the state could be used, the growth of the budget and higher, which is for that area of the grey economy where the official assessment of Croatia's loss is, means the state budget somewhere up to 15 billion kuna. It's an official assessment, up to 15 billion kuna. I also gave Minister Shuker, and I gave the state's chief attorney information that's exact that yearly only tobacco smuggling loses about 2 billion kuna. So 2 billion kunas, data refer to backwards for 5 years, are official means how much is produced, how much is spent by both the tobacco institutes and all of them, and it is visible that 2 billion kunas are lost annually. Not to talk about oil smuggling, oil derivatives and other forms, we're not talking about these little things where the rule of law works when grandma sells old pants or something. These are your specific legal problems. Not to mention how the possibility of filling the budget could be created, to implement the conclusions of the Croatian Assembly about sanctioning illegality in conversion and privatisation, we know what the result of the state audit is, we know that in the end no one in that part has done anything, and first of all that was done by the people of the Privatisation Fund. Normally, it was illusory to expect when they led to that condition. Therefore, and I am not talking about that part of the question of how and how the banks with 15 billion euros were recovered on the burden of taxpayers of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and others sold for a billion euros were sold to banks at the end of the state because it means citizens invested 15 billion, now worth 40, 40 billion are official data. This is how and how these important shifts can be made and how and how this stability of these revenues can be ensured that they are essentially stable, that this GDP growth remains in that part and all of these other variants which are now as such positive and which would be good to continue in this direction. That we are not talking about the situation now that we among countries mean to transition we belong to countries that invest a lot in new investments, but official data tells you, but it also means budget funds for Croatia to lose on bad investments somewhere around 5.6 billion kuna per year. It's official data from the professor of economic colleges. So these are these bad investments... Dean and prodigal to Minister Shucker. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here are the variations where the state can act, where it can affect what belongs to it, but the state does nothing, does nothing to sanction the illegality of established conversions and privatisation, has done nothing or is doing a review of the privatisation of Croatian banks. There is nothing to be done to establish a domestic national bank that will have consideration for the Croatian man, who will have according to the Croatian craftsman, according to the Croatian small and medium entrepreneurs. But, in fact, state supplies that are not small, we had to put over 30 billion euros into the commercial banks externally and now these commercial banks are lending the money to the outside. Yeah, yeah, that's the money they finance, the loans they give, they place ours. That's the part. ... So you keep the Divisions and the Reserves out there. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. ... Minister Shuker, please calm down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you want to do the job, give me two billion kunas now, which I've given information that the smuggling is tobacco and tobacco products. I gave you the information that oil and oil derivatives are smuggling. You have them, I officially sent them to you, I sent them to the state's attorney, nothing was done. These are concrete things. So everybody's happy if they're higher incomes. Everyone's happy if there's greater revenue in the budget, but I'm telling you how and how to make these revenues stable, to make the area of the grey economy, and you were anyway on the board of directors of the fund. That's why I'm telling you because you're on the board of trusts. Then take the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament since 15 December 2005, what have you done? General Gotovina is under command in the dungeon, and you consider yourself not responsible. ... Yes, yes, General Gotovina is under orders in the dungeon, and you think you're not responsible for anything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We can't talk like that. If you are a member of the Management Board, then you are working towards the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament. You are working towards the conclusions of the Croatian government. That's why he's on the board of directors. So, I'm just saying this, how many other situations are there and the possibility of getting up against domestic product growth, so that it doesn't have a secondary character, that what's illegal, what's kidnapped, illegally acquired, can never become legally acquired. There's no such thing as SDP says in good faith someone bought it. Buy a car, you think it's from the owner. Check with the police, in good faith, but once the police find out the car was stolen, they'll come and take your car. That's what good faith is for you. That's a good faith for you. What's going on with the banks? Why no one has allowed either the former or the current government to enter into a revision of the bank's conversion and privatisation. Why? This is probably what the Croatian public is expecting, we all expect. When we take the variant that the Split Bank was sold to former Italian coalition authorities for 84m euros, then it is... Austria for 136m euros, and eventually it sold the last transaction for a billion euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How many miles of highways were we able to make? So what kind of math is that, what kind of government property is that if you have, like, 15 thousand kuna for this part of the bank, then you're going to invest in some kind of project, and you're going to end up selling it for a thousand kuna. No one normal will do that, but unfortunately here you see according to official data and the Croatian National Bank, and these data are in Mr. Slaven Letica's book, it's really, it's cruel indeed. Here in that part means there's a lot of possibilities and a lot of situations to fix things. And finally about this County Court in Osijek. The funds were secured. In the end, the 13 million kuna funds are now being taken away. I'm asking you what's wrong with that? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92870	Thank you. We have two corrections and one replica. First the corrections. Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92871	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is representative Pero Kovacevic said this rebalancing budget was electionary because it was brought a few months before the election. The rebalancing is made when the conditions for rebalancing are met, and now conditions have been met and this rebalancing actually shows that achieving the objectives of this government, maintaining macroeconomic stability, fostering and achieving high growth rates. All that the government has done this 3 years has been best expressed in the budget, i.e. in this rebalancing for 2007 and the achievement of the larger inflows planned for 5 billion budget revenues, the result of accelerated economic growth affected by investment in capital, industrial production, the first 5 months of 8.1% of the increase in construction works of 5 percent. Then, the turnover of trade of 7.5%, the positive trends in tourism, and the arrivals of tourists of 13.9%, a night of 8.9%, and I think that all of these are good indicators, so the growth of revenues that will be 5 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92872	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92873	And the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92874	Correction, Mr. Anto Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. One part was already corrected by Mrs Majdenic when she said that Mr. Kovacevic claimed this was electoral, I would add to the incorrect allegations he confirmed and said that it was manipulative whether the rebalancing of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was simply not standing. The government is again, I will repeat something that I have said before, on the basis of increased revenues of 5 billion continued in continuity and continued in continuity under this Budget Proposal and in the recovery of health losses but also giving a new component and development of infrastructure and the development of the general state, the state of Croatia. Therefore, it cannot be manipulated if it is already done in one continuum of the term of office from the first year of government until the last year of government rule. But based on the arguments it has in the five billion kunas it reaches.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92876	Thank you. Replica Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92877	Thank you. You mentioned the Municipal Court in Osijek and the funds that, the municipal building in Osijek and the funds that were intended for them, were reduced or disappeared. When I mentioned this little shipbuilding, I meant this particular problem. Why are the funds shrinking somewhere? What makes this little shipbuilding happen to me? Mr. Minister here tried to explain that the funds for the islands increased 25 million kuna in total by looking, but small shipbuilding is not only an island problem but a complete coastal belt and people living at sea. But by my count, three items where they've been reduced in one way or another by just stimulating small shipbuilding, which is, say, the incentive to build small ships, floating hotels, and so on. Then encourage the construction of ships for Croatian boaters and the third thing I mentioned was 33 and a half million kuna. So even if those 25 million kunas that increased overall by looking at one place were compared to this is less than this.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92878	Replica... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92879	Okay, I mean, it's about both because there's some money missing here, too. It's not really a clear methodology that reduces it on these items as I was also surprised that the Ministry of Environment is reducing that protection from the sea from 190 thousand to 156 thousand kuna, but that's why the restoration of the rolling stock flies from 100 thousand to 585 thousand kuna, which is an index of 485. It's so incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92880	Answer Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92881	Here's Mr. Vice President, the distinguished colleague is correct, and you've given specific examples of why the budget is essentially electoral? Why are you taking a court in Osijek? Because HSP is the strongest one there, so those funds are going to be transferred somewhere or these parts. These are the correct examples. If you have five billion increases, then why are you taking it? So it can't be explained by any logical sequence or any smart situations, but it'll be matched somewhere else because they know that they don't have roses in Osijek. Which is clear. Now that we're around that shipyard, you're right. But imagine what the situation would be if the HSP proposal had been accepted if the economic belt had been declared, what the situation would be in shipbuilding and that we would have EUR 100 million per year in plus fish and everything else. It is the lowest level, but normally we keep national interests, so whatever any member of the European Union or the European Union says as a whole, we say, "Yes, it will be what you say." That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92882	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Slaven Letica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92883	Mr. Vice President, I stayed here to draw attention to the fact that there are 13 or 15 MPs in this assembly right now, just as much as the state budget is going to rise this year. If we had some foreign journalists upstairs at the gallery and you were to ask them what they're discussing today, they would assume they're discussing some sort of banal issue, the eradication of locusts or mosquitoes in some community. What is particularly sad is that there is no nominated candidate for Prime Minister Ljuba Jurcic as Greta Garbo missing from this House. And I think he made one big mistake because it shows that he doesn't appreciate this House of Commons and shows that in some way he doesn't want to seriously discuss serious national problems. There is no Slavko Linic,... Modern economic nihilism in Croatia, which said in 2000 that bankruptcy will save Croatia massively in Opatija, so I told him that I have not heard from the age of great historical nihilists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there is no friend of mine, Matta Church, of my former assistant lover Marin Franicević Pločar, who should also be present here. There is no candidate for foreign minister and so on. In that comfortable position, Minister Schucker feels self-deserved and self-loving, many reasons because macroeconomic indicators are in favour of this government. Now, as far as this government's contribution is concerned, I'm going to say that that rate of 7% of gross domestic product growth and I'm looking forward to it. It therefore delays at least a year's arrival of Croats in what I call theoretically absolutely debt slavery. This is a turning point in the development strategy or statistics when they pay off on the basis of foreign loans at, say, an interest rate of 5% exceed the increase of gross domestic product. This government, due to a whole series of favourable circumstances, and including favourable foreign policy circumstances, serious negotiations with the European Union, serious entry of foreign capital encouraged by this, has delayed the Croatians' departure to absolute debt slavery by this positive political environment but certainly must not be a reason for excessive satisfaction. On several occasions, it has been mentioned that each government has practically increased external debt by €10 billion over the last 8 years. So that's what the government of Ivica Racan did, God gave him the rest of his soul, and the current government of Ivo Sanader at the end of the term, that foreign debt would come somewhere at about EUR 30.31 billion. According to the Croatian National Bank projections, the next government will grow to EUR 40 billion. My projections are more than that. He would explain to the minister why Croatian National Bank analysts were somewhat optimistic and reduced the curve. So when a more serious economic analysis of the 7% growth factors is done, the foreign borrowing factor would not be negligible. But this does not mean that the macro-economic indicators of this government should not be praised, as well as an indication of a reduction in unemployment, regardless of how it is measured, as well as an indicator of the growth of budget revenues. And the allocation of that larger budget is relatively good. However, I would say so, and that is why I have actually come to ask you, Mr. Minister, not to have to report you to the State's Attorney's Office. Namely, Reverend Mile Vranesic of Žumberka, with whom I negotiated in 2003 to finally build that road, a mountain road from Sošić to St. Gera, which was to be called the Mountain Road of the model Cardinal Franjo Kuharic. With your kindness and kindness of model Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, you allegedly singled out that 14 million kuna and delivered it to someone. Since I don't know who you delivered it to, Reverend Mile Vranesic, the Greek-Catholic priest of the time, and Branko Lustig of Hollywood moved in, he warns me that the money was not given. Therefore, I would like to avoid prosecutions, especially you, please tell me, either today or within a reasonable period of four, five days, what this is about. The second question is about the amendment that I, then as a member of the HSP club, today, was only a member of the Highduk Assembly Club to choose to allocate $35 million to one of the accounts in the Italian banks in Croatia on behalf of paying off the last commitments under the Isserial Agreements. That's not what Mr. Minister did. I'm very angry. Finally, a very important question is what happened to the two documents I gave you and the model Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. The first refers to the payment of $20m by order of Radiir Cacic three days before the election of Bechtel company to the name of the fictitious early completion of the work on one of the shares. At that time, I had already drawn attention to the circumstances that only traces of money should be followed and that the monitoring of money trails and printing of promotional materials in a Zagreb printing press and the payment of those costs from the Bechtel firm in Spain would reveal the fate of that money. The second contract I gave at the time refers to 48 million kuna for the famous contract in... It's all there in the State's Attorney's Office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My skeptical relationship with the work of the State's Attorney's Office is based on an undisputed conclusion that the State's Attorney's Office is very effective in the stages of running different procedures, but things never end. All in all, therefore, I am sorry that today there are no prominent Croatian husbands who should be there, and as for modernization and rational spending, I will show you the cover of today's "Free Dalmatia" which has made me infinitely happy "The End of the Quiz in Croatia, Splitnian Robert Pauletić, the winner of "Kviskoteke" gave me the orphans a million kuna". That's one wonderful news. The second news about the irrational spending of money is much smaller. One week said that the mayor of our capital allegedly financed his own CD with 5,000 euros and I will read you a part of the CD that is very interesting for modernising Croatian economic governance and social life. This is what he says: "The child baptizes Friar Mrki Blago, the name Milan to parents dearly. The child grew up in Cer's Doc, the joy was both mother and father. From the diaper when he came out, first his mother cut his hair, a little longer his shirt sewed to suck his butt and hide it.". It's hard, gentlemen, so in a ten-year culture, you can hardly modernise the work of the state administration. As banal as it may seem with such a kind of consciousness, we can neither modernise the governance system nor rational governance, and therefore I appeal to you, Mr. Minister, I have done so on several occasions. You know I have great sympathy for you personally. Pedagogical if you win the election and I hope you lose 50 pounds by the year. It will be a gesture that you will show that you too think of every kuna, every lip like this cheap Tonči Tadic thinks. And yesterday he invited me for coffee, and in the end I paid for it and he invested it in rebuilding the family house in Starigrad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92884	Don't let me give you a heads-up about this. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92885	It is an incorrect quote from fellow Letica that Ljubo Jurcic, quote him, has shown that he does not appreciate this home. I don't know why it's a fellow Letica who, in the meantime, imagined that the elected director in this High House as he used to be in the class of hygienists and directors, so he keeps gathering and who, apparently, only the SDPs, specializes in it. And I think this is an offensive false statement. Otherwise, my colleague Jurcic is in this building right now, and he's got other things to do, as my colleague Letica probably had other things to do yesterday, so he wasn't here this afternoon until 18.45, so he was called to speak, but he wasn't there. Well, it doesn't occur to me to call him, to tell him, to ask him where he's been, even though perhaps Mr. Shucker should have imagined this statement that fellow Letica has great sympathy for you personally.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92886	Replica, a respected representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92887	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I need to replicate my colleague's flight. It's true, I saw Mr. Ljubu Jurcic today like last week, the truth isn't in the hall, but there's a walk down the halls. Now I don't know if his work is in the halls or in the councils, it's for Croatian citizens and voters to assess the work. Second, on the road to St. Geru, it's all true, you said all right, the amendment was accepted. And what happened? The man made that part of these rough earth work and everything, Mr. Rozic spoke to you and to me. I also asked Mr. Kalmeta's parliamentary question, he normally passed it on to the Croatian roads, the money was secured but only about 4 million was given. The man did the work, but no one's gonna pay him for it. There, so much about how that amendment was, so start with those criminal charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92888	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92889	I haven't criticized Ljuba Jurcic in the last five, six months he's been there once. So it's just one statistical finding. And as for this unfortunate road, it is especially important that it be built as soon as possible because there is a listening and intelligence center. It is therefore very important to let the Slovenians know that one smaller group of four, five women can win the military because they obviously do not want to withdraw there. And this is especially important for this government because there have been speculations that all incidents in Savudrija Vala and St. Gera have been agreed between the model Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and Janez Janša. And I reliably and responsibly claim to this small number of MPs that this is not true for St. Geru. At that time, Ivica Racan was in power and I went there on my own initiative and at my own risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92890	Replica, the esteemed representative of Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92891	Dear fellow Letica! When we talk about the $35 million solution to the optanans problem, it was the amendment of the HSP Club, which was unanimously accepted in the Assembly but which the government has so far ignored, which only speaks of the government's ignoring attitude towards parliament's decisions. Apparently, the government also lost itself in the fogs the idea of real estate returns to Italians, Austrians, etc., although all these topics, all these problems are solved by the appropriate international agreements that we inherited. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] I expect that by the end of the term, the Government will still realize this $35m and this payment in the way that the Slovenians have resolved and that this will not find us in the follow-up of negotiations with the European Union. And as for mine as you called mercilessness, it's actually a rationality that I wish there were more stories in this government and more rationally spending money paid than our taxpayers' taxes. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92892	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92893	I agree, Mr. Tonchi Tadic, but I don't agree until the end of the term. I think Mr. Schucker that before disbanding this High House, that means after a successful harvest in the tourist season, these $35 million should be deposited in the Bank of Commerce, which is owned by the Italians anyway. It is a simple system, something like that was done by the Slovenians because they will suspect that this is a very vicious game of this government that wants to fail to pay off the situation that Italians need to be restitutioned for the second time, and this is already partly done because they are returning real estate and grant one to an Italian union in Istria and in Balaam where we were Mr. Tonči Tadic and I.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92894	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92895	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, a few words about the way we work today. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Vice President, could you remember a few sentences from the previous presentation of fellow Leticians that relate to budget rebalancing? I can't. Furthermore we have to say, we're talking about the Rules of Procedure, we got yesterday morning this CD and then we got at 14 o'clock this material. It consists of 500 pages of text. On each page, on average 25 items. In each item the number, the name of the item and six columns of the numbers. Multiply that so you'll get 87,000 data that should have been reviewed from yesterday afternoon until this morning. So we're for each, and we're clearly deploying what, we're deploying another 60 billion kuna by the end of the year. So for every million kunas of budget money we had at our disposal half a second to control the purpose and regularity of their spending. I ask you colleagues and colleagues, is that the right way to work? My answer is definitely not doing well. But perhaps he was also the aim of the promoter to give us such short notice. But then it's more than sad. I do not belong to those, look, I even claim that even the optical readers of the Croatian lottery would not be able to make such a large number of figures too much analysis. I definitely wasn't able to do that. So I focused clearly on only one area that is close to me, which is education, science and technological development, so allow me a few words on the subject. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports as you can see from the rebalancing proposal will get less this year, namely growing at a lower rate than the budget itself is growing. It's growing at a lower rate, but we're talking about the development budget. Let's go in order, first a few words about primary schooling, then secondary schooling, higher schooling, science and technology. Basic schooling grows at a rate, proposed 1%, check on page 211. The budget should grow at a rate of 14%. High schools and dormitories receive 3% more funding. Look out! High school homes, we're talking about the mandatory introduction of high school, high school. Clearly, the majority of students will have to go to larger centers, dorms, and the pressure on these homes will grow. We're raising only 3% more resources. So the goal is obviously impossible to realize. Adult education in a country that has 700 thousand people who don't have a complete primary school. And 800,000 of those who only have primary school. For adult education, we will allocate 9% less funds per rebalancing proposal this year than we did last year. And we need KV, VKV workers. We're not doing anything, but they're reducing funds for their extra education. Development of education, page 221. 63% less than in 2006. We're going to high school. All scheduled four percent growth in higher education funds, page 225, you have details. I'll just list some of them. Here's the students' accommodation again because the Bologna Process, you know what the primary predicts. It is the mobility of students, so again these capacities, accommodation facilities are very important. There will be no increase at the University of Zagreb, there will be a 3% increase in the University of Rijeka, a decrease of 9%, and a decrease of 22% in the University of Split. It's similar in other universities and universities, that's page 228. The scholarship of regular students and the scientific training of regular students envisions a 51% reduction from 2006. As far as science and technological development are concerned. For scientific research, activity is actually projected to increase 7%. Please, the rebalancing forecasts an increase of 14% for this year's budget itself, so double the growth rate. Investment in scientific infrastructure will grow at all rates of 5%. Maintaining scientific infrastructure reduces the allocation of maintenance funds by 2%. Scientific equipment will be supplied at a rate of 6% higher than in the previous year, but still more than twice as much as the budget itself is growing. It is especially painful to see how the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development went. That foundation last year we had a report last week in the Parliament. She didn't get a single lip last year. Five million kunas were promised this year. In the first six months, the foundation has not received a single lip. So for 18 months now, the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development has not received a single lip. These are scary data, scary data, looking at our desire to actually talk about some kind of development policy. The national information infrastructure will be financed with 41% less funding. So 70 million kunas will get less of that segment no more than a year earlier. An education and education agency like that. There goes the teacher's training. We don't have an item for 2006 but we have a partnership with what we predicted at the beginning of the year. We now anticipate 34% less resources for teaching, 16% less for adult education, and this item is particularly interesting if you analyze it further for education, for the development of adult education. So 16% less but very interesting than that is going to go for official travel. Therefore, the basic method of developing adult education consists of official travel. At the end of this morning, the prime minister said there would be no budget cuts in development policy. That is true, because Croatia has no development policy, so we have nothing to deny. But if we're especially in line with the numbers and sizes that I've just given, then we can't be satisfied. We will not draw closer to the commitments we have to the Bologna Process with regard to the separation of higher education and science, nor will we get close to those rates. You know what they predict, what they are, and what they should do to get close to them. If all the development items, just all the development items in the budget rebalancing, grow significantly slower than the budget itself, can we call such a budget a development budget, and we are not using the minimum possibilities of that budget. I don't think that's the development budget. It is a budget that slows down the development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92896	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92897	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here, MP Doric said that, he presented a series of data that less funds are being invested, i.e. it stands out for education and science, which is not true at all. Here, investment in education and science in the 2007 budget therefore increased by 8.9% and 853 million kuna respectively compared to 2006 and the rebalancing increased by an additional 291 million kuna. Primary school education received 104 million kuna additional, secondary school 41, higher school education 37 million, scientific research activity 17 million, information, technology, sport and international co-operation 93 million. So a total of 291 million additional funds. It's about investing in science and education.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92898	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ante Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representative said the Government of the Republic of Croatia has no development policy. I deny it, and I claim it does, and it's incorrect and said it doesn't. So, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this budget rebalancing shows exactly that development component in both the part of the construction of economic infrastructure and the part of the construction of social infrastructure. And another quote he must have noticed as a professor. There must be a large amount of material, numbers and everything else. But here I am, denying his incorrect quote, confirming and expressing my gratitude to the Ministry of Finance headed by the minister that they have yet brought this closer to us in one transparent, accessible, valid way, starting with this CD because we must bear in mind that here all of our lists are shown in substance, individually, but ultimately and consolidated. So the data could have been used absolutely at any time in the place where they eat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92900	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92901	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. There are a few things that this budget rebalance should simply include everything in my opinion clearly and not. It's primarily a fight against drugs. Dear gentlemen, over the past two months, this is the data that simply fraternized me in the city of Rijeka, closer to the area than the over dose or the direct effects with drugs, eight young people aged up to 20 or about 20 years have been killed. In the same period in Istria, two young people were killed from the beginning of the year to the present, according to the head of one such centre, Dr Ivancic. By the way, we've had about nine years in Istria when we're looking at three to nine overdoses under quotes. The average is about five of them a year. What do I mean by that? Why am I starting this discussion like that? I simply advocate that this rebalancing provides the means to test drugs and children who attend the final classes of eight-year-old school, or children who go to high school, or boys and girls who attend college. If we were able to ensure in this budget what a valuable initiative is worth means for these free textbooks, i.e. textbooks, homes, etc. Then I don't see the problem that if we reach one consensus, maybe that consensus should first of all be achieved by one expert public rather than by representatives to ensure the necessary means of drug testing. The second thing I'd like to say is next. Logic is clear. We have about 5 billion kuna in our budget this year more than we planned at the end of 2006. If so, it is either a sign or we are going under quotes very well so that we should not get very carried out or perhaps, on the other hand, because of such financial indicators, we should reduce taxes or maybe we should reorganise the whole country and, as some advocates advocate, decentralise and regionalize the country. We're talking about 7% growth. This is impressive for Croatian occasions, I know that in Istria it's over 11%, but it didn't impress anyone, it doesn't matter, but I think it might be good, I was saying this morning in front of the IDS club if we might open a debate and have a discussion about the need to cut VAT from 22% to 20, maybe 18%. Probably minus 4 of those points would be too much, that would be equivalent somewhere from 6.8 billion kuna, but I think already today the country can actually bring down the VAT to 20%, or that it might be equally opportunized to introduce some differentiated rates first of all to a whole series of food products. If they did, I think they would have made a significant savings in our citizens, although I, unlike some MPs, look forward to the budgetary capacity of our municipalities, our counties, cities, etc. Because if it didn't, then there wouldn't be a million and 80 thousand pensioners as many as there are today, they wouldn't be able to expect an increase in their pensions, then even those who are employed and who get paid from that public sector couldn't hope for some raises. If that budget did not grow or the opportunities in health care could not be resolved, etc., etc. What else do I want to notice? It's clear when I speak and mention pensioners I advocate the equalization of old, new pensioners. It is likely to be done at the next session of this House because this problem is urgent, it needs to be solved immediately, and it seems to me a logical performance during yesterday's State Inspectorate in Medulin where the prey is so-called. You falsify the goods, but they're back on the raid from Istria. Why didn't it start from Zagreb, Zadar, Metković, Imotski, Sinj, Slavonski Brod, I don't know, but I'm totally behind it. The order should be seduced because in a mess those who regularly comply with their obligations, first of all towards the state, and so I do not feel guilty about this detail, but I think that these actions or similar actions must be permanent throughout the season and in each of the Croatian counties. What may be particularly intriguing is the government's promise that in case the city of Opatija doesn't get 25% plus one share, it will either be that or I don't know the Croatian Fund or what's left of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which in case it loses that equivalent in the money of that 25% plus one share. That could reach 300, 400, 500 million kuna somewhere, which I know how much. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, a spokesperson for the Administrative Court confirmed that the administrative dispute in which "Essen Holding" sues the former Securities Commission, today it is for us to own the "Liburnia" hotels in the beginning of autumn. I think our judges are actually waiting for an election break, but otherwise it's interesting. Let's just let what "Essen Holding" sells and its shares, it's interesting that the government's initial debt to "Essen Holding" has increased and now stands at between 1.2 billion, 1.3 billion kuna plus 15% interest per year. We're still waiting for the assessment of the legality of that contract signed by the government with the city of Opatija on 14.6. if I'm not mistaken. That deadline for assessing this legality is 29.7 and I want to believe that normal bodies will give one positive opinion. What makes me tangled too, what's on my mind is opportunities in Lance's relationship to the cooperatives, Lenac's doing today, 600 people are employed there, 300 cooperatives. Obligations shall appear neatly within 30 days. I know that at Lenca, the prime ministers of this government will get about as many votes in the Primorje-Gorski County as Racan received in 2003 by building Dalmatina in Zadar-Knin County and so much for me "Lenac" in no way should be a political issue, it is not politicised, but must be seen exclusively as an existential and clearly first-class economic issue. But why am I now mentioning these outstanding liabilities through the bankruptcy plan to the cooperatives? Because if we want to end this procedure this year, I doubt it will go without government intervention. But something else is far more intriguing to me. It is that this House will adopt the framework programme for refinancing the next day, I do not know exactly what is now called the Croatian economy of 100m euros means that Minister Schuker signed with the World Bank champions in charge of Croatia, where it is planned to sell the share of one of the Croatian large shipyards. I mean, first of all, or first of all, he's thinking about "The Oilman." And if that happens, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him. You've got him, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, For the end of one more thing. There's a little talk about shipbuilding here, unfortunately. A huge effort makes the government stabilize something. Unfortunately, she's not doing well. There are more dubiosis in Croatia's large shipyards than in Lenca, but they are state-owned enterprises, so there should be nothing more important to happen than to vacuum billions and billions of kuna from year to year. What I personally want to secure is at least the money needed for the project documentation of the train tunnel through Učka. Not to get Istra, Istria might get here at least. Most would be the City of Zagreb, the Croatian Railways, because that would be how our railway would be connected to Italy further towards France, Barcelona and so on. I doubt that anything will be done about this, but if we are going to call a three-mile road length bid this year, if we are going to open a competition for a train tunnel down near Zadar about three kilometers long, I think we should open the issue of this train connection of Istria with the motherland and not that this traffic is taking place across the neighbouring Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92902	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92903	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Someone shut me out. Comrade Cain! So I agree with testing on drugs yes, but that's not the answer to the problem you started talking about. Namely, the solution is to prevent addiction. I hope you agree, and that's the problem with this rebalance. See how you plan to single out for extracurricular activities of pupils in primary and secondary schools. How do we intend to get them off the street? How much more money do we intend for these tasks towards young people? How do you help their teachers to realize these extracurricular programs? Take a look at the budget and you'll see. And here you'll find a little growth maybe. But the increase that is proportional to the increase in the budget, what the colleague had just corrected, so I couldn't say, which is much lower than the rise in the budget itself, the rate of the growth of the budget. The government thus sends us a clear message as to what they think of these segments that you and I have been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92904	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92905	Dear Mr. Doric! I really have to admit when drugs are due, I don't know much about this problem, but like every parent in this House, I'm so afraid that our children just wouldn't get hurt. We all agree it's a huge problem. I repeat, eight young people, when I read this article in the "New List" I was simply horrified, in the last two months it died in Rijeka or near Rijeka. I also spoke to the Istrian County people this morning. They say from the beginning of the year to the present two, it is possible to expect that by the end of the year someone else will be killed. We've got a situation where we've got about one-fifth or one-quarter of our people dying on our roads. I know it's such a serious question that it primarily needs to be dealt with clearly by parents experts. But I think, if we can help in some way by providing certain resources and maybe that approach to testing would help us do everything we need to do to secure the funds and thus try to solve our parents at least "one care". And to get one extra trust in the institutions they send kids to. I mean, I'm saying it from the heart, I'm not saying it like someone who's had that problem in the family, but I'm afraid that this problem can hit anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92906	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Bozidar Pankretic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Zlatko Koračević. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. The word has a distinguished representative, Nikola Vuljanić. He's in the hall, and he's entitled to his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92907	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There are already a lot of arguments divided around the budget here, and you can finally see by the number of people present that people have mostly exhausted what they intend to say. However, I think we should stress a few more aspects. It is very commendable that the budget is growing, it is very commendable that it is growing by increasing the income of the state. But it's not commendable when it's based on a system that would, and I think at this point it's a resonance. Growth in gross social product in the first quarter is close to 7% or 7%, and this is what projections are done by the end of the year. We all know it's unrealistic. We all know that it doesn't really make sense, and that the next budget rebalancing somewhere in the fall if it comes to it, if the elections aren't actually going to put things back to some real limit of four to four and a half, maybe five percent of the real increase in gross social product. So these 5 billion and a little more money that's now appearing in the budget seems to me to be on flimsy feet, number one because of these assumptions. And number two because the increase in gross social product in the first quarter was well dictated by the increase in consumption. Something sold out, something divided into people, mostly pensioners. Then a lot went into consumption. There was a VAT growth, and it suddenly turned out to be a lot better for us. We're not doing much better. We've sold a piece of family property, we'll sell another piece of family property, but it won't last forever. Em's family property doesn't have unlimited assets and everything can't be sold, something has to stay in the house. So the entrance is dubious. Exit or consumption. I don't know if you might have looked at the amendments to the budget, when the budget for this year is there by the end of last year. These amendments correspond well with this column of growth in the current budget rebalancing. So the government accepted the amendments to the opposition, at the end of the ballad one good part, at least in the general paragraphs, not in the detailed division but in the general paragraphs yes. It didn't take that whole circus. If we were a little realistic the moment the amendments were made to the budget and it was seen that they made sense, so the government that really cares about the well-being of this country would accept such amendments, not after a year, not a year, but, well, eight months have calculated into some kind of increase that might be, maybe not going to be. I would also like to say something about the way we decide on this budget. The fact that there are twenty, twenty-five MPs here is also a good part of it because people didn't have time to read it and even less to study it. My colleague Doric said how many pages it was. I didn't add them up and multiply them, but the number is pretty impressive anyway. It's impossible for a man to get a full picture of it. We who decided to discuss it, we decided because we took one segment and tried to look at the whole picture in that segment, plus this sumptuous part where the government is directing the existing and the additional, future kind of funds. I would like to say a few words about a part of the budget that seems crucial to me, it always seemed crucial, perhaps because I'm a little bit professionally deformed, but also because of what the Irish minister told us a few years ago when he visited the Republic of Croatia, so the Croatian leaders asked him how you did that Irish miracle, what you did. So says we first decided, and then we invested extremely large in education, and then we thought a little bit more, and we invested in education, and eventually we invested more in education. They figured out what the knowledge society meant, figured out where this globalized world was going. We take it relatively slowly. In fact, education funds have increased by around 209 million kuna according to this budget rebalancing which is commendable, however, it is still below the general increase in funds in the budget. That's about a percentage half. But we need to see where those funds go. Of the 209 million kuna increases 103 million kuna goes to primary schools of 90% for salaries, for salary increases. 45 million of these 209 million go to high school also to raise salaries. With 10 million more funding, the carriage of students is equally commendable and is a nice pre-election move of this government and I don't think there's a government that wouldn't use it to make something so popular, and good that it's done. 38 million goes to higher education surpluses also mainly for salary increases. In 16 letters and numbers, 16 million kuna goes for scientific and technological development, 10 million for institutes, for working in scientific institutes, and 80 million for subsidising textbooks for, I suppose, textbooks for first grade high school are what the government promised. So, all this together is commendable, all this is expensive but all this together on one side is a rag of the present terrible situation where a professor in high school earns four thousand kunas per chance at a level of a slightly better-paid waitress in a slightly better Zagreb coffee shop, of course without tips. And the situation where schools and colleges are mostly on the verge of survival. It is unclear whether the next month will be able to pay the costs or not. That, therefore, the government's moves in this segment cover the situation and make it a little more resourceful before the elections, which is equally commendable, the government is trying to win that part of the electoral body, but since development, from the real entry into the knowledge society in these moves there is absolutely nothing. A similar situation is in health care. A total increase of a billion and I think 200 million kuna, I think, is going to the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, so to cover the costs and debts that have been incurred so far. The situation will calm down a little if these money actually comes, if the budget is achieved, the situation will settle down a little bit, there won't be as many objections as there have been so far, but they won't get rid of anything. And I see my time is running out. Just one more thing the government has promised to do right in this budget rebalancing, which is to provide funds for the implementation of our decision to activate the ZERP in the beginning of next year. For wholesalers, the government has allocated 2 million kunas, for the fishing fleet a subsidy of 25 million kuna and for the coast guard, 24 million kuna. Now think of what will be done and how much we will now be able to fight the smugglers and the Italian fishermen and other European fishermen equally when we proudly declare our ZERP and say it is now ours. With that money, he won't be able to do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92908	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92909	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct two allegations from my colleague Vuljanic. First of all, I don't know how to correct his statement that the rebalancing was done on principle which would make it on the basis of the first five months. He wasn't just made on the basis of the first five months, he was also done based on projections but of course the projections should take the base of the achievement so far because I really don't see any other way in which some future can be planned but also by analysing what was in the past. And the next thing I want to fix is his statement that this increase in consumption is based on a statement that the value added tax is growing. If you are looking at page 4 of this table then you will see that of those significant sources of VAT is growing much less than taxes and income tax and profit tax growth. Therefore, it cannot stand for this statement of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92910	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92911	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague said what my colleague Jelkovac said was made by the system "who would, I don't know exactly what it would mean to "who would" but I know that the rebalancing was done on the basis of accurate indicators and that income tax is higher by 244 million kuna, income from profit tax for 700 million kuna, etc., then that in 2007, business revenues are 3 billion and 496,9 million kunas are lower than expenditure. Then he said we don't need this circus, it can't be called a circus, it's a regular procedure of budget rebalance that's done at all levels and units of local self-government still. Then, that the situation in health care, that nothing was done with health care, that the situation would settle down a little bit and it would be done because all claims would be settled. And that's the first time all the claims have been settled without any additional borrowing, which has not been the case so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92912	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic. ... In a row. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm a gentleman but in order.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92913	A colleague declares that the salary of high school professors is 4 thousand kuna. Well, I know the salary isn't big enough, but maybe the average salary in high school is 4,000 kuna, with maids, janitors, lodgers and the like. The salaries are still at least 1,000 kuna, and I can only tell you that in an elementary school that has lower salaries than high school is already an average of over 5000 kuna. So I don't want to deceive the public team before the high school unions say they signed contracts with the government and I say it's coming true again to your grief.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92914	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92915	Mr. Vice President, here's Agent Nikola Vuljanic said that the whole increase in income is that we sold family property which is not true at all. These increased revenues reflect a greater acceleration of economic activity, which has also increased, resulting in an increase in the flow of budgetary resources, and should also be said that this Ministry of Finance is also leading to a successful fight against the grey market, and this is also a contribution to these increased revenues.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92916	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Zvonimir Sabati. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Dragutin Lesar, he's not in the hall losing his right to debate. Pearl Perman, give up. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92917	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This morning, the prime minister mentioned an increase in budget revenues of as much as five billion and a reduction in deficits, noting its incentive and development. But it's hard to agree with that if you can't read this incentive and development from the budget items that are mostly under the common cap and from which it is then, from which government will share by who knows what criteria, who knows what dynamics and who knows which arches. Probably according to HDZ's pre-election needs! I managed to find only 11 activities and projects from Primorje-goranska and 7 from Istria County which can also be located in this budget. I remind you it's only about earlier commitments. So there's nothing from new investment and development projects. The entire piece of cake from this budget for these two counties can be reduced to about 400 million kuna, which is less than half of the total budget mass, and the rebalancing has not changed that state either. I wonder where regional development and decentralisation of the state is manifested. A whole series of projects remained uncovered. I will point out only the Rijeka Airport and the Rijeka bypass, i.e. the Orehovica - Diracije, which is a joint of the Rijeka highway – Zagreb and the Rupa highway – Rijeka – Žuta Lokva on which 4 viaducts were built from nowhere without any indication of whether or not it will be completed. And the tourist season has begun and I am creeping out at the thought of last year's traffic collapses on the bypass and in the center of the city of Rijeka. It should also be remembered that a whole series of projects and capital investments in these two counties that we have pointed to in our amendments when adopting the budget for this year, which are not in any way taken into account even though they are quite justified and for which there is no lip in this rebalancing. They refer to the rehabilitation and upgrade of the port infrastructure facilities in Cres, Lošinj, Krk, Rab, Jablanc, Umag and Pula, Rijeka airport, Grobnik and Rab, road in the Primorje-Gorski County, environmental facilities, cultural, school and health facilities in Rijeka, Pula, Kastav, Matulji, Delnice, Rab, Pazin. On the contrary, about six billion kunas were reduced to twenty budget items from which no one knows how much it belongs. It is about decentralised functions, regional development, shipbuilding and shipbuilding, transport, tourism, education, health care and social care. I want to take a special look at the head of sports at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. For the programmes, for the purposes of the public needs programme in sport, i.e. the Croatian Olympic Committee, about 72 million kuna is estimated to be three million less than in 2005, and for 2006, at least in the context of the budget, the amount of original budgets for sport and how much money from games are fortunate and it has been evident that they have been at the level of 30 million kuna for seven years. Now even in the budget's explanation, it doesn't say how much of the budget is really set aside for sport. Let us remember that for 2006 approximately the same amount was planned, which was reduced by nearly 10 million by half last year. Since this proposal is about the same as this year, it is clear that investments in sport have again been drastically reduced. Thus, even the new Sport Act cannot help us to improve the situation especially when it is known that a whole series of very significant sublegal implementing acts have not been adopted of which are the most important National Sport Programme, and the reduction of the items of the National Sports Council to 46% of the plan and the redesigning of sports clubs to 60% alone speaks to itself about the real intentions of the Government and the competent ministry in terms of the reviving of the Sport Act. I don't know why projects to rebuild and build sports facilities, prevent violence in sports schools, encourage sports in kindergartens and dormitories, sports programmes to prevent addiction and standards for the construction of sports facilities are abandoned. For promotional gender equality programmes in sport, the amount of 200,000 was reduced by this rebalancing to 100,000, the development of sport on islands remained at a symbolic level of £200,000, and the promotion of Olympic sport on Bellolasica was reduced from 9 and a half million from last year to 8, and by this rebalancing to 2.7 million. For the Croatian Couple, the Olympic Committee is projected two million less than last year. In the Ministry of Health and Social Care, I would like to remind you that in the framework of the anti-HIV infection programme, AIDS, HIV and AIDS education projects are abandoned in secondary schools, access to testing and consultations on HIV and AIDS, psycho-social assistance for HIV and AIDS patients, as well as a reduction of risk management in the risk population. The question is why when the risk of this severe disease is growing in society, and given the number of addicts and risk groups. For all these reasons, I cannot give my support to this rebalancing process, and given the current practice of budgeting, I have not submitted amendments to the projects mentioned in the Primorian and Istrian County, but only two amendments relating to the field of sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92918	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92919	Mr. Vice President, colleague Perman said I quote, "The government will split the money according to who knows what criteria and who knows what dynamics." I think that needs to be fixed because a statement like that can't stand. It is known how money is distributed, or distributed, and what dynamics. The money shall be allocated in accordance with the positions in the budget which I hope will adopt tomorrow by this House, and by dynamics in accordance with the budgeting by the end of the financial year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92920	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92921	A colleague was injured by Article 209. The Rules of Procedure for correcting my incorrect claim that is not incorrect at all. I didn't claim that the government would share, I asked myself as a question to which arches and in what way it would... Therefore, I have not established anything that he should correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92922	But I can't be the judge who will judge which claim is correct, because I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92923	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. It's not true that investments in sports have fallen drastically. The new Sport Act has reached assumptions to encourage the development of top sports and professional athletes. In the 2006 budget, 124.4 million kuna was allocated to sport, which is 59% higher than in 2003, and now additional allocations for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports are also increasing the item that you say the investment for sport has dropped drastically.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92924	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92925	Well, I have to look back on this because this is really a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Namely, a colleague...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92926	Tell me, which article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92927	209. Namely, my colleague corrected my incorrect claim where I referred to the draw on sports which is not true because in these separations which are listed here in both the budget and the rebalancing, Croatia's lottery is included, that is, from games fortunate that earlier years were not the case. So she didn't correct my incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92928	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and since you're breaking the Rules of Procedure next time, I'm giving you a heads-up. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92929	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's Agent Perman said that this budget rebalance was made according to the pre-election... Croatian democratic communities which is not true. This is a high-quality and realistic budget that increases increased revenue and invests in further investment in balanced regional development in the knowledge of excellence, is set out for the system of support for farmers, fishermen and Croatian villages, the construction of a social fair society, and I think it should be a programme of all parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92930	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92931	Vice President, here's a colleague who said that for the prevention of HIV and all these other items, they were reduced, which is not true. If you look nice here that the items are not either of them are reduced but are left at the same level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92932	Thank you. Let's move on. The word has an esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92933	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. I'll just take a brief look at the budget rebalance for 2007 where budget revenues are higher by 5 billion kuna. We are witnessing that in the means of public communication, we have seen the electronic media positive response of professional circles, but also positive response to the highest public in view of the effects of this government over the past three and a half years. This is certainly the result of the economic and social policy implemented by the government during this term of office. I would just like to point out what has already been proposed, as well as by several colleagues and colleagues. I think that these data are inevitable, so the real growth of gross domestic product is 7%, the deficit is 2.6%, and what is often talked about today is the issue of unemployment, or employment. It is evident that in 2006, the unemployment rate was 11.2% and according to the State Statistics Office, according to which it was registered at the Employment Office 16.6%. However, in 2007 the unemployment rate is now 10.6% and 15.9%, according to data from the Croatian Employment Institute. If we compare this data to 2001 and 2002 and 2003 respectively, it is obvious that new 80-85 thousand jobs have been opened and I will only mention that in the 4th month of this year, the total employee is a million and 470 thousand, meaning no effects of the season ahead of us and that we will surely be near or around cca million and 500 average employees during 2007. I will mention that in 2003, the number of employees at the level of the year was a million and three hundred and ninety-two thousand. I would also point out, however, that this budget rebalance has been dealing with a question that has been addressed for several years, 7-8 years is current in Croatia, it is a question of resolving the debt of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. What makes me a representative who comes from an area that is somewhat economically inferior, is a question of the even development of the whole of Croatia mainly of these parts, such as Dalmatia Zagora, the region of Cetinska krajina, the city of Sinj and so on. I believe that economically undeveloped areas, this government, absolutely through the budget, and mostly through state-owned public enterprises, is doing a lot of work, a lot of helping. We are witnessing the opening of new work zones, and I believe that incentives from the Ministry of Economy when it comes to working areas and incentives for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and the Regional Development Fund as well as the Ministry of Agriculture have been made significant and major shifts. However, inevitable, it certainly is the state-owned public enterprises that are inevitable, so I'll just mention that just the day before yesterday in Sinj, we had the opening of a new watership and reconstruction of a pump station covering 75 thousand people. This means the future of the entire Cetina region plus a good part of Dalmatia's Zagora and there, 5 other economic zones have been left on the water supply system. In other words, if we don't solve these fundamentals on infrastructure, then there's no economic development. And we just see that this government and the departments of power are doing it. I'd like to mention Croatian roads anyway. I can say that these days are beginning, these days will be a competition for reconstruction of two state roads, one that connects Sinj with Muc and the other Sinj with Vagna, that is the border towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I think that along the fast road of Sinj-Split there are new prospects for development, for the development of the Cetina landscape, and I think that's how it works in other areas of Dalmatia Zagora. In other words, people need to stay, be well connected, be connected, and address the issue of thanks to God and energy. In any case, when it comes to the development of the economy that is being imposed today as one of the priorities of this Croatian government but also of all governments so far, I believe it is necessary to establish and this Croatian government has established a partnership, meaning government, entrepreneurs and units of local self-government. The prerequisite for that is certainly... and it is obvious that this Croatian government knows that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92934	Thank you. Replica is the esteemed deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92935	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, my colleague Bitunjac has opened a very interesting topic that is actually led to a uniform or equal development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. And in this respect we still need to pull one fine difference you know which at first glance is semantic or formal, is actually very, very content. It's a question of equal approach. It can mean equal recognition for, same recognition for the same abilities, and another question is when it comes to equal start. Now an equal start should be produced, conditions should be created that, in equal opportunities, all corners of the Republic of Croatia can move in development. The fact that we didn't want it, and hopefully we could have avoided a lot of things if it hadn't been for great Serbian aggression, that there was no war, that there was no destruction, that there wasn't all that was produced and produced and produced and produced and produced in part from poor conversion and privatisation, but unfortunately, the finding that, on the basis of all these things, had to be withdrawn that certain parts of the Republic of Croatia were in economic, infrastructure situation at an unequal start. And here is the issue of not rebalancing but of the concept and strategy of the development of the Republic of Croatia, and the budget should be the instrument of its realization, in fact, how to create an equal start for all of our areas and all of our regions so that they can develop and at the same time make a total contribution to the development of the Republic of Croatia. That's the point of things. I agree when you... It's for Sinjska krajina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when you look at the whole thing, then the problem is much, much more serious than the question of equality itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92936	Replication response Replication response. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92937	Thank you, thank you very much. Well, in principle, colleague Arlovic, I only agree that every part of Croatia should be in place, starting with the same starting points. But we must also be aware of the legacy that has existed for decades, which is present, and I believe that precisely with economic policy, through a policy of even development, this government in solving primarily municipal and other infrastructures creates a prerequisite that those who today are inferior, those who have to go from their fields, I have illustrated only Sinj and Ceti. So I could talk about the entire Dalmatian Zagora or maybe I don't know about some other parts of Croatia, but since I come from Sinj then I wanted to illustrate it, but I think the government is opening up, that this government is opening new perspectives for these people, for these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92938	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vesna Škare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92939	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, it seems to me that the purpose of this 2007 budget rebalancing is how do voters like it and not how to ensure the country's development? This last rebalancing of the government is significant. Namely, a parallel can be made with three previous rebalancings, and they are such that every rebalance has lifted dust, but not many machines or we can compare it with the car moved from the site. You can see when you compare all three rebalancing that there was too much vertigo, financial wandering,... and that it is appropriate to ask whether there is even a pilot on board, or whether there is a government of an economic strategist who would know how to handle the command stick and the proper distribution of the money that the Minister of Finance raises to me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would, of course, like to congratulate on these 5 billion kunas collected in the budget, but as I said, it is not enough to be an accountant of a state treasury or a money collector who controls the entrance and exit of money than it should really be an economic strategist who, for example, instead of raising money for the unemployed, will invest those money in reducing the unemployed or job creation. This is the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation, in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. That's what an economic strategist would do. So this is an obvious indication that this is a pure electoral rebalancing. I'm not going to say now what the budget rebalance was in 2004. He was in a sign of an increase in income from HT dividends and excise duties. At the time, the finance minister said it would reduce huge external debt, while the external debt grew to a frightening EUR 7.1 billion. It's almost, like, almost 2/3 of the debt it has today, an external debt that Serbia has. Scary. The budget rebalance in 2005 was a little depressing. The minister then announced a poor VAT and excise charge. Also, the most money went to pensions, salaries, and housing savings, and then the government became very concerned with the right that employment policy did not bring good results. At that time, the same economy did not receive any special stimuli by redistribution. The 2006 budget rebalance, the goal of the rebalancing, as the minister then announced, was to ensure macroeconomic stability, higher economic growth rates, a higher standard of living for citizens, and then said the goal was to reduce external debt. And after the rebalancing of the money, they got more of the same users that got it this year, but again in the economic field they didn't see much. And now where are these positive trends? Of course there are, and are they so significant that they should be waved with them in such a glorious way? I've already said several times today how much external debt has grown. It has grown not only externally, but internally, that there has been an increase in the number of non-equity companies. It's yesterday, for example. the Raifaisen bank analysts said that during May, there was a deterioration in the foreign trade movement, significant and stronger growth in imports from exports was recorded at year-on-year. According to data from the State Statistics Office, the value of exported goods amounted to around 760m euros, e.g. Compared to May 2006, there was an increase of 8.1%, but at the same time in Croatia there were imports of goods of a total value of 734 million euros, which represents the most recorded value of imports. And now I could quote those movements in a row, generate a deficit in the trade rate of over 973m euros, representing an annual growth of as much as 21.1%. The rapid growth of imports from exports despite a significant larger base of influence on the reduction of the coverage of imports by only 43.9%. And they're indicators. We can be angry with them, but they're inexorable. The liquidity of the health system is also the worst in the last 15 years. Mandatory hospitals have never been higher, payment deadlines have never been longer and it's really good that it's finally decided now, and there have been such attempts before, however unsuccessfully to resolve most of the debt. However, the majority of the debt is resolved, but the debt of health will not be resolved to the end. And now let me say something about the Justice Department's budget. That now reminds me of MP Pero Kovacevic. The Justice Department received 74 million kuna in total. The ministry itself received 22 million kunas, or 20 million kunas, on a total of three, four, three, four. Other unremarked financial expenditures. It's a brand-new concept. A brand-new concept that wasn't in the budget. The question arises why was it introduced? That's a huge 20 million-dollar item, and what's the money going to be spent on? Please respond. ... Wait a minute. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Item 05 capital projects. On the capital projects of the Square of Justice 629154, a conto 4511 additional investment on construction buildings was provided, 32 million 100 million were secured. The item is now increasing by 11 million kuna, while at the same time 11 million kuna is being removed from the court building in Osijek. What's this about? I'm asking you a question about why you're taking down 11 million kuna to the Ossetian court? It's a court that died in the war, which is extremely well working under difficult conditions. This morning, the minister, former Minister Hebrang, spoke of sensitivity to war. Well, I don't see any sensitivity here to war and war injuries and war casualties and war conditions. With what right do you move 11 million kunas from the Osijek court to add to a Split court that has received quite enough money? So the contractual obligation was $39 million with the company "Constructor". Ten million kunas have been spent. There are now 11 million kunas added. And you know why it was added? For extracurricular work. So I, my dear minister, wonder how so many extra-consumption works in a $11 million court building? I don't know that at all, because this was arranged after my term of office. I'd take care of that, and I wouldn't allow 11 million kuna extracurricular work. Therefore, Ministers who take care of the entry and exit of finance answer this question, why did the company "Constructor" receive 11 million kuna for extra-cost work after signing the contract, after the public tender has been completed, after the amount of HRK 39 million has been agreed for building the building? I think with this, I know that the company "Constructor" is a great contractor of the work of this government, even when the minister of justice forgives his debts in Zadar, but the fact is that 11 million kunas can't be removed from one court, not finish the building, not end up in Osijek anything, but a dead cold transfer to Split that has already received enough money and with this existing money can be all over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92940	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92941	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague with a lot of indignation, she said that this government doesn't provide conditions for opening new jobs, and I'm just saying the opposite. Yes, just by building, by equipping new work zones, by investing in highways, bus pipelines, because investors won't come to you unless the work zones are communally equipped. We're just opening jobs to, we have to illustrate it because our entrepreneurs, our craftsmen, can't find the workers anymore, and there's a problem, a big one, because everyone's just busy, and to see it best by budget I'll tell you. The Holy Sunday two years ago had a budget of 44 million, in the past 67, and now 105 million kuna. So investment has paid off not only in jobs but also in local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92942	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92943	Mr. Vice-President, the esteemed representative said this rebalancing is a fruit of the financial wanderings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to commend and congratulate the government at some point on the 5 billion kuna of the revenue achieved. In that sense, however, she may have also had to give her discussion later on in the praise of those five billion kunas of income. I will repeat only the reasons for these five billion. First of all, from a clear fiscal policy, from a discipline on the collection of all taxes and revenues that add to the state without new tax burdens, with good indicators of both macroeconomic, economic and agricultural. I think that's the basic basis for this rebalancing and these five billion kunas. And I think it would be good for my colleague to consider her statements, given my example in one of the shows.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92944	Don't argue under an inaccuracy institute. The distinguished representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt has the right to say whatever he wants, of course within the limits of his conduct in this House. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92945	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I think my colleague has been injured by Article 209. Rules of Procedure. Namely, he did not correct the incorrect assumption. I didn't say what he said at all. I commended the minister for having managed to raise 5 million kunas, but I did not look back on economic wanderings in this budget but on economic wandering in four years. And plus, a fellow MP treats some of his frustrations because of statements I made on a show about his case, Rabbit. I don't think that's the subject of this debate and that he can't abuse the Rules of Procedure in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92946	Look, you have now abused the Rules of Procedure, but your colleague, Bagaric, felt that you have cited an allegation that is not right in him. Well, we have said this a hundred times, which we are chairing, we cannot judge whether it is incorrect or correct, and counterpart Bagaric was entitled to the institute to correct the incorrect allegations on your finding that this rebalance of the budget is the result of the wandering of this government. ... And it's hard to put us in the position of the judge, is it correct or incorrect, and I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been hurt. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92947	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt has presented a whole series of incorrect allegations, and allow me to correct only one of them. She said that this budget rebalancing was made for the sake of, that the government had made it for the election to court citizens and the people of the Republic of Croatia which, of course, is not true. We all know that at this point the Croatian economy is doing better, that the institutions of the government are making better payments, that the government is very responsible, that it has estimated that there will be higher incomes and that it is subsidising all the costs incurred by its predecessors and in health care and that it has allowed the functioning of health care and that it has allocated certain resources for agriculture and subsidies in agriculture and everything else. In my opinion, therefore, a normal work and normally responsible attitude of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards citizens who are users and bonds of the creation of this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92948	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92949	Vice President, I was going to fix two things. First, this is a statement already made by Mr. Shirac, that it's a clean electoral rebalancing, the same argument he made, so I won't repeat it. And the other thing, counterpart Skare Ozbolt said that this government has no economic strategy and that an economic strategist would consider how to hire these people, so precisely the economic strategists of this government and think about it, but I will remind you of the amounts already put into the original budget for economic zones to encourage entrepreneurship in one year more than in the four-year term of the previous government. 160 million kuna to the Employment Service to encourage the employment of certain categories and retraining, and that is proof that this government has quite a pilot on board.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92950	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's representative Vesna Scare Ozbolt said that foreign debt is terrifying which is not true. The debt per loan is 100 billion, and the savings of citizens is 171 billion and 300 million kuna plus a large investment in shares. However, I would like to say one more thing, and I should like to read the magazine "Banka" under the title "Enough Is False" where it is said that the credit rating of Croatia is getting better and this is what it says, I quote: "It is a clear sign that foreign creditors assess that Croatia is still a solid debtor, a country which can be expected to be able to regulate its own obligations neatly at the pace at which they are reaching." Therefore, foreign debt is not scary.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92952	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Luggage.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92953	Here's a quick two, one a political one, and the other a professional one. First politically. Rebalance for the election is absolutely not true. It is conditioned by the increase in income and on the other hand is conditioned by spending particularly on health, and as this health care serves both young people and pensioners and colleagues, it may also vote for HDZ. And second question, political and second question. The issue of continuous repetition of the enormous debt and the unacceptable and cowardly external debt is constantly alluding to the state. Once again I am correcting that it is not true, the debt of the state falls. It's growing in debt, so-called. groups of others and groups of banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92954	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92955	Here's the esteemed Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you're right, it's true that this budget is as I said in my own personal, electoral presentation. That, on the one hand, we have more income than five billion kuna, on the other hand, funds for the Osijek court building and which is a valid explanation. Increased income and then taken to Osijek. Why? It's simple, well, there's HSP and HSSP in Osijek. It's a clear situation. It's given in Split... There's nothing to talk about. [[You don't understand.]] It's a simple thing. And you're right about the debt. Look, President Sanader as an agent said that the debt of citizens is the same debt of the state, we saw it on TV shows. Therefore, the debt will grow by estimates of as much as $50 billion, as Kulic said nicely, and what Letica was saying today. So we're falling into a debt slave relationship, and now we're talking about some other situations. So the budget is like such an electoral one, it's good that the extra income, if it wasn't a lack of income then everything where HDZ doesn't have power wouldn't, then all these projects would be destroyed, but they'd just put themselves where HDZ has power. You're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92956	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92957	The answer to the replica is only one. The numbers are absolutely inexorable, like it or not. When exports are bigger than imports and the figures clearly say what they are and these are numbers from yesterday, and that's exactly from the magazine "the Bank," then I don't know who needs to prove anything else. We can't act like billionaires here on a sinking Titanic. 21.5 billion euros was due in 2004, foreign debt, now 29 billion. I don't know what else to prove that debt is growing, not that it's falling.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92958	Thank you. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92959	Look! Unlike those who like to talk like this that perceptive someone likes it, I'll talk about the facts. First. I mean, extremely incorrectly speaking for a court in Osijek. The Court of Justice in Osijek has not yet begun to build for the reason that the tender has been cancelled, a new tender has been opened and there are four and a half million kunas left in that position, as we believe when the competition is over that will be enough by the end of the year. Another thing about the court in Split. It's very interesting when you were a minister that you advocated. It's not just about the court, it's about the effort of justice. And as far as outside of the cost of work, three million kunas are firearms. It's a regulation that came out during the construction, and it had to be built on the basis of that law. Six million kunas you have 30 items and you can always get them to see which items they are. But talk about external debt, Mrs. Vesna Scare Ozbolt! It never occurred to anyone in their mind to say that it would reduce external debt for reasons that as long as you have a deficit, you can't talk about a debt reduction. But you have some parameters, but these parameters are understood by economists and not by those who are not economists. And that's that you're going to slow down the growth of external debt and it's done. It's another thing. The share of public debt has dropped from 33% to 21%. So the government's policy of borrowing on the domestic market has contributed to the reduction of external debt. Also, fiscal policy has contributed to the reduction of deficits. To talk about increasing the debt of the state, so why are we going to the deficit 2.6% than we want to reduce the debt needs with that. So the share of public debt, the share of the central state and the share of the general government fell for the first time in 2006 from 49% to 47% in the gross domestic product. And these are facts that no one can bring down. Just as no one can bring down that the economic growth of 7% did not come because of the worse results and never agree with you, Croatia is not Titanic, and that is what everyone who says insults all Croatian and Croatian citizens. Croatia does not sink, Croatia is taking firm steps forward. Some people don't like it, but that's their problem. But the fact that we have reduced unemployment today, that we have increased employment, that we have economic growth with 7%, that neither income is this much higher by chance. And an increase of 15% is only the result of structural reforms in economic activities and measures taken to combat the grey economy. And no one can deny it. That's what all the world's economic analysts have admitted to us. We have been admitted, it will not be recognised by some who have opened associations in Croatia and talk about how taxes should be paid in Croatia and do not pay taxes in Croatia alone. We do not need such advisers in Croatia. So Croatia ended up standing by arrangement with the IMF after 12 years for the first time. Croatia signed a PAL2 programme with the World Bank a month ago based on structural reforms it has implemented. Well, aren't all those people who finished hardware and some other universities and doctored at those universities stupid, know nothing and let Croatia finish standing by arrangement? Are all people in international financial institutions equally illiterate and know nothing when they lend loans to Croatia under these conditions... They give? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you think that the City of Zagreb, with which they are proud and learn about the issue of 300 million bonds in London, would receive bonds issued under such conditions that the economic situation and state in general in Croatia is not what it is? Well, someone wouldn't give Zagreb as a separate unit. The city of Zagreb is an integral part of the Republic of Croatia. Credit rating has the Republic of Croatia, not the City of Zagreb. And for some, it has to be clear. I know you can call yourself a collector and an accountant. That's your problem. However, I did what I wanted and what I said at the beginning of this mandate and what the Prime Minister and this government said first and foremost, that we would form state finances, we did. There's a Treasury today and there's an account. And that is why we should be known as the former finance minister that the finance minister is not sifting and digging into the accounts of certain ministries but rather ministers, resolution ministers and their financial assistants. But that just proves how much work you've been doing in your ministry. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92960	Correction of the incorrect allegation of the distinguished representative Vesna Škara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92961	Well, I hope we don't take offense, but I've done a very good job, which the citizens really appreciate. Namely, I got buildings in Split unlike you who are, you weren't able to do it yourself. And I'm asking you to listen to me now. Eleven million kunas out of cost. This is a job for the State's Attorney's office, if not the Ministry of Finance. Three million kunas for some kind of counter-invasion project, a door, and I don't know what, we can say they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92962	Your Honor! Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92963	However, six million kunas higher, the finance ministers begin to deal with finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92964	You can't debate under the institute of correcting an incorrect quote...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92965	And not to be, please nice...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92966	The minister wasn't talking about this...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92967	It is incorrect, it is a completely incorrect allegation that the minister said there were only four million kunas in the County Court in Osijek. ... At K629225, there were 13 million kunas in the County Court of Osijek. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The 11 million kuna was removed from the Osijek court and transferred to the Split court. Why was it transferred?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92968	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92969	Because you're a company that's from the White Manastir that didn't pass the security check you denied the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92970	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. Time's up. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92971	Please don't twist the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92972	The word has the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92973	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92974	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92975	Thank you very much. I just wanted to hear whose defeat was, I didn't understand what my colleague said. So far, I think it's the other way around. Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Well on the agenda is one of the most optimistic topics in the last 15 years, 18 years of the Croatian State. For the first time, the budget rebalance for such a single quality that I was convinced that the entire Parliament would welcome this report with applause, regardless of political orientation, so I couldn't believe that, for example, on the Prime Minister's report, there were no potential prime ministers who were seen in the future, there was no former Deputy Prime Minister for the Economy, there was no former Finance Minister, so I'm not clear, they were probably not informed of the agenda. So he would beg the parliamentary services that the second time the budget rebalance informs them that they come and contribute to this quality debate. Or maybe it's another thing that Minister Shuker mentioned. Someone would like Croatia to be a Titanic. Unfortunately for them, Croatia is not a Titanic but a ship that is safely sailing, but on which ship there are those who would like the lifeboats to be activated. These boats Croatia does not need and will not need them if it goes this way with the state budget ahead of us. Some said this government was lucky the state budget was good because it was lucky, 7% of GDP grew because it was lucky because it was warm and mild in winter. So I analyzed it. It was much warmer in winter during the last coalition government, by 0.8 degrees it was warmer on average than this one. And in this government it is warmer but only around the heart. As for the elements of the increase in gross national income, the figures are inexorable. The figures came because this government is doing almost four years and it does it creatively because it knows what it wants, it doesn't interfere with the economy, it creates conditions for the development of the economy, it creates the first positive atmosphere for entrepreneurs, it removes barriers, it simplifies laws, it enables foreign capital to come because it first rises to over 2 billion dollars a year, invests in entrepreneurial zones in infrastructure. Therefore, it indirectly creates a field where entrepreneurship is then developed on the principle of market economy. And that's the knowledge of this government. One of the key assumptions for the development of entrepreneurship and the overall economy, and this is always pointed out by our Irish friends, is exactly the budget deficit. Prime Minister Sanader and Minister Schuker have been working intensively since day one, I have dared to say since our government's programme. One of the most important differences between this and the previous government is the maintenance of the government budget deficit. While they advocated and now, in the event of coming to power, they advocate a further deficit because they will finance their social and other programmes so far, they should listen to world experts and those who have such experiences as the Irish. They say the deficit of the state budget at as low levels as possible is one of the main drivers, one of the main engines for the development of the economy. This was shown at this time when the budget from 6.4% here in three years came to 2.6%, an absolute record in European countries over the past decades. And I look forward to the Ministry of Finance projection, the budget deficit in the next 0,0% term. How did that happen? With great work, financial discipline, the abolition of the grey economy, the strict attitude of the finance minister in terms of expenditure, especially unnecessary and repeated expenditures, as well as one firm political stance that has all been defended. And when we look at it, then it makes sense that the incomes and expenses of today's rebalancing are as good as they are. What does the income analysis say? Total tax and tax revenues increased by 9.9%. Tax on profit a few dozen percent, I couldn't even calculate, VAT 9.4%, excise duty 5.2%. The contributions went up 9.6%, something more for health care, a little less for retirement insurance. So, all sources of income are more quality and this is the consequence of precisely the elements I was talking about and especially when it comes to taxes resulting from the creation of order in financial business and in particular the fight against the gray economy. However, a quality budget can also be seen in expenditures. These expenditures were always less than income in this government, always being careful not to make a imbalance there. And this time, when you compare incomes and expenses, you see that this situation is repeated. And these expenditures are very high-quality. The increase in expenditure is currently focused on Croatia's development. So you're going to see the biggest increase except for the health care that I'm going to say something about at the end of the day in science and higher education. And when you read these items then you must rejoice regardless of whether the position or opposition is again initiated by 291 million in the most important strategic Croatian base project, which is the development of science and higher education. The primary school received 103 million kuna. I commend that and it was about national minorities. The education of national minorities has received an additional 7.5 million kuna, proving not only the government's positive economic direction but also a positive direction towards national minorities. High school got 44 million, of which 39 million goes to raise wages, we know what our secondary and primary schools pay is. Higher education has also not forgotten 36.5 new million kunas. And I'm not talking about a big 80 million kuna project called financing textbooks for primary and lower secondary schools. So when we see where the extra money goes, then we see that it's like a snowball that's going to give birth to new development. And that's the characteristic of this budget. As regards the economy of the new 197 million kuna, all those who say it is under-initiated, so this is just a new supplement, a new financial injection of which for entrepreneurship of more than 80 million kunas, the Regional Development Fund 80 million kunas, of which directly for small and medium-sized enterprises 30 million kunas, etc. Of course, the increase of the agricultural item by 270 million kuna and not to count on it. So, one development budget that will certainly show very quickly that this government's attitude in terms of spending, and the collection and spending of budgets is correct. And finally, a billion and 100 million to cover the deficit more than commendable. And now I'd like to say something about the largest expenditure item in this rebalancing and that's health care. Clearly, from Minister Shuker, everyone is angry at the health care. And we who are in some way involved in creating this policy more or less because health care is a bottomless bag in all countries of the world, and so is Croatia. And today, around 17 billion kunas from the budget are indeed a huge burden that will be difficult to maintain. But we must say that we have done something in this term. We introduced in this mandate, I say, because it was completely abolished for the first time the income and expenditure records and analytical records and the analysis of income and business of each institution, each subject. After a difficult three years and a little more habitation of the new system, we today are proud to say that at the level of hospital health care that has always been a great rock of interference in the spending items for the first time we have a business that is in accordance with the law. Why do I say it with the law? Because it is a budgetary user and it must not have expenditures higher than income under the Budget Law. And today we can proudly say that when it comes to clinical hospitals all but one, it is unfortunately the Clinical Hospital Osijek and we will have special conversations with them, all of them have been brought to a maximum of 4% of the higher income expenditure. And when everything is summed up, then they have 13% higher income expenses, 13% less expenditure, sorry. For the first time, expenditures are less than revenue, of course by one part and due to an increase in the budget but mostly to the rationalisation of business. As far as general hospitals are concerned, for the first time the total obligations were less than 11% since the previous year, so 11% were reduced total liabilities compared to last year, which means that slowly these managements, and the hospital administrations are learning how to manage the hospital. Unfortunately, there are six black exceptions. The Dubrovnik General Hospital is headed. In one year, the Dubrovnik General Hospital increased its total obligations by 36%. It's an example of how you can't do business. So, let's say, live supplies increased by 380 percent in one year, material expenditure by over 600 percent. Hospital management in Dubrovnik, run by former health minister Andro Vlahusic, has shown that it must not be managed in health care because that money is not directed towards the patient. Those hospitals that are in line with business also have the best health and professional results. The number of their services is on the rise, the quality of services is high, and the financial result becomes positive. So, Minister Schucker, I don't think you're in vain of this money, that he didn't get into a bottle with a hollow bottom, but that the bottom was patched up, and that's why I congratulate you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92976	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92977	Mr. Vice President, here I join the debate and the honourable representative of Hebrang and I stress and think that this should be repeated and clearly said that all those strategies based on the development of Croatia are very dangerous and risky through the increased deficit of the state budget. We had opportunities a few years ago from the main economic strategists that we hear today hearing such a strategy very dangerous, very risky, I would say very harmful. There is no alternative to that strategy based on increased investment in science, research and development. The Lisbon strategy does not without reason highlight the foundation of long-term sustainable development that guarantees Europe long-term competitiveness in the modern globalised world can be generated and based on stronger integration of industry with scientific institutions, increasing investment in science, research and high technology that must be made available to as much as possible, important economic operators in the Republic of Croatia, and in particular to medium and small enterprises, because their growth based on increased investment in science, research and development, which is based on more quality cooperation with development, scientific, high school institutions can guarantee long-term only sustainable development and growth, long-term competitiveness, and yet I stress all of those delusions and strategies on so-called "the" strategy. The development that would be based solely on increasing the deficits of the state budget is very harmful and dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92978	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92979	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague, Cosic, has just hit the core of the problem. It is known in the analysis of the results of the success of those countries that have achieved an increase in gross national income of close to 10 or even 10, and some in the short term and more than that, annually, that the zero budget deficit rate is at second place of the cause. In the first place, they throw tax policy, second place they throw zero rate, or as close as they get to zero budget deficits. In third place, education and investment in science are at stake. Education and investment in science is never a bad investment. She always comes back a hundred times. What else should be added here is the capital market. In fact, we now have some projects on the market that we are offered for the next elections that would tax all forms of capital, which would crush our probex index on those values three, four years ago, which would force investors to go to neighbouring countries where neither capital nor capital is taxed dividends, so that the escape from Croatian capital would impoverish our society. And another maybe piece of information. They say it's how they fight the rich. That's not true. Investment in shares, investment in the stock market means investment in production, because the shares that are there receive new capital, bring new capital to their owners and thus create jobs. So social policy is also a policy of support and incentives and development of the capital market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92980	Thank you. Replica next respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92981	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Ćosic, in fact, found out a good part of what I wanted to talk about. I would only now one more part expand this examination by finding that in fact the construction of the Treasury and the introduction of order is one of the reasons that we have now, that we are now where we are and that we are actually and that we have reason to be satisfied. Therefore, I would like to confess here to the present Minister and Government, etc. But I would also take advantage of the occasion after such a brilliant presentation of fellow Hebrang, who spoke of all these indicators with which we can certainly be satisfied and happy, and in fact I would replicate it or ask him, so since we all know and have data, we have documents and we all know that it is as simple as it is and thank God that it is. Then what is the reason that during this morning's debate while television transmission was there were so many attacks on both the government and dissatisfaction with this budget especially because here also present colleague Pacek, who was also minister, also knows that this is the case. So what were the reasons that they showed such a level of dissatisfaction while television was going on? I really don't get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92982	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92983	Thank you very much. Well, a colleague, a respected colleague, has asked one of the key questions of the Croatian state. In other words, why are there drivers of progress, why are there those who spin pedals backwards, why are there those who row in the opposite direction? That's the question. The answer is very simple. If you don't have the strength to follow the lead in a competing and running group, you don't have the strength to step behind it, you don't have the strength to hold your breath behind his neck, then you act like you're gonna snap out so those viewers don't see that you're weaker. Now they're all over the place today! So they deliberately staged one of their downfalls, a moral, a fall in reputation because they criticized the records by thinking it would bring points to the audience. But the audience, I think, today during television broadcasts, saw who deliberately snapped and fell like that popcorn that was running in front of the coconut, and she said: “Listen, if I get away from it all. If I stop, you'll be careful how easy she is. I'd rather run and pee."
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92984	And respected representative Nevenka Majdenic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92985	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's Mr. Hebrang said and commended that the expenditures of this rebalancing are high quality, and I also think it's true, and I would particularly look back at and commend investment in regional development and that is with an additional 135 million funds. I am pleased that within these investments in regional development, there is also funding provided for a new government programme which wants to help local units in quality preparation to use pre-accession programmes to help the European Union and to prepare and implement public private partnership projects. In this respect, since projects financed by the European Union should also be provided for part of the budget, local low-income units often do not have space in their budgets for this and are certain that this will enable less developed local units to access EU assistance and will also provide funding for local units that do not have.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92986	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92987	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague has touched another major problem not only of the economic but also of the political development of Croatia, and this is decentralisation and this budget, as well as of all the budgets so far, really give local administration and self-government certain duties, burdens and tasks, and this is certainly a positive step. I just always like to warn that decentralisation needs to be looked after financially. This government has, on several occasions, decentralisationd money, as we remember by redistributing taxes, with control on the ground being the one that has to follow these moves. I'll repeat decentralisation from health care. Decentralised funds that reach and 400 million kunas per year are spent in a non-transparent way, investment achieves more prices than whether central or procurement in hospitals themselves, and debt comes to a long hospital that should be paid out of that part of the bill, which is why the changed law is also not respected. So decentralisation yes, but with strong control, otherwise we'll have a lot of unnecessary losses.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92988	Final review, Finance Minister Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92989	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here's a chance to thank you for the debate. I sincerely hope that no matter how anyone debated today, but that ultimately we all look forward to Croatia with these good results, and now I am just encouraged by the distinguished representative Dr. Hebrang about decentralisation and there has been a lot of talk here today. Just one piece of information for both the representatives and the Croatian public. Cities and municipalities were based on the amendment of the Law on the financing of local self-government units for the first five months revenueed 740 million kuna more than they did last year from income tax and profit, and this is a clear answer to all those who say the law is bad. There are several units of local self-government that have been worse, however, as I have already said at the end of the 9th month, an analysis will be made and will be paid to help certain projects from the current reserve. But this is also another confirmation that there is no need for a pre-law that will bring good politicalisation to everyone, because in the end I say for Croatia we all need to look forward to these good results. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92990	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please engage to determine the quorum. The quorum? 82 although many have not yet turned on the prospect. But we have a quorum. Let's move on. First vote. Proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, amending and supplementing the State budget for 2007. The debate on the text of the amendments and additions to the State budget has been completed. We are moving on to the applicant's statement and the vote on the amendments tabled. The amendments submitted shall be made by the Proposer. Only the applicant of the amendment and its speech cannot last longer than 2 minutes after the applicant has shown that the amendment has been made to the applicant. We have seven amendments submitted by MPs and one amendment from the government that was brought before the deadline, after the deadline. Representative Luka Bebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92992	I suggest, Mr. President, that, due to the extensive vote today, 40 points of the agenda are voted on by the raise of hands at all points of the amendment agenda because it is far faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92993	Thank you very much. Okay. Now we're going to vote first on whether to vote and discuss the government's amendment? Please, who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Most of the votes were adopted to debate, to vote on the government's amendment. Minister, Minister Ivan Shuker. Please explain the amendment to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92994	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Since the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a draft law yesterday on the addition of pensions under the Pension Insurance Act and on the calculation of the Pension and Ministry of Finance, the law would be fully implemented by the end of the year. Because as you know in the law, an application of 1.10 is proposed. We have calculated that for all pensions to be paid on all grounds, 60 million kuna would be missing, and therefore we propose that, from the position of the Ministry of Finance, the rest of the government's expenditure be reduced by 60 million, and that the Croatian Pension Insurance Office in the position of the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship is increased by 60 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92995	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club, only the respected representative Tonči Tadic can speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92996	Dear Mr. President, as much as we can agree here in this amendment with a whole series of items is that we find it truly strange and incomprehensible, and this is a reduction of support for religious communities, as well as a reduction of the amount for the implementation of the International Agreement between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia. I remind you that the whole series of properties that were supposed to be returned have not been returned, among other things the Croatian diocese is asking for from the “Sunish Hvar” which the government has promised to return, but has not done so. And now at all that together, we also have a reduction in the amount that would go for the realisation of those contracts. So, I would ask Mr. Minister to explain whether it was agreed with the Holy Table, whether it was passed by an interstate commission led by the model Mr. Cardinal and Mr. Bozo Bishop as minister or did you do it on your own.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92997	This is where it has to be voted. There isn't. That's the procedure. There isn't. That's the procedure. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 114 votes adopted by this amendment. Now we're going with the other amendments. Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92998	The government does not accept the amendments for the reason why the reduction of funds used to maintain border points in the Republic of Croatia is proposed, and these funds are allotted otherwise from the revenue of the payment for the use of space at the border. So these are revenues that are charged at the border and used to maintain border crossings and it is illogical that these funds are then removed from this position and replaced for another position.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u92999	Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93000	I think it is logical, therefore, that the item that is talking about border crossings for Slovenia is precisely to be financed from that point of purpose where it was most useful, and I primarily think that for the border crossing in the Police Centre where the current situation is very difficult. The border crossing in the Mursko Centre is already known to be located in the centre of the Mursko Centre. I think that these funds should at least begin to address this problem, of course with the support of other ministries. I think the Ministry of Finance should allocate the initial resources to address this problem, and that is why these funds should be allocated. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93001	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Second, also representative Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93002	The government doesn't accept for two reasons. The first reason is that we believe that the intended means to stimulate exports are sufficient, and the second is that the reduction of the means to subsidise shipyards is proposed in view of the situation at present in Croatian shipyards. The government cannot accept the reduction of subsidies to Croatian shipyards by 82 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93003	Representative Pavlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93004	So I think that with the means to encourage exports that are insufficient, unlike you, because according to the provisional data from the State Statistics Office for the first five months of this year, Croatian trade with abroad in the first five months of this year characterizes an ever-lower rate of export growth from imports, high deficit growth and a decrease in export coverage to 46%. The trade exports were expressed in US dollars in the first five months of this year at $4.64 billion, which was 16% more than in the same period last year, while imports were simultaneously increased by 20.8% and totaled $10.1 billion. So this data tells us exactly the opposite, i.e. that we should further encourage our exporters. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93005	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Also the third amendment of MP Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93006	The government does not accept for reasons because, as proposed in the previous amendment to reduce 85 million for shipbuilding subsidies, this amendment proposes an additional reduction of 60 million and would simply choke Croatian shipbuilding and that is the main reason why the Government cannot accept this amendment, because I repeat the situation in shipbuilding is so and if the funds were reduced by 150 million kuna then they would really be in a terrible difficult situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93007	Representative Zeljko Pavlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93008	This amendment is given... even treatment. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]] So with this amendment, I've been trying to get some of the money to be industrialized, so also according to the textile and shoe industry, we know what kind of situation it's in. In the last year, the textiles industry received 20 million kuna, and it seems to me that this year it will get the same 20 million kuna, so the funds are welcome to them, but it would be much better if it was much bigger funds then I think our textiles and the footwear industry would have a safer future. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93009	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The fourth also representative Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93010	The government cannot accept for the reason that 75 million additional funds are provided in the Regional Development Fund where the units you are proposing can compete with the Regional Development Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93011	Representative Zeljko Pavlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93012	I think that, which is the amendment, therefore, the proposal for a regional development strategy. This is one of the items in which the reduction occurred, so this is about drawing up a national development strategy. Unfortunately, Croatia still does not have a national development strategy, which is exactly what Croatia needs because, unfortunately, they are witnessing that from month to month, year to year the differences between our regions are growing and bigger. This also warns us about this World Bank report on poverty in the Republic of Croatia, and in the introduction of this report, World Bank experts warn us that these regional differences should be addressed through a national regional development strategy. We still don't have this national strategy, we don't know if it's being developed at all, and at the same time in the budget, we're cutting funds for the development of this national strategy. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93013	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fifth, Agent Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93014	The government cannot accept for the reason that it is proposed to reduce the security intelligence agency's funds by 27 million kuna million in the moments when the corruption has been hit hard. It is illogical for SOAs to cut the funding by 27 million, because then they would practically block their full work.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93015	Thank you. The representative is not present. There's a vote to vote on. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Sixth, also representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93016	For the same reason, we cannot accept that for 46 million cuts in resources to the Security Intelligence Agency, I say for the moment that we engage in a decisive fight with corruption. With these two amendments, it would practically block the entire work of the Intelligence Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93017	There's a vote to vote on. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the seventh amendment of MP Željko Pavlica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93018	The government cannot accept because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a plan to maintain Croatian roads in 2005-2008. Secondly, the Betermen programme is financed by the principle of 50% of the European Investment Bank, 50% from the Croatian Roads. And the third thing is, it is proposed to reduce the funds in the budget for the reconstruction and arrangement of the roads by islands. We can't talk about the development of the island, we can't talk about bringing life back to the islands if we propose a reduction of these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93019	Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93020	I don't agree, there can't be a change... the item, which is why the budget rebalancing is due. [[You don't understand.]] That's what the budget rebalance is about. Međimurje could say it in a transmitted sense, the same island, surrounded by water. The roads on it are just as bad as on Brač or on another island. I think the funds would be very welcome especially to restore the state road from St. Cross to Lower Dubrava. I think we need to strike a balance between our regions, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93021	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the amendment and addition of the State budget. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 69 votes for, 6 abstentions and 32 against amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007, the text proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93030	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So this can be said to be technical changes, the first condition is that we have reduced the deficit by proposing this budget from 2.8 to 2.6 automatically with it is the need for borrowing, to increase debt has decreased. Also, since we expect one part of the share revenue, from the sale of shares and shares in the principal, part of the funding account in the event of their failure is only possible to the government if it happens that it can be settled by borrowing and these are all other technical changes, with one classical decision, so given that there will be elections and that Parliament will not be sitting at the end of the year, then the logical thing is to allow redistribution within each of the positions of the budgetary users in order to carry out the budget and certain divisions will be in line with the programmes that the ministries are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93031	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. The clubs didn't sign up. An individual debate. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Likewise. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93032	That's not at all controversial. Thank you for confessing. It's worth finally saying that. Dear President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. You know, I'd like to put a few individual remarks first, first of all, on Article 7. New Article 41a where a fine of 10 thousand to 100 thousand kuna would be punishable for the offence of a responsible person... If contrary to the provisions of Article 13(1) of this Act is applied, first formally. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The law is written in a capital letter, so it's meant for this text. That law does not have article 13 but has only 8. So it would have to write the exact name of the law, or to which number of articles it refers, but that's a minor problem. I have one question left for me, in fact, that if the unit of local or regional self-government as a public partner with a private partner went to work above 35% of the budget income achieved to show it. The question is, what about the private partner? Does he have responsibilities, does he have responsibilities if he accepts the conclusion of a contract because it is a public-private partnership that is contrary to the law? In that context, I have to ask myself and you the first question, and the second question is that you can't get into this business without the Ministry's consent. See, that's why I think we should ask a little differently. I think this is about responsibility for disrespecting the central government, not overruling its powers in the management of the funds. And that should be a little more specific for me. The second question I would like to raise is exactly what the minister has completed his presentation and this is a matter of redistributing funds that the government could do on a proposal from the ministry by its decision. Of course the motive is known given the fact that in this year practically the Parliament would be established and the Government appointed,... It is likely that it is only the beginning of next year, given the planned elections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there are... Surely and such a possibility that this Article 40a is not actually made for a simple reason because there is a decision on temporary financing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in a decision on temporary financing, there is a perfectly normal possibility that, in accordance with the Budgeting Act, this issue is resolved. Because if the Government is given the possibility to make a decision on redistributing the funds then it is not technically the government's management of the budget until the technical government that has ceased to exist, which is doing the jobs until the new government's trust is gained, until it is established. And that is why I think we should discuss this issue not only with financial but also with a political-democratic, democratic aspect. And one more thing I'd like to say rightly is that when it comes to a 2.3% total budget revenue, it was a 2% write error. But I also think that such things could not and should not happen in the future. This should be resolved in advance so that such things do not occur. And the last thing is the question of the payment and transfer of unplanned aid or aid over the funds that are planned and the highest to the level of the funds paid or transferred related to the lottery, related to... things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think this segment should take care of these projects, too. You know, someone approved the projects. I don't think it should be tied up every time that the Minister of Finance and the Ministry should approve the funds themselves if, before that, with prior consent or at least the previous opinion of the Ministry of Finance, the project has been approved. Therefore, we should, in particular, introduce one part now, and thus draw closer to the European Union, so that the management of the funds monitors the implementation of the project, not every time we have special financial approval. I think it's between the other and the one objection we're coming up with, we're getting outside. Here's so much for the remarks about this law. Otherwise, in a substantive sense, the law actually tries to meet the requirements of budget rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93033	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. The final review of Finance Minister Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93034	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And actually thank you for this first question, Mr. Vice President. Perhaps this High House, given that a public-private partnership project has begun to take place, needs to be said. In principle, why did we propose and even this symbolic punishment? For the reasons that certain units of local self-government have started to enter the project of public and private partnership in a very strange way without asking according to the guidelines adopted by this High House, the consent of the Ministry of Finance and the consent of the Export Encouraging Agency, as such guidelines define it. However, some kind of strange public partnership where someone makes a deal, then imposes obligations on someone else, and that's why we went to this proposal to say punishment if someone doesn't stick to these obligations and as far as redistribution is concerned, as long as the state budget is at the fifth level, there will be a need for redistribution. Remember that was 2001, 2002, 2003 and that was 2007. In 2003, it was redistributed about three and a half billion. Last year, it was about 2 billion and 200. However, what should be noted is purely because of the minutes and because of the MPs who are here that the redistribution cannot be made outside the means this House approves of one ministry. So the budget cannot be increased. No one can spend more money than this Parliament has approved. So that's something that's been going on for years and it's nothing new. What's important is that and the State Audit Office... The finding is year-on-year, given that the budget looks more and more like the programming budget and not just to factor it into individual costs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The need for these redistributions is getting smaller and smaller.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93035	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93036	So I have to correct this piece of guidance that is directed and directed to the norm by the principle of authority, not by the principle of legality, is actually looking for certain behavior of the unit of local self-government. It may not be the end of a correction, but it will certainly be useful for all of us. It is shown that the remarks we had in the adoption of guidelines that should be regulated by law were justified for a simple reason, in fact often the interest of local self-government units is much greater than that of the guidelines. Since there is no punishment, there is no possibility, no legal obligation and no guidance on such behaviour then we are in a situation that, now by changing the budget law, we are trying to legalize something that is actually a policy present in the guidelines. And for that reason, I think that, based on this experience that we have already little to do, we should consider the possibility of making or amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations and that public-private partnership agreements should be introduced and worked out there or that a new amendment and addition of the law that will definitely resolve this issue to become a question of legality rather than a question of political authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93037	Thank you. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. With 74 votes in favour, six abstentions and 31 against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93040	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So according to the provisions of the applicable Value Added Tax Act, most deliveries are paid 22%. So that's the basic rate. And we still have two feet, a zero rate and a 10% rate, a zero rate on food products, orthopedic aids, books and services in cinemas and a 10% rate on tourism services, and you know that up to one year ago, the rate in tourism was 0% for an organised visit to tourists outside and 22% for everyone else. We have changed it so that today the rate of tourism for all guests is 10%, and these amendments to the Law suggest introducing lower rates for publishers. So they have an obligation to charge taxes on added value from 105 to newspapers and magazines. However, all services, i.e. advertising and all other commercial services when making an account are required to account for value added tax of 22%. So for newspapers sent by and equipment to distributors, according to kiosks etc. This amount is paid a 10% value added tax, but for all commercial services, first of all I mean advertising is paid 22% for the reason that there is no unfair competition because we have a whole series of advertising and advertising you want via electronic media, you want through posters and a series of other ways, and that's why you need to leave the exact same conditions for all. We propose that this Law enter into force in 1.8, and as regards comparisons, for example, some other Member States of the European Union have. Austria has a 10% rate, Germany 7, Malta and Portugal 5, Italy and Spain 4 and just to say that the state budget, it is an assessment at the Ministry of Finance due to a reduction in the value added tax rate on magazines and daily newspapers next year will have a lack of income from that base somewhere around 290 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93041	Thank you. The committees. The Committee on Finance, the Budget. No one. Keep going. I'm opening a debate. For the club of representatives of IDS, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93042	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I don't think there's anyone really in this assembly who wouldn't support this law. Yes, of course. This law, as Minister Shuker has now said, weighs 290 million kuna. Now, is that going to lead to the cheaping of newspapers, as it is said in this explanation, I'm going to be honest with you about that. On the other hand, however, such a law certainly can contribute to the reduction of losses in some journalists’ homes. We've been following this case recently, Feral. So the case of 500 thousand kuna VAT. Feral is in the meantime, if I'm not mistaken, he's coming out again, which is more than good for the mental hygiene of this country. Now the question is just how autonomous it will be in 2007 because opportunities are changing, readers are changing, foreigners' interest in funding, Croatia is civilised, etc. But let me get back to the subject. The VAT on the media certainly needs to be reduced. It is generally necessary to reduce this VAT. In my court, it should be reduced from 22% to 20%. Why? Because Croatia has the largest VAT in Europe, i.e. value added tax or should introduce differentiated rates, among other things on the trail of this Article 1 where it is said that value added tax is paid at a rate of 10% per a) accommodation services or accommodation with half-board breakfast or full board in all types of commercial catering facilities and services of agency commissions for the above mentioned services and under b) now what is introduced is this new, newspaper, magazines that come out daily, periodically, except for those which in general or mainly include advertising. In my court, it would be good to introduce three rates of VAT, if this general 22% of the tourist-media 10% were to be maintained and one social rate of 5% was to be introduced on food, on newspapers, on children's supplies, etc. That's how I think we'd significantly lower the cost of our lives. 2% less VAT, it's a de facto minus in the state register of 3 and a half billion kuna. I believe Croatia has room for this moment. VAT on food 5%, this clearly needs to be calculated how small the budget would be. Some people think it's between six and seven billion kunas. Of course it's not a game, it's not a game. On the other hand, it dares to say this bill, better said this message to the media de facto these 290 million kunas are net wages for all journalists working in Croatian written media. Let's say that if the average salary is 4000 750 kuna, I'm talking about net wages, not gross wages, and let's say that in the newspapers 5 thousand people cover the job means over 12 months 5 thousand journalists get the net salary average in the country that is equivalent to 290 to 300 million kuna. However, what is primary in my court most when we talk about VAT at the moment would help media houses, but not only them, but also small craftsmen, the economy as a whole, that is, or that would be if this VAT was paid not within 30 days, but within 60 days. In Italy, I know that VAT or their lives are paid within 4 months, as they will say for 120 days. I know that Croatia cannot afford it at this time, but I think it is time for Croatia to move on to pay VAT within 60 days. There, when VAT is introduced, is paid within 15 days, is now paid within 30 days. I think, Mr. Minister, that it would be a really strong step that would help the Croatian economy most at the moment. The truth is Croatia, here we see from this explanation there is also this zero rate which is once again new as regards or the exception as regards Europe for bread, for milk, for books, for medicines, for surgical products or supplies, for scientific magazines, even films and I personally hold that all food, but all the beginnings of this bread, milk, etc. should be taxed with 5% VAT. I said earlier that would be minus in the state budget for about six to seven billion kunas. We're rebalanced or we will, which we were just discussing redistributing five billion kunas. The government budget for 2007 was 103.5 billion kuna. With a rebalancing this year, the state or government will redistribute without the budget funds of € 108.5 billion. So more than 5 billion 12 million 312 thousand kuna compared to planned. I know, if one average pension is in this country 2,000 kunas, in fact, a thousand and 900 kunas, somewhere, and if you're alone, you spend as much a day as you can spend? 60, 65 kuna. So what's left? You can buy half a kilo of bread for two, three kunas, half a liter of milk for cca. So many kunas, half a kilo of potatoes, some vegetables, meat every third day. And if you have your own apartment, if you could buy it back in '91, '92. You'll be half hungry for 7.8 thousand marks, but somehow you'll survive. So what's absolutely above all else is worth equating old, new pensioners. And that is why I think it would be useful to either reduce VAT from 22% to 20% or introduce another differentiated rate for a part of these food products, although perhaps the Croatian economy at this transitional moment would be most helpful if it introduced VAT payments over 60 days from the current 30 days. As for the newspapers themselves, etc., this is no small matter what is being discussed today, and what is certainly to be adopted during tomorrow. I'll do it again. That's 290 million kuna for these media houses. It is a de facto net salary for all employees who work in Croatian media houses starting with "Glas Istria" via "New List", "Vjesnika", "Mutarnjig", I don't know "The Evening Party", "Free Dalmatia", "The Voice of Slavonia" etc. Five thousand people, that's a salary for five thousand people. Now, if it's a political deal, Mr. Jarnjak, I don't know. But if it is, it will help the media. That's true. What is it? [[What is it?]] Now. We now make it clear, as is said here in this explanation, that we do not need to suggest to the owner what it will spend that difference between 22 and 10%. The government is proposing to reduce the price of newspapers to five kunas, which I doubt. I don't believe that's gonna happen but it's gonna stay six kunas, but some voter will consolidate his business. I don't know what's going to happen, but in any case, I'd like to commend a valuable message. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93043	Thank you. In the name of the club ordered a call, the esteemed representative Željko Pecek. Peace out there, peace out.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93044	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd beg you...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93045	So you want to be a little quiet?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93046	I would ask you not to have fun at such serious times.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93047	I'm sure you don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93048	Yeah. But I'd like you to try us, too, I'll wait, just make the phone call.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93050	So I'd like you to explain to us at least how few of us are here in the Parliament, which means this jump on the agenda, the ticking where we're pulling the agenda points and especially pulling those points that aren't... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93051	It's all announced. You have a debate about this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93052	Let me say it. First of all, we're discussing points that haven't passed the boards. This point on VAT has not been passed by the Information Committee and neither has the next point on electronic media. From what I hear, we're going to discuss her, and she doesn't have the board's opinion either. Well, it'd be nice to hear if we're introducing a new practice or if we're going to be chasing that model like Professor Hebrang said, we can't keep up with that in opposition. It's one of the tempos where you ride a bike and where it's supposed to go, only he didn't think of it first, but he remembered that thesis of the first Kuttle.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93053	That's it?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93054	Everything, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93055	Thank you very much. If it were to be followed a little more carefully, then you would not miss the opportunity to see that this Bill on Value Added Tax has been discussed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget but by the report that... And also the Legislative Committee that he discussed and sent his report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the agenda goes according to what has been announced. The truth goes very quickly, it will go even faster, as things stand. There's nothing left. I'm finalizing a debate on this subject. Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please vote. The result? With 91 votes for and one abstention passed by the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93058	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the first time we have offered you as I said in my first reading of the new Law on Spatial and Building, a law that in one place unites everything that anyone needs to go into building an object. What is particularly important in this law is that for the first time, we place a much greater responsibility on planners, designers, supervisory authorities and performers than ever before. As far as the spatial part is concerned, I will only briefly repeat to remind you that it is that we are not changing anything significantly in the spatial arrangement, except that for the county plans we are establishing a mandatory strategic environmental impact assessment, because we believe that everything that is directly related to environmental protection must be determined at the county level. So in the future all county plans will have to have a strategic environmental impact assessment. Other things like I said and the last time we did spatial plans analysis across Croatia we found that there were too many detailed plans and urban planning arrangements, and therefore we made a commitment that detailed plans must be worked where urban composing is envisaged and urban planning plans where plans are planned, where construction areas are completely undeveloped or where reconstruction of certain parts of the city or municipality is planned. It's a major change. Of course, we units of local self-government do not allow them to plan where they feel they need to make detailed and urban planning. They can do it but it's mandatory only here where we said it was. As far as a newspaper is concerned, it is still misleading, that at the county level there must be institutions for spatial planning that become institutions and that at the level of large cities, it is recommended that the establishment of urban services because we think that every big city would have to have its own establishment that is owned by it and that it would plan space in the city itself with those spatial plans of urban or detailed cities. As far as urban cohesion is concerned, I talked about it, and last time, it's a landscaping on certain parts of the city that so far couldn't be arranged because ownership relations were what they were, plots were either too small or too big, someone had too small, someone too big a plot. And therefore, this new way of urban cohesion is determined. So far, we've only had the Property Act and other real rights. This time we propose that institution as well. Therefore, but of course, for the entire area that would be co-compatible urbanally, all owners must agree and all owners should be dealt with together with a commission to be formed at the level of the city, municipality or county. As for the construction section here, we have significantly simplified the process of obtaining local and construction permits. Namely, for 400 squares and agricultural to 600 squares facilities no longer require a local and construction permit, only a solution to the building conditions will be obtained and this solution will allow it to be built. Of course, at the site itself, the investor must have a major project to build on and control the construction itself. As regards the use of the permit in such facilities, it will no longer be necessary to carry out a technical examination and to issue a valid permit, but the supervisory engineer will verify that the facility is built in accordance with the decision on the conditions of construction and that all the conditions of the main project are met. In this way, we will significantly simplify the overall procedure because there are no more two administrative procedures, there is only one administrative procedure. Therefore, consents that have always been a great pain will have to be collected only once. As far as larger facilities such as residential facilities, hotels or other facilities are concerned, a location permit will have to be obtained but still only as one procedure. As for the possibility of construction, it will be necessary to have a major project to obtain confirmation of the main project to be issued in offices or large cities or counties and to make it clear that all the conditions of the location permit have been applied in the main project and that the audits of the main project have been carried out in relation to the stability of the facility, ionising radiation, as regards the physics of the air, means noise protection, heat protection and the like. These facilities will require a useful authorisation, so technical examination and a useful authorisation must be carried out. Large facilities such as refineries, highways and the like will have to have both local and construction permits, so that these permits must include united environmental protection conditions. And these facilities will issue a useful permit in such a way that the facility is issued for permanent duration, and as far as environmental protection conditions are concerned, it is issued at five years and after five years it is necessary to verify that all those conditions prescribed by both the project and the audit, whether these conditions and really are on site, on the facility or should be completed and then the permit will be issued for a further five years. And so every time every five years and if certain things need to be fixed they won't be able to be done but for so long, so they won't be able to get an extension of the license until these deficiencies are resolved that are determined. You all know that we have especially counties located in a coastal area where we simply can't get people, a sufficient number of people who would issue local and construction permits. On the basis of requests and large cities and counties, we propose to transfer from the Office of State Administration means that they have the original right to issue and resolve and local and construction permits, meaning the offices or administrative departments that will be formed in large cities and in the counties. We held talks with all those who were interested in this law, so with the association of cities, with the county, with the chamber of architects and engineers involved in the construction. We have accepted all their comments so that the law should come into force if you accept 1.10th and this new structure should mean that with the issue of local and construction permits, we should start in 1.12008 at the request of the Association of Cities and Countys, because then a new budget is brought and then they can plan on doing these jobs. We think that they will succeed in getting more people because their salaries are higher and they will simply be organised differently so that we think that there will be an improvement and that they will be dealt with more quickly and easily, especially because there will be no more two procedures, two administrative procedures than one. These are the main indications in this law. Of course we'll listen to all your suggestions and remarks but I think the boards have all accepted these, ours, our proposal and we don't think there are any major objections anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93059	Thank you. The committees? The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Dear Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93060	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the 61st session held on 5 July 2007, the Final Proposal for a Law on spatial planning and construction was discussed by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the subject and the Final Proposal of the Law as the home working body. The Committee held a written proposal for amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law of the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction, the Class of Geodesy Engineers, the Class of Electrical Engineering Engineers, the Class of Architect Engineers and the Croatian Association of Employers, the Association of Geodetic, Geoinformatic Professionals. In the opening explanation of Minister Dropulić, Minister of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, construction briefly explained the differences proposed by this Final Proposal in relation to the solutions set out in the Proposal for Law, and pointed out that the final proposal of the Law has respected a large part of the observations and proposals of the Association of Cities and the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction. It also noted that there was still an open subsidisation of the content of the main project defined in Article 1 of Regulation (EU) No 193/2012. Proposal for a class of engineers of the geodesy of the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction and the Croatian Association of Employers, the Association of Geodetic Information Professionals and the main project also contains, the main project also includes a geodetic project. The Committee's discussion supports the adoption of this Act and points out that it regulates spatial planning and construction in full and systematic manner and introduces provisions on urban cooperation. As regards the proposed amendment to the development of geodesy engineers of the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction on Article 193, paragraph 1 suggesting that the main project also contains a geodetic project, the Committee supported the Minister's reasoned statement that the implementation of the geodetic project for each project would constitute an additional unnecessary financial burden on investors. The Minister also noted that it is undoubtedly necessary to develop a geodetic project in the construction of large infrastructure projects and can be regulated by the amendment of Article 193(3), paragraph 3. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to support it, to propose an amendment to Article 3(3). As regards Article 193 and the observations of the class of architects, the engineer of the construction of the Croatian Chamber, it is proposed that the amendment to Article 193, paragraph 1 deletes the cost of designed works. The view of the representatives of the architect class was expressed that the coster was produced in the phase of the project and that there was insufficient data in the main project to make a quality coster. The Committee did not support this view by assessing that the coster was necessary because it contains a detailed description of the works and quantities. At the same time, the Committee did not support the proposed amendment classes of electrical engineering engineers of the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in construction related to engineering buildings such as transformers' stations and the like, as specified in Article 2(4) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, together with the next amendment. In Article 193, paragraph 3 is amended as follows: "Depending on the type of construction, the main project includes other types of projects, geodetic project, foundation project, landscape and others." A brief explanation. Evaluating that building complex infrastructure projects, for example highways, tunnels, bridges, high-rise buildings and so on is necessary, the amendment suggests that the main project includes other types of projects such as geodetic project, foundation project, landscape project and others. In accordance with Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure, the Minister will prescribe the mandatory content and elements of these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93061	Thank you. For the HNS Club, a respected representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93062	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Minister with her associates. I regret to conclude that, in addition to some minor corrections, none of my essential remarks and suggestions were taken into account what I expected. Although it is immaterial to write amendments to individual members and because all of this is ineffective, because all the comments and suggestions I raised in the debate cannot significantly correct what the law should fix, however, for reasons of supporting the profession, I have decided to submit some amendments that are actually amendments to our profession. So that story about everyone being consulted and that it's in agreement with everyone I don't think stands because these amendments are the amendments that you haven't accepted and I think that at least the public should get to know them again and discuss them. The essence of the remarks and the proposal is to point out some in the law embedded solutions which, in my opinion, definitely lead to unnecessary additional administration, more complicated and delaying the process of preparation and production. Of course, the creation and adoption of spatial-planning documentation itself, which will reflect the efficiency of the system and will additionally collect and time-consuming this whole process. For example, this law changes the structure and content of the plans, but this will not introduce a significant new quality of planning or better efficiency, but in the first changes and addition plans will actually have to be exaggerated in text as well as in graphics, and that essentially everything will remain similar. In addition, extensive documentation is additionally burdened by a bunch of mandatory contributions which are not used in the application, but they eventually serve various administrative procedures when giving consent and giving an opinion on the plan. It only extends and collects processes, and of course it makes it difficult and slows down the realization. The argument that, at the end of the final proposal for a law under which the applicable documentation can be amended and complemented under still applicable sublaws does not mean that, when the first amendment and addition of an existing plan, it will not be necessary to propose this plan in all parts of the new law, so that, in practice, when the first amendments and additions of the applicable documentation, we will also have an obligation to make it structurally and substantively difficult to comply with the provisions of this law now, because this law is nowhere different. Furthermore, the law prescribes a procedure that precedes the creation of the process itself, then the process of discussion, obtaining consent and opinions, and the adoption of spatial plans. The whole process, which is already in line with the current law and regulation, which makes it quite clear that steps are being made, complements or introduces new procedural and formal steps that complicates, collects and extends the time of adoption of spatial order documents or their amendments and additions. It would have been much more effective if we had completed some of the failures we've seen so far. In particular, I point out the introduction of a new obligation that units of local self-government will make difficult and collect the implementation of plans, which is an obligation to develop a urban planning plan for each planned, not a building area greater than 5000 m2. Even legal solutions with the separation of county institutions are not clear enough, i.e. the realisation of these legal provisions is inconclusive. Offices for spatial planning under the new law of the county are established as public institutions. The conditions for carrying out the activities will be prescribed by the Minister with a rule to be adopted, and the time limit for adoption is 60 days, and the counties must set up institutions within 6 months, and that is, if there is no new rule then under the existing rule, which is quite illogical. It would be better for the deadlines to start running after the new rule is passed. This is likely to assume the transition of human and material and technical resources from the current institutions and counties to a public institution although the legislator does not say anything about existing employees, businesses and material and technical resources of the institutions except reserved funds for salaries. This will also require additional staffing of new institutions under the existing regulation, as some of the existing institutions are being honest and are not fully teamed up to this day, and additional needs certainly stem from the obligation to introduce an information system prescribed by the new law. In addition to all the above mentioned counties, they shall appoint the Administrative Authority to be responsible for the construction and adoption of documents of spatial arrangement under their jurisdiction, coordination and implementation of the procedure followed by them. It is difficult to assess whether the proposed changes will improve the efficiency of the zoning system at the county level, but it is certain that additional costs will burden the county. These are only the most significant emphasis on parts of the law that regulate the process of spatial planning, preparation, production, debate, consent, opinions and adoption. They seem important to me for reasons that will significantly slow down procedures that for any reason are not covered by valid plans, which are necessary, realistic and objective. The fact is that the current plans are experiencing dynamic changes primarily on the economic plan, and I estimate that the proposed legislative solutions will not contribute to more effective support for the development of programmes in the area, either regional or local or local self-government. Let us also try to put ourselves in the role of an ordinary man who intends to build a family home, and his plot is within the building area according to the existing plan by, say, a failure, a mistake or simply an unquality view of the needs and possibilities or is in the planned construction area but not built and greater than 5,000 metres. This man depends on the change and completion of the plan, i.e. the creation of an urban planning for an undeveloped area greater than 5000 square meters, and he and his unit of local self-government meet with all the procedural, time and financial steps set out above. The law does not make a procedural or substantive distinction between significant or strategic changes and procedures and those that are marginally important to space but of vital importance to individuals. In the final draft of the law, adjustments were made to the obligation to produce, term and mandatory content, the structure of the spatial plan of the City of Zagreb, the PGZ. Namely, as an integral part, the PPGZ now includes the elements of the spatial plan of the big city POUVG, construction areas and the terms of the arrangement, which means that for the City of Zagreb or for the same coverage, two plans will not have to be worked. We will have the PPGZ and PPUVG as the bill had previously provided. Article 72 is amended as follows: What is also good and what should be commended is Article 38, where institutions are again able to make urban plans, edit. Unfortunately, by law and as far as I know, you have received observations from several different institutions and from the society of architects and from the association of architects and from the Faculty of Architecture. I'll give you and Mr. Pegan wrote remarks at 18.5. Unfortunately, the elimination of the general urban plan for the City of Zagreb and all major cities is envisaged to mean a marked return to the beginnings of spatial planning due to the violation of well-studed hierarchy and system that is proven by the number and quality of the plans adopted in the previous period, resulting from the tradition of producing primarily the GUP of the City of Zagreb. Contradiction is also incomprehensible in the assessment of the state by which Croatia has a long tradition that is ultimately in the explanation, according to which Croatia has a long tradition of spatial planning. And then, despite such long tradition and experiences, which include the experience of the City of Zagreb without an argumentary analysis of such experiences, which should show justification for a different approach to spatial planning, the possibility of developing a general urban plan on which, again, in the case of the City of Zagreb, the concept of a fundamental organisation of space, the protection of natural, cultural and historical values with the aim of urban reconstruction and consolidation of the urban urban urban area is tried and proven, in line with the strategy and program of spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia. Although I only warned of the inability to complete the process of adoption of the plan, due to the obligation to repeat the public debate that can be repeated twice, after which a new process of production is implemented and must be repeated even in the light of the minimum changes in the construction area based on the observations accepted, and for the City of Zagreb, there are several thousand objections in Article 93. For all of these reasons, the Croatian People's Party club will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93063	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93064	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Shain cited several incorrect allegations, so I will try to correct only two quickly. First, the law did not clear the issue of setting up county spatial planning offices, so that's not true. The law makes it clear that it is an obligation and it is a county and that they will have to implement it. However, the second question could possibly be discussed is the establishment of an institution in large cities. They can, and they don't have to, and that's how it's regulated. And lastly, please, this law does not abolish the general urban plan of the City of Zagreb, which the colleague stated, because the transitional and final provisions clearly state that all spatial plans remain in force for 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93065	Individual debate, respected representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93066	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'd like to say about this bill. One of the remarks that could have been heard during the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning and Construction in the First Reading was that it was not in obvious I would have told the pre-election rush to pass, a draft bill that was drawn up without the participation of expert teams in the area of spatial and urban planning and construction. The Minister replied to these comments that any objections to the draft law would be considered until the second reading and that the assessment of which of these remarks would be incorporated in the final draft law would then be carried out. In the light of this final proposal, the law sets out the observations which have been accepted and those which have not been accepted, but only the observations made in the Assembly or at the meetings of individual parliamentary committees or at the plenary session shall be provided. Today, the minister again said in her opening section that talks were held with the institutions with which the talks were held and that all these objections were included, and then I do not understand why the reasoning of the law when it comes to differences between the first and second readings, i.e. the differences that have been made, did not mention them. And that's why I have to express my suspicions that it really is. On the other hand, I do not understand why the profession, professional institutions and individuals were ignored again, which is why the creation of this very important law did not involve representatives of professions, professional institutions and individuals. I would like to know why this exclusion and what the ministry's position is towards the objections of scientific institutions or professional associations such as the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction. I believe that such self-will and exclusion of the resolution ministry is not good and it is not good that the law as the one we are discussing today is not going to bring speed, so it is precisely because it is not possible to take the impression that this law is subject to the profit interests of powerful investors. Because the bill abolishes the programme of measures to improve the situation in space and the general urban plan, which again seems to me to open the door to chaos in space as it did after the construction land law was abolished, the Law on the treatment of buildings built against spatial laws and without the approval of construction. And then just in '95, I'd say the scariest period for the awakening of lawless construction and the unprecedented devastation of space. In addition, this law announces the urban commission although the same idea in 2003, Mrs Dropulic strongly opposed and I would then quote her words: "I do not consider urban co-operation to be the place under this law, because other than the details of the arrangements under which it is implemented, it has nothing to do with spatial planning." Therefore, given all that I have said and in view of the experience that unfortunately we have in Croatia in terms of devasting space, I am simply under suspicion that this law is passed among other things and that it is suitable for powerful investors and construction lobbys. So we have the opportunity to read these days the announcement of a significant number of tourist zone in Split-Dalmatia County. And now I wonder on the basis of which studies determine the capacity of our coast, whether a plan has been made and a development strategy to determine what it is that our coast needs to develop tourism in the future. This sustainable development plan is the basis on which the number of tourist zones should be determined, or what is the number of beds we need or better told as much as we can handle without disrupting the unique beauty of our coast that we have been known to do so far. Let's not let investors determine future developments for us because that's what we're going to do, cut ourselves a branch we're sitting on. And let me get this straight. This proposed law, i.e. this law proposed, is not too important and therefore it is necessary to carry out a broad public debate involving the profession, all the relevant entities that have something to say on this subject. There is no reason for haste, and there is even less justification for ignoring the opinion of professional associations and scientific institutions. Let's not get into a situation where one day we all ask ourselves what we did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93067	Thank you. Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93068	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'm terribly surprised with this discussion by Mrs. Martic because it just doesn't really stand anything you said. First of all, there's no rush. It's that we've analyzed the situation in space for three and a half years, and then we propose a new law. It's another thing. All comments made have been considered. The Croatian Chamber of Architects has published to you on its website, please see that all their remarks are respected and that we have talked to them several times and agreed on how it will go. Please look at their website. Therefore, do not say that we have eliminated the profession. We even proposed two years ago both to the Faculty of Architecture and to the Croatian Chamber of Architects to propose their own, to propose a law and that we would see together with them what they would like. We never got any suggestions, so we had to sit down and do the job ourselves. As regards the programme of measures to improve the situation in the space exactly that we have abolished it because no single programme of measures has been implemented in the area of certain municipalities and cities, but we have therefore left that before the creation, the beginning of each plan should be made a report on the situation in space and a decision should be made on making a plan that will precisely define why, what needs to be done, why something changes or why a new plan should be drawn up. As for the remarks, of course, they don't write here any remarks that didn't come from the Parliament. It means either at a meeting or on committees, because Mrs Martic's rules of procedure clearly state what to do and how to refer to certain remarks. Therefore, we stuck to the Rules of Procedure, and what I said with both the associations of cities and the counties and with the Croatian Chamber of Architects and with our advice on spatial planning we were very much discussing and not once this proposal. And what hurts me especially, and that's these tourist zones. We keep saying the same thing. It's like we didn't go out with the numbers, like we didn't tell you what was going on. All spatial plans of the county were adopted in 2002 or 2003. Then there were 129 thousand hectares of tourist zones in the coastal area. We've cut it all down. Today there is, it's a construction area. So the total construction area in the coastal area was 129 thousand hectares, now 109 thousand hectares, down by 15% on average. The total tourist zones are now 10,000 hectares, which is 30% less than the county plans that were adopted in 2002 and 2003. I'm curious why no one has ever responded to these county plans, why have any objections been made? Then why weren't people called, but then when you go down the area, when you go into those serious space protections, then we go like this. I ask you nicely, this is the true truth of God, and we stand behind it, behind every word I say. And I'm just gonna say one more thing. As far as spatial plans were concerned, four of those four years ago as these spatial plans are being taken care of today would not have happened if there were 113 of the 550 municipalities in Croatia at the end of 2003. Today we have 556 municipalities and cities and we have 529 plans, and by the end of the year we will have everything. So we have work to do, we have a starting base, we have where to go from, and we have where to go, possibly if certain changes and additions of individual plans are needed. Therefore, there is no saying that something is being hidden or being helped, and you can see for yourself that we are small people, those who are building family homes or agricultural facilities that need special attention and have specifically decided that they need an exclusive solution to the building conditions. So let's stop talking about tycoons once because it's just not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93069	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93070	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I would correct the inaccuracies of the Madam Minister who is that... She acted in her speech, but I would like to tell her that on 18 May she received comments on the draft of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Faculty of Architecture in several pages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then I would like to tell her that she also received remarks about the signature of Mioc, Cerina, Prlic and Silov in your ministry received 21.5.2007. He says, "Dear spokesmen of the Resort Ministry, I'm sending you the following suggestions." Then you received from various architects remarks at 7 May 2007. Let these remarks not be taken into account in this Law, and this literally shows that you did not communicate with the profession, except with perhaps cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93071	Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93072	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The law on spatial planning was passed in 1994 and amended and amended several times, and the Construction Act was passed in 2003 and applied from 1 January 2004. These laws of the administrative area of spatial planning, constructions are separately arranged, resulting in a long-term process for the establishment of building permits that often lasted two and more years. The system of spatial planning did not act as a common basis for the protection of space and construction of the Republic of Croatia, nor were the requirements of European principles of good construction incorporated into these laws. All of this has created difficulties in addressing the basic needs of citizens in building buildings, as well as in developing the economy of the Republic of Croatia and which must be removed. As the process of adopting the Final Proposal of the Environmental Protection Act is under way which will have a significant impact on the area of spatial planning and construction, solutions to the unique procedures in the planning of some spatial planning documents as well as in certain administrative procedures for building buildings, it is necessary to coordinate the system of spatial planning and building with the Environmental Protection Act. The system for spatial planning and construction should also be aligned with the powers of units of local self-government, particularly from the area of spatial planning of the issue of building permits, which have been placed in the jurisdiction of the Law on Local Self-Government. This is to remove these observed difficulties in implementing the laws under the powers of spatial planning and construction and to bring our legislation in line with the legislation of the European Union and other sectoral laws that address this issue, this final draft law has been proposed. This law for the first time regulates spatial planning, construction, construction of construction land, urban comassation and achieves a comprehensive role of spatial arrangement in the function of space protection and their integration with other important spatial regulations in the area of development from the impact on space and its editing. I will therefore be free to point only to the most important solutions in this final bill. The administrative area of spatial planning and construction is connected to a single system, including certain processes in the field of environmental protection. Pre-conditions for a more responsible local self-government in planning and protecting space are being established and are expected to bring development expectations into line with citizens' interests more adequately. Great cities will be able to set up their offices for their own purposes. The obligations of local self-government units to develop general urban plans for cities and the programme of measures to improve the situation in space have been lifted because it has been shown in practice that they are not necessary and the transitional provisions of the law leave the possibility that these plans remain in force for the next ten years. The Croatian Institute for Spatial Development is established for the purpose of drawing up spatial development documents for the needs of the country. The need to set up a Real Estate Management Fund is established so that active land policy can be maintained in the state and in the units of local self-government. It is ensured that the public is involved in the procedures for the adoption of spatial order documents through a public hearing procedure which is very good for this law too. New instruments to implement spatial plans, in particular urban cohesion, allow units of local self-government to edit building land with the arrangement of ownership relations. So it's one procedure that for the first time in our country the law is governed and I think we can all expect a lot. Introduces the right of first purchase of construction land for specially established areas for the benefit of the State and units of local self-government, subject to market conditions. There is an obligation to sell part of the land owned by units of local self-government to citizens if they need it to form an unbuilt building particle, with that part per surface not greater than 20% of the surface area of the building particle. And a very important provision that rationalises the process of issuing acts that approve construction for buildings of up to 400 meters and agricultural facilities up to 600 metres. Practically, the current local and construction permits are lifted and a solution to the construction will be issued. And the whole process simplifies and unites into one administrative procedure. This will be very time-consuming because there are no double trials or double resolutions on these matters. It's all down to one. In order to build these facilities, an idea project will require a solution to the building conditions issued by the city or county department to establish them. The funds for the work of these city departments will be provided in the budget from 1.1 next year. Therefore, there is no problem with them starting to work and taking on the responsibilities that these laws place on them. In order to build larger housing facilities and hotels, a location permit will need to be established, and only large and complex buildings and state infrastructures will need to be provided with an Environmental Impact Study, a location and building permit, as is usually the case for such large buildings. And according to the Minister, it's all about 150 or 160 objects such in the Republic of Croatia. What I would particularly like to stress is that this law confers great responsibility on the projector because it is obliged to confirm the project documentation, that it has been built in accordance with all the legal rules on which this project documentation must be built. And finally, to say that this law specifically regulates the construction inspection, its jurisdiction. As for certain provisions of the final bill, I would have no objection to them. I think they're all right, especially because the motionor adopted everything we discussed. And I will certainly provide this final bill that regulates the area of spatial planning, construction in a new and whole way because it ensures the protection of the space and construction of the Republic of Croatia on our and European principles of good construction certainly supports the adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93073	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Antun Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93074	Mr. President! Here, just like the waist, I get involved in this debate by replicating the presentation of a distinguished colleague, Shirtz, who is also what I am. And I just want to add and supplement this with one attitude as a profession, that the law is really well done, that it has reconciled all those specifics of our bearer, I would say the implementation of this law, and that is the profession from architects to builders and geodesy, that we have finally come to one whole law that regulates, monitors and defines the situation in space, starting from geodetic bases to rules and how we behave on one regulated building plot. I wish it would be a good idea for my replica to also be a proposal to fix the situation that isn't in the building land, starting with the situation on agricultural land, starting with the state of forest land where construction is also happening. Starting from those of us far-known and long-known elements of clear demarcation between agricultural land and forest land, starting from the fact that the spatial plans of our parks of nature must be more clearly defined by their borders, because we have made decisions on the boundaries of nature parks practically defined two building regimes in a particular area, so I believe that this ministry will, in its proposal, make such comprehensive and comprehensive definition of this area in order not to really do any new injustices higher in space and higher economic activity in certain nature parks. I absolutely support everything that's been said in the law starting from those content parts of this law to those who monitor the situation in space in one real way.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93075	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93076	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Representative Bagarić pointed out some solutions to the final proposal of this Law on Spatial Planning and Construction and focused mainly on the integrity of the solution to spatial and plan issues. I can only add it to and extend it by the time the Croatian Parliament adopts the Environmental Protection Act, both of these laws will fully regulate the issue of spatial planning and building and environmental protection, because they are connected and complemented in the process of obtaining documentation, so let's say it was not an obligation until now, the legal obligation to conduct appropriate environmental impact studies on the urban plan. The environmental law now commits itself, and in this way we will solve a series of procedures necessary to produce technical documentation for the issue of any document in the area of spatial planning or construction. And I once again note that for the first time this law transfers great responsibility to the designer of the project documentation i.e. the projector. He has received public authority through this law but has also received responsibility for what he is doing and what he is doing to the citizens in the building process of the facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93077	Thank you. Honorable representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93078	Thank you. Mr. President, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. So here's a few references to the final bill. We in the IDS think that law enforcement is good and that our citizens expect us to bring clear criteria and simpler criteria by which they will solve their housing problems. Compared to the first reading some things are fixed but some are still. It seems to me that maybe one more step has to be taken and a little more hearing and more coordination so that this law can actually be applied on the ground itself. I come from the city of Rijeka and I can say that we in Rijeka have really been teamed up to date for the takeover of both local and construction permits that we have been able to issue under this law and so far but there have been no of course implementing measures that we have not been able to realise so far. What has been disputed in previous remarks and what is not now incorporated into this law is that the law rather than the subsequent government regulation should determine for which interventions within the space are subject to the local authorisation of the city or county office and for which the ministry is responsible. There is a provision that the Government will regulate this by a regulation that will be adopted within 60 days of the entry into force of this law. The law, as we know, would have entered into force in 1.10, so plus another 60 days, that's then the entry into force of this law after the election. As I said, it is not known for which operations in the area will be issued by local authorities and I think it is important that this is regulated by law and not by regulation because this issue is a obligation and the takeover of civil servants and the provision of material and other technical conditions for work before the adoption of the regulation itself. In addition, there remains an undefined notion that this land is necessary for the regular use of the building, to determine which solution is envisaged. Thirdly, the plot of building land remains only allowed on the basis of a locational permit or a detailed plan which is in direct contrast to the Property Act even though we pointed out and the ministry did not accept it, but it was said to be in accordance with the European Union regulations. Because if land is urban and land is needed and it is mostly not possible to sell this land by the basis of the consent of the headship and can not implement the decomposition of the co-ownership community of the city, other persons or the like. So, except that they can't even do it in the city, they can't even do it in individuals, so that's the problem with the plots, especially in populated cities where the plots are a very strange form. Also, the ministry's consent to refer to the final proposal for a spatial plan. So, if the proposal finally established the headship and referred it to the city council because any correction of the plan between the headship and the city council conditioned re-consentation to the amendment of the plan. I think the procedure is very complicated again and it's not necessary. In addition, as regards Article 55, we also do not see the reason why the general urban plan as a plan document, and in particular the regulation of the time-limit of the existing GUP to ten years from the date of entry into force of the law. We believe that the timing of the GUP should be within the city's jurisdiction and depend on the assessment of its relevance because not all can be generalised and said that each GUP can last ten years. Furthermore, Articles 121 and 128 are also disputed, and this Article does not appear to belong at all and is not subject to this law. This issue has been governed by the Law of Property and other real rights, and by its content the proposed provision is indeed strange in the Construction Act. As regards Article 121, this is a solution to the determination of a building particle. This article has been copied from the current law, and it has created problems in implementation so far. First of all, the concept of land is mentioned as necessary for the regular use of the building, and nowhere is it defined as a term. This term was established by the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law which is in its amendment in '98. For years, the owners of the dwellings acquired by the purchase of housing rights became the owners of the land necessary for the regular use of the building, and that the shape and size of the property would be determined by the competent authority in accordance with the documents of the spatial arrangement and other regulations. And with this land necessary for the regular use of the building is not equated with the building particle, and this is visible from the text of the proposed provision. The further plan of the arrangement, which is clear from the very concept of meaning means what it means necessary, whether it's minimal or something else. The above problem is also visible from paragraph 2 of the same article where the solution is said to be made if the building is built on a cadastrian particle whose surface is larger than the area necessary for the regular use of the building. Here's an example. The cadastar particle has a surface of 1000 square meters, and with the previous location permit established as a building particle, and then by reconstructing the building that was socially owned had two apartments with residential rights, today real ownership. According to the House Sales Act, the owners obtained no land charge necessary for the regular use of the building, and in no case is the building particle area of 1000 square meters. In such a case, we believe that it is necessary to prescribe an act, a solution to determine the land necessary for the regular use of the building as a separate act. I think it is good that units of local self-government, i.e. large cities, will be given the opportunity to issue such permits, because we really need to shorten the procedure and we need to step up the teamwork in order for our citizens to really get their permits to solve their housing problems within the appropriate time limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93079	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Ante Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93080	Your Honor, Mr. President, it's an incorrect quote from a colleague who said the plot was contrary to ownership. Namely, it is a preventive measure in the sense of preventing parceling on building land on a plot. Because imagine how we would plot a plot where your property is one through 2000. So it's got nothing to do with it, and it's not in that sense that we're setting up this pitch ban at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93081	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93082	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MP Pesic said in her presentation that the law did not regulate that this land is necessary for the maintenance of the building. Well, of course that law doesn't have to be arranged. The land needed to maintain the building depends on many things, but the main thing that determines that, that is, the main document that determines this is a detailed document of spatial arrangement on the basis of which the plot of the building land is done and therefore the land necessary for the maintenance of the building is arranged by a document of spatial arrangement by a detailed plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93083	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93084	... This Final Proposal of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction confirms the commitment of the Croatian Government, especially this ministry, to publish this text on the Internet, and I would firstly point out the interest of all the counties most qualified and staffed to follow what is happening in this most sensitive part of this particular county that relate to the coastal island sea and area. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] What is especially looking forward to is that the Office for Spatial Planning of Countys has been given a special emphasis, with the law stating which jobs and what they do, designing and monitoring the implementation of spatial planning documents, the regional and regional level of the City of Zagreb, creating reports on the state of space, the management of the data register, and also producing and adopting spatial planning documents in accordance with this law on the territory of cities and municipalities if they issue them with these plans, they shall carry out and entrust the Ministry or the county headship. What would be useful is to ensure that these articles prescribe the existing and new decentralised functions of these institutions, and to shut down the institutions by the old structure within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law. After that, a new establishment of the institution is followed on the principle of a separate public county institution. What we are particularly interested in, and we would like to see how in one appropriate way, is that the new law does not actually provide additional funding for the institution. It is necessary to add, in Article 38, an item which would prescribe the financing of decentralised activities of the Office for Spatial Planning on the burden of State budget funds, as these proposals result from Article 23. The Law on Local and Regional Self-Government which stipulates that the costs of performing the State Administration's tasks transferred to the bodies of the local and regional self-government units are settled from the State budget. And that's another step would be towards decentralisation not only of function and means. I think it's a slight procedure that would further modernise this proposal and take a step further into decentralisation. It is particularly important, and I stress the provisions of Article 48 to 54. These are protected areas of particular interest for the country where the coastal area of the sea belongs, protected natural values, cultural historical areas which are areas of particular interest to the State. In fact, the regulation on a protected coastal belt has made a historic step, has stopped lawless construction, the devastation of maritime goods, and right here in Article 49, states what is a protected coastal area of the sea and how is it protected? It is also important that the restrictions in Article 51 are that in the protected coastal area we cannot plan or be granted a local permit or a solution on building conditions intended for, I will only highlight what we are most troubled at this time in Split-Dalmatin County but also in all coastal and coastal counties that we have heard on the island council which was recently held on Blato on the island of Korcula. The berth and ports of nautical tourism and the overrun of the coast and or sea outside the construction area, anchoring if the accommodation of the anchor is not carried out in official maritime publications for a simple reason because it is in fact stopping further devastation of our coves, ports and ports that are not arranged and wants to be specified. All those boaters who want to tie their ship down have to go to the ports and ports that are designed for that purpose and pay for it. And the waste of garbage and water and electricity connections, not this way, are being smuggled. These restrictions of procedure in the area are particularly important for the exploration and exploitation of sea salt, but for us in Split-Dalmatin County, lovers of good and natural stone construction is the exploitation of construction-technical stone for the purpose of building on islands of up to 5 hectares and annual production of up to 5 thousand cubic metres and architectural and construction stone for the purpose of continuing the traditional activity on the island of Brac where the only secondary school of stone-collars in Croatia is the state. Building for its own economic needs, building gross surfaces up to 30 meters square and on agricultural land area greater than 1000 square meters if located in an island area outside 1000 meters from the coastal line. It is also suitable in this way for the construction of the registered family holding and the provision of catering and tourist services in the rural household. If it is located on a building particle of at least 3 hectares away from the coastal line of at least 300 metres and 100 meters on the islands with the ground floor and a total building gross area of up to 200 metres. This also protects the local indigenous population and wants to enable them to develop and build on these legal rules. Sea beaches in Article 53, with... the area for the beaches is defined as an orderly and natural sea beach. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So another step in breaking and tourism and catering but specially decorated, decorated beaches. What still needs to be pointed out is the exactly shortened procedure for obtaining the terms of regulation of space so that all those who want to build on a plot up to 400 squares can speed up and facilitate this process so that they do not really deal with one unnecessaryly large paperwork that not only costs more but actually carries the most time and burdens every ordinary citizen who wants to build. What is another step in decentralisation is the agreement of the mayor to the spatial plans of the local level as referred to in Article 98 in the adoption of a spatial plan of the arrangement of the large city and the municipality, the holder of the production is obliged to obtain the consent of the mayors or bodies which are authorised. In this way, the mayor's responsibility is being strengthened but also the concern of space because it will easily coordinate exactly when consent is issued to the Final Proposal of the Spatial Plan and yet all in accordance with the Ministry because such a procedure should be complex, long-lasting and exhausted. What I would also like to point out as a possible improvement is precisely the data that should be done in some way again on the burden of the state budget, as set out in Article 343 of the regulation that the counties are obliged to provide material and technical organisational and financial conditions by 1 November of this year. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Such provisions question the provision of total funds for specific functions on the burden of the state budget, which is estimated to amount to around 20 million kuna in the first year. It is therefore necessary to lay down the area of financing as a whole on the burden of the state budget and to comply with the provisions of this Article. I believe that it is still on time because the budget for next year 2008 will be passed, passed and after the adoption of this law. Of course, it is necessary to say that this Law paints indeed, indeed, the situation in the space that wants to make a modern step and every honor and thanks that, on the basis of the right data, the creators of this proposal, here present from the Ministry, have done what we need, a modern, nomotechnically well-organized law that has echoed immediately in the application of ordinary man and citizen and of course also professions because it strengthens the responsibility of architects who are the greatest... and contributed to the so far unsettled situation in the area mainly on the sea's goods and shores and islands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93085	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately for me, I must correct one of the allegations of a friend from... I'm a colleague of Peronja's. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely he said in his introduction, the third, fourth sentence that it was a very good and brilliantly prepared bill. This allegation is simply not true because in the 4th minute of his bench exposure, the government's amendments to the same bill were divided. There are 16 of them, and at least 16 reasons why your claim does not stand until the end that it is an excellent or very well-prepared law when the debate in Parliament has already begun, the Government changes its amendments to me the key provisions so that these amendments are actually the denials of your claim that it is an excellent law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93087	Replica, the esteemed representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93088	You mentioned protected areas, areas of particular interest for the country, historical cores, etc. Since the city council decided to amend the PUP, the historic core of the city of Split, which is perhaps the most sensitive, urbanally sensitive part of the city of Split, which is under the protection of UNESCO. I am personally opinionated and many in Split, that it is not a good decision and that it is not in line with the general urban plan as a law of higher order. The Ministry replied to my inquiry that it was in accordance with the law, although I really do not understand how we can say that the situation there is, for example, a traffic solution which would be one of the preconditions. If I'm not mistaken, it's regulated by Article 34. GUP. But what really as a citizen of Split, so here we are living together in this city, I am interested in what might be an important reason to be in that place, so in the square of Franjo Tuđman, beneath the square of Franjo Tuđman, under the Split Procuratives, because of the garage when walking slowly on foot you can reach the space provided by the GUP of Svačić Street and there burns higher theaters, etc. which would not lead to any dilemma of the general thinking of the city of Split, I mean well-meaning. In addition, the previous consent given by the Ministry of Culture, i.e. the conservative department in Split, says that within that area, archaeological research has also been envisaged, whose results can then change all this together. My question, rhetorical question, I'm not asking you but to think about it together. Indeed, whether in this way one area that is so sensitive must be endangered, and then if we find any justification for what I think is legally at least questionable, we must compromise it seems to me, however, because of someone's partial interests whatever they were.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93089	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207(2), the time has elapsed for the individual hearing for 10 minutes. The word has a distinguished representative, Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93090	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning and Construction in First Reading, I have stated that this is a historic moment in solving the problem of spatial planning and construction, and I would really like to repeat that this is a truly historic moment in solving the problem of spatial planning and construction. The final proposal of the law, in an effective and comprehensive way, regulates spatial planning, urban co-operation and construction in one place. In a clear and enforceable manner, it regulates the full protection of space from planning, construction, environmental protection, nature protection, etc. References to the bill of law referred to by the profession, and also to the MPs, have been respected, of course, that it is not always possible to respect everything and therefore some are dissatisfied, some for a reason, some for no reason, I would rather say for no reason, because the fact that this law was passed was respected by all that had reason to pass a good law. I will not talk about the details of this law's solution in which certain problems are being solved because everything is already more or less said, but I would certainly express my satisfaction and praise to the minister and her entire team for making this law, and it was really necessary to see the whole issue properly and have the courage to bring such solutions and such a law. But I would certainly like to express my praise to the government, which has also supported the Minister's support that, through unpopular measures, he introduces order into spatial planning and building and protecting the environment. The adoption of this law concludes a burdensome chapter in the area of environmental planning and environmental protection and construction, which was a cancer-earning society for which no real solution was seen. We are witnessing that decades ago it has tried to introduce order into space with various solutions, and these attempts have resulted in the escalation of illegal construction and thousands and thousands of unsolved items of local and construction permits. This law, as well as a number of other laws, regulations and solutions made by this ministry, provides solutions to how this problem will be solved and therefore once again commended to the minister and her team, and of course I will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93091	Replica, the esteemed representative Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague Brnadić, so in a few sentences you're in, I'd say here's a nice way to praise this law, which I'm not surprised, because you belong to the ruling party, therefore it's your job not to say duty. You say, among other things, in your performance that, and you commend the ministry for respecting the opinions and observations of the profession, of course, that as you said, not all opinions can be respected, some have accepted the rejection. I once again express my suspicion that this is indeed so, because if the opinion of the profession, i.e. the opinions of the profession that have been respected or rejected, would then be mentioned in this proposal for a second reading. I was told by the Minister that this is not possible under the Rules of Procedure. However, this is not true, as Article 152. The Rules of Procedure of Rule 3 clearly states, I will read it: The legislator is obliged to state in the light of the final draft of the law the differences between the solutions proposed in the draft law, the reasons why these differences occurred, the proposals and the opinions which were given on the draft law, which were not accepted by the applicant, with reasons why he did not accept them. So it is not said whose proposals should only be listed, and these are only the comments made in the parliamentary debate either here in the assembly or on committees. And that's why I once again express my suspicion and my dilemma that indeed the profession was involved in the making of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93093	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93094	Well, here's my esteemed colleague, I have expressed my praise for my entire working life being involved in solving certain issues in spatial planning and construction, and I know very well how this has been solved so far, what problems have been, what the situation has been in the field, and indeed with this bill many things are being addressed both in a much better way and in the way that all our citizens will be satisfied. And as for the opinion of the profession, even today on the board, the minister here today said to look at the website of the Chamber of Architects and builders, so you will see what they said, and in addition to that, reading the Final Bill, I have seen that many remarks have been made. Well, of course not all remarks can always be respected, there are various interests of those who make observations and that those who pass the law must think carefully whether it will be an improvement of the law or perhaps another bad solution in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93095	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of the Chichin-Shain basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Minister with his associates. I've already said one piece in my position about this Law within the meaning of our club's opinion, but of course perhaps now you'd go to some segments to look at everything that's been going on in these months from the first to the second reading. Unfortunately, we must qualify this Law as a very bad one, and it would definitely have been much better if we had had had another reading that would have given us at least another month of time in which there would be opportunities, were the possibilities to consider once again some of the remarks and some of the attitudes that you received, regardless of what you did not give us here on the benches why you did not adopt those remarks. What Mrs Jagoda Martic said is not really defined by the Rules of Procedure in Article 152(3), that you only take note of the remarks you received in the parliamentary debate or only on the board's remarks, but says that you should be manifested at all the remarks, and let the website reference not be a way of communication between ruling and parliamentary representatives. So we can't ask for your answers to your comments on the website. As to the quality of the bill itself, we have just received 16 amendments to the table submitted by the Government, so I wonder why these amendments to the Government came to the table? Why, when there was so much time and you couldn't accept it in the regular procedure and go along with those changes? Namely, I refer to a part of my debate from the last time that I initially began to commend you in the concept section, because you have well defined the concepts, but I also highlighted those concepts that you unfortunately did not define, so there remained an undefined notion of ground floor, basement, replacement buildings or vaguely defined renovation. So here's how it is, and thank you very much for accepting it through your amendments, the best way to say, is to substitute 1.2 words with the first amendment by 1.5 meters. To add, by amendment two, to the front of the building, that is to say that at least one of its fronts is above the ground. Then you have a better defined concept of basement. In Article 48, the building will be built, etc. So thank you very much for accepting that. I would've been glad if it had gone regular, if it hadn't gone through the amendments. It's about this part. As far as the regulation relating to spatial planning and the design of plans is concerned, I must admit that I have pointed out earlier that, unfortunately, this Law is very badly processed, that in life and contrary to the opinions of the members of your club, it will bear great problems in the resuscitation of this Law and that, on the ground of 1 October of this year, we will have great problems with the emergence of new investors who will, by chance, not be eager to build what their plans offer, so when they need to make changes and changes to these plans, they will suffer from a variety of repacking and new structuring of existing planning documentation. So, I think it's slowing down the investment and construction process. I don't think the investors who are coming will have time for that, or the hearing, and unfortunately I don't think it's going to be, that it's not going to bring it back well, and I think it's going to be a very big problem. What I would certainly like to discuss here, however, is the ministry's agreement on the final proposal for a plan. These days in the media, and I would remind you that since 2005, this has been withdrawn in various newspapers. The idea of the so-called idea is mentioned. a separate building area of the catering and tourist purposes called the compressions I spoke of in the last debate. I'd like to ask you, Madam Secretary. As a ministry, you agreed to the INA implementation plan of the city of Dubrovnik, which was adopted this day, the spatial plan of the city of Dubrovnik, and as far as I know, this spatial plan is not in line with the county plan. As far as I know, he wasn't in the section. I'm asking you that, I'm not saying that. You'll answer me whether or not it is. So in the section relating to the compressions, given that this public is very interested, since a great article called "Park Chances" came out instead of "Park Nature". I'd like to ask you here is it true that the city of Dubrovnik's spatial plan is not closely agreed with the county plan? Is it true that you gave your consent on one plan and another? Is it true that it wasn't even in 2005, so last time? And is it true that this does not comply with the regulation on a protected coastal belt? I would ask you these three questions to answer me for the public who is speculating about it, that is, the inscription we have on these days, and it is also necessary for the public to say that this plan is intended for the island of Šipan, which today has 450 inhabitants to plan such a settlement, I will not say a touristic but isolated building area of the catering and touristic purpose which should have 2 thousand 400 beds. So try to think about how many inhabitants it takes to serve 2,000 400 beds, and how will this nature park Šipan, or part of Nature Park, look if it is allowed to do so? I once again emphasized Madam Minister, this has been going through the papers for two years, this is nothing new, but this is just so much so that the plan was in the assembly the other day, on the council, of the Dubrovnik City Council where it was certain, this plan was certain, that the materials were not seen, the MPs had no opportunity to see it, but they believed the word. Well, this is also an opportunity for you to read about your consent to this plan. One more thing I'd like to point out is the very procedures of the plans. There's a lot of objections you say you didn't get. So I got them from my colleagues, and I got them like I said from the Architectural College. It's one part that refers to spatial planning because it came from the part that deals with spatial planning. Then part through the Association of Croatian Architects, which refers more to the concepts in terms of what is a building gross area, in order to be better defined without a log, without a terrace, etc., for the sake of a more free expression of architectural. I'm not saying that you were supposed to accept everything but what you were supposed to give us as agents, you should have given us reasons why you didn't accept it. I am also surprised that in these amendments that we have just received on the table there is what I have already found by preparing this debate in your materials, which is Article 51, when you say that you have changed, that you have changed the item, subparagraph 1, which suggests leaving out the location or area of possible traditional activity. better to reduce to the exploitation of sea salt, building technical stones for the construction of islands and architectural building stone for the purpose of continuing on the island of Brac undisputed traditional activities. I have seen that you have accepted this proposal in part through the Legislative Committee, and I do not know why it is now appearing, says d.p. Partly accepted. Page 154. A total of 10 objections, first d.p. in Article 51, paragraph 1 is partially accepted. Then I see it again here in the amendments. Here, Amendment 5 to Article 51(2) of the subparagraph is amended and reads: Exploitation, research and exploitation of sea salt, energy minerals and raw materials. I don't know if it's two bases, maybe that's the reason, because that defines five thousand squares, five acres, but I'd say it's about the same. So I have to say the law is very large and there are a lot of things in it that change, that weren't so far. I'd like to really make it possible to build faster and better after the adoption of this law. But let the fact that the building conditions for construction facilities will not be so simple that there will continue to be a number of problems in procedures, although I do not doubt your good intentions to resolve it and to simplify the procedure. I'm afraid that just the complexity at the level of adoption of plans will be these mechanisms, those instruments that will make construction impossible. So in one hand, we're in the location permits procedures, and now we have additional location permits, and we're going to meet to make it easier for investors, but we're totally obsessing them at the level of spatial plans where we're going to have one, one catastrophic situation and that's that anything, that's going to be... The plans won't be able to revive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm afraid we didn't do a good job. But there will be time for change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93097	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93098	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Chichin-Shain! Looks like you've got a noise on your connections with the local HNS in Dubrovnik, so I need to correct you. It is not true that the city of Dubrovnik's spatial plan is not in line with the county spatial plan. That's just not true. So that plan is consistent. Secondly, he received all the necessary consent from all the ministries, as well as from the competent ministry, which will be confirmed by the minister's lady. Therefore, incorrect information is that this spatial plan is not in line with the county plan and it is incorrect that it does not have all the consent necessary. As it is incorrect that you stated that city councilmen were discussing the plan without having the basic documents on the basis of which they would have discussed. So all that was needed and these were the consent and proposal of all these amendments that were, and these are the amendments are in line with the county spatial plan and all the necessary consent has been obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93099	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague, you're talking about the Nature Park "Sipan", and I'm going to mention here another problem which is here, an article that was published yesterday and since Tuesday 3 July, where tourist construction of Dalmatia is said and then is finely written, with the final proposal to amend and supplement the spatial plan of Croatia's most exclusive island of Hvar gets 43 new tourist zones with a large area of construction. And underneath that title, Hvar's new four million squares for construction, so that's what's mentioned here and...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93101	But it's not that, don't, come back on the subject. Let's talk about the law, not...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93102	So we're talking about this law. This is the topic because it's actually a topic where we're saying that it's not the exact claims that the minister repeatedly repeats that this government has actually reduced the tourist zones. This is precisely evidence that the number of tourist zones is not reduced but that it is increasing, and there is again that dilemma that I also presented in my debate. Where are we going? And what are we doing from our shores? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93103	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93104	I thank my colleague for giving me the opportunity to respond to her line within which I will return to my theme, of course, which is the compressions, which is part of the compressions, part of which is on the island of Šipan. In fact, it is true that the ministry, or probably the ministry, has given consent and in this it is a disaster of the whole thing that the ministry supports the fact that in the spatial plan, the island is the one that has four hundred inhabitants to make such a tourist operation practically change the demographic picture of everything. And the note bene is also inside the nature park. Allow me, Madam Minister, this really isn't an expert position. And I mean, you can't convince me that it's, it's in favor of the state, not of individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93105	Well, it's not a nature park at all. That's the first thing that's not right. [[Intruder: It's not a park of nature.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93106	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93107	Thank you very much. Can I do it while they get along?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93109	I don't know where the woods are on the line, but Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam Minister with his associates, I agree with all the predecessors who said this is a very important law, a law that changes the content and the fundamental nature of the relationship that... I don't know why she's nervous. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If the forests are in Dubrovnik, they shouldn't be here. The objectives are clearly set, so what is to be achieved by this law, and I hold that this law in certain segments is well regulated by certain relationships. But the fact is also that in certain segments because of the haste or something, certain provisions are not well-complicated or we may have been able to find better and better-quality solutions that we have had a little more time. I know that this is the harmonisation of the law that we are harmonising with European legislation, but in addition to the great desire probably to improve the state of compliance with European legislation a little, I think we should not have been in a hurry and that in the time ahead we had enough space to perhaps hear one more segment better that more segments are included in the quality of this law and that ultimately the overall result would be better. In these past 40 days since the first reading many things, a lot of remarks have been adopted which is good, but how much work on making this bill has been complex, long-lasting, exhausted as one of my predecessors said, it is evident that and we heard it on the first reading that neither the chamber nor the classes of each and not the employers' associations have been able to track the speed created by this bill. But apparently, in these 40 days a lot has been improved, that they are a significant part of the remark, that it has been adopted, but there is something left that I hold, and today we have heard it on the board itself, that there is a particular need for further consideration. So I'm gonna go aim for a few things. We were talking about a geodetic project. I hope that the amendment that we have addressed on behalf of the board, and I have personally made another proposal that I hold that it is possible to resolve this challenge better, that the ministry will adopt, that you will respect the reasons for which the amendment has been set because in these sixteen amendments that the Government has delivered to the table, this problem is not respected or solved. It is also said in Article 108(3) that the evaluation committee is to be appointed the Committee for the Assessment of the Performance of the Idea Project. It is not clear from the proposed legal solutions on the basis of which criteria will assess the success of a particular project if we have in mind that authorised architects are autonomous and that, in accordance with the positive legal rules governing this matter, clearly determine what the task is and what is ultimately and the responsibility of all designers. The proposed law says that the commission appoints the county headship from the ranks of representatives of professional public institutions and other persons affirmed in the field of architecture and spatial planning, but no other article has said what are the criteria for assessing the success of the project. Furthermore, Article 125, 126, 127 states that the issue of solutions and local permits is only in the area in which the urban planning of arrangements or on organised building land has been adopted. What about, I think someone has already said, and those enclaves that have been omitted by mistake and the law suggests that county institutions will be formed in six months, that it is unrealistic to expect that units of local self-government after taking over the operation and everything else will change that speed of space-planned documents in order to bring detailed arrangements or correct certain mistakes that are normal and that happen in life. Therefore, they are significantly limited in certain segments of the possibility of building in these areas. It is also not clear in Article 191 whether an idea solution or an idea technical solution or a project as to what should be contained in the project, anything the project prescribes or what the minister will prescribe as said within 60 days or for other segments or for other articles of the law within two years. What's going to happen in that period? Won't there be a big vacuum, and won't it slow down the problem of investors despite the desire to improve it? Because as we read from the transitional provisions in Article 340, a significant part of the rules covering a number of articles is said not to list them, the minister will adopt no later than two years from the date of entry into force of this law. I also believe that this is too long a period of time and that it should be considered to significantly speed up these procedures and therefore say that I share the opinion of all those who claim to have entered this second reading too quickly if, on the basis of the proposal, we plan to enter into force on October 1st. So there was plenty of time to do so in that last fall session and leave enough space for us to be more quality in peace without any need for haste to do much better. But here's what's there. The fate of the amendments we have referred to from the remarks heard in this debate also depends on the position on this law. I hope there will be sufficient consent, sufficient responsibility that because of all those covered by this law we will make the most quality solution in favour of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93110	Thank you. Replicated representative Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Gavran, I have raised a replica for the reason that I wanted to say that what you referred to was that the profession was giving its opinions, indeed these opinions are not accepted, and it is precisely the institutions that are called architects' associations, architects' societies, so... And the Chamber of Architects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are the institutions of roof or professional institutions that must have had a lot to say about this bill, because it is precisely these people who are going to work under this law. And I think it's inadmissible actually to ignore the waist like that and the speed of adoption of this legal proposal to our benches is just talking about not wanting to go into some broader debate about what's right and what's wrong and what's not, since that law wanted to be passed. I agree with you, and that is why I suggested that the Minister go into third reading to simply allow some other things in this law to be fixed by autumn, which unfortunately did not come up with a good response, although I think that the profession after the adoption of this law will have immeasurable implementation problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93112	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko. And you didn't pick it up, so don't. It's me, now you're looking and now lift. ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I can't always look at you, I, I prefer to look at Alenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93113	Okay. I'm here. I agree with you. My colleague, yes, I agree with you. It would've been better quality, and I'd better repeat that we've been curricating more time and that we can bring this law in peace that will function for all those who will be covered by this law tomorrow in any way. From investors to supervision or to the Ministry at the end. But we have what we have. I'm sure the minister won't let us go to the third reading. I want to believe that they will accept a substantial part of the amendment that we have proposed to fix, so I believe in good faith and we will see. Time and voting are ahead of us to accept solutions that do not have political features already have quality solutions that will allow for a more significant step and longevity of this law. We are not just passing the law because of compliance with European legislation, but primarily because of us. On the other hand, I said that one part of the amendments accepted through the debate or probably through meetings that took place in the meantime, and I appreciate it on the basis of what we heard on the very Committee on Spatial Planning when we first discussed in the first reading of this law. I also have several performances, several amendments sent by the Croatian Association of Employers and the Chamber of Architects, the class of geodesy and geoinformatics, but we agreed that at least one, one part of these amendments would be accepted and we tried to resolve it through the amendment given by the Committee. So I agree with you, and we'd be better off if we had more space. I want to believe we won't be changing this law quickly. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93114	The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I think it's doubtless now that the rush to passing this law is great. Why? So the Government of the Republic of Croatia on its final proposal for a law on spatial planning and construction, so when all the working bodies processed the Final Bill proposal and proposed to the Parliament that such a government should adopt it with its amendments in haste, it provides new amendments and a new correction to the law itself. Anyone who has any knowledge of the rule-making process in the Croatian Parliament if there were no haste, the government would refer these proposals to the working bodies of the Parliament and ask them to propose them under the amendments. In this way, it would be as perfectly legal a procedure as this one, but it wouldn't show any anxiety in the government. I agree that it has already been time to pass a new law on spatial planning and construction law, but the question is whether this law meets the needs of citizens, or what policy is embedded in it? I don't think MPs should fall for the politics of any lobby or any association. Even if it were architects and builders and strong institutions, MPs would be interested in looking at the general interest, and in my opinion it should consist in whether this law ensures the construction, construction and the quality of building control and on the principles of sustainable development. Preserving the values and specificities of Croatian towns and Croatian villages. I especially mean the specificities of Croatian villages. And does it really ensure the quality of building objects? Can this be achieved by this law? There will be disputes between us for a reason, but time will confirm or deny the government and the Ministry. But the minister in the introduction says the law provides and unites everything that is necessary for those who want to build. Is this all about ensuring this law and whether it unites? If we look at the transitional and final provisions, we'll see that this finding doesn't stand. Only in Article 353 is there an exception to the 60th Article of the Construction Act. And in the very provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning, there is still a significant number of provisions that remain in force. And in Article 342, where a new organisation and a new one is envisaged, a different responsibility of the state and local self-government to implement the law is now only for the record, because the public obviously will not be able to find out that it is impossible to carry out a serious reorganisation, regardless of the lack of formal legal assumptions, such as the Law on the Part-Corruption of Ministries, in order to successfully reorganise and transfer jobs and people to local self-government within two and a half months. If we add that the law itself has 350 articles, and another 60 that are worth this huge part of the job and urbanism and construction should not stop, it should not be possible to set up a quality, satisfying way to protect the general interests of two and a half months. And that's what I want to point out. When we talk about an important segment of the parcelation, that is, how it predicts literally taking away ownership on a particular part of the plot here. Article 128, 129, 130, even does not define that possibility according to the legal standards that Croatia has, and one article says the owner will hand over to the local self-government unit. What? What's he gonna hand over? Property, property or property and part of land. So transfer to the unit of local self-government and property and property and physically hand it over. So when the possession means and physically hand it over, that is, to make it possible. This is Article 130. Article 128 should verify whether it is, and I do not think it is, whether the interest of the Republic of Croatia is established when the ownership is taken away. In fact, Article 50. The Constitution of the Republic says it is possible by law, but only in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to restrict or confiscate the right of ownership. The law does not state that it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia. That's supposed to stand. When such a measure is taken, it must be said that it is done in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and that is another thing whether it can be delegated. About speed, something else. For example, the Law on Infringements of Article 323 provides for an objective limitation period within which a period of three years after the event cannot be initiated. It's a so-called objective limitation period. But in the following article, if a misdemeanor proceedings are initiated, it may continue indefinitely. Why is such an option left for the court to conduct proceedings, start it in the third year and lead it for another five years and thus create uncertainty, and in our legal system can also be chic. Even this Article 324 in a different way ends the infringement procedure. The same provision says the penalties imposed cannot be carried out if three years have elapsed since the date of power of the infringement decision, and the limitation begins as from the date on which the offender receives the rightful decision by means of an orderly delivery. This is one way, that is, from the day the first-degree decision becomes a power of power. Why decide two dates, or two moments when it is possible to commit an offence. So, in order for someone to be in such a situation, I would say to delay the receipt of a letter from the Criminal Court and put themselves in a more favourable position because it was allowed by law. It's special, I'll come back one more time, and I won't do much more to say by the government's decree of power, it's decided to transfer jobs to cities, or local self-government, and so to speak, to transfer jobs and after them to the workers. First, it is a convenient opportunity to transfer one part of the responsibility from the state to local self-government because what is transferred or in what form and in what state...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93116	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93117	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, MP Leko said in his statement that the government has been pressured by the deadlines to propose the adoption of this final bill. Of course that's not true. Agent Leko knows Article 151 as well as I do. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament say: “The final draft law is required to be submitted within six months of the date of adoption of the bill.” Therefore, the Government could do so after 30 days, 40 days, 90 days. Whenever she filed it in this deadline for six months, that's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93118	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ante Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, Agent Leko incorrectly interpreted Article 128 by misleading the sale of property or property, so here I will only read the first paragraph of Article 128 which says very clearly: “The state and the unit of local and regional, regional self-government is required at the request of the owner of the land or of the building at market price to sell without the execution of the public tender.”
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93120	Thank you. Replicated representative of Alenko Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I replicated my colleague, Leckie, in a section that said it was about time that this law was passed. We see here in the end that we have a statement of compliance of the draft regulation with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. I would like to mention here, namely that there are very different traditions and experiences in Europe about plans and nomenclature of empty levels of spatial plans that are used in different countries today in the European Union. So there is not at all some unique, unique system that Croatia would necessarily now accept in order to align itself with Europe, because European Union countries use very different systems according to their traditional situations. So, I couldn't say that there was something going on here to coordinate with the European Union, and if it was unfortunately for my colleague, Leko, I'm afraid this law will create a big problem for people who will have to work on it, so there will be referencers who will have to work on plans, especially those who will have to work on the issue of planning documentation from building, location and other permits, because this type of law will, of course, create a problem for people. We don't have to talk about investors who suffer from investors, and you know when these conflicts are usually the product of corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93122	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93123	Thank you very much. Well, I can't take the impression that the perception of the Croatian public about the state of Croatia with spatial arrangements and urban plans is tragic, dramatic especially from the point of view of space protection. At the same time, the Croatian public knows that jobs are being obtained in the construction of companies that were founded yesterday and that they have nothing but coffins and bares. If that's settled by this law then a direct keg, welcome. But I'm not convinced of it, and that's why I'm saying it in public. Speed has determined, speed and need to pass the law at the very least with legal shortcomings, shortcomings. Let him be lectured by someone who knows the law, so you'll see how much change there will be in the provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93124	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a 5-minute debate by the distinguished representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93125	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On the basis of the debate I have heard here today, I must point out on behalf of our Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community that, according to our assessment, this is a very high quality, substantive, methodologically made final law of spatial planning and construction. Why is that? Because the preconditions for the adoption of this law were to do, it was not possible to pass that law a year ago. Our ministry headed by Minister Dropulic and assisted by the Croatian government helped our units of local self-government, those who had no funds gave them the means to create spatial plans. Here today it is said that 520 spatial plans of units of local self-government have been brought in and that by the end of the year, the rest will be done. So the basic preconditions for making this law were made. As for the participation of the professional public, I do not know which can be a greater professional public than the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction, which has five classes of architects, builders, geodetics, electricians and engineers and which total number of something less than 10,000 engineers in the Republic of Croatia that are included in the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers. All classes discussed this law. All classes made their remarks and today we discussed on our Committee on Environmental Protection and Spatial Arrangements on the observations of our colleagues who were absolutely right, no one disputed them, that in addition to those contacts that they had directly with our ministry and agreed on certain professional solutions, even today they tried to fix certain things and the Committee took some things into account and accepted the amendments and gave. And today they were on the Committee on Spatial Planning, he was a university professor at the Faculty of Architecture of Zagreb. So if someone is not within this section of 8 or 10 thousand people representing their leaders plus a debate in Opatija 10 days ago, in front of over a thousand and I don't know how many graduate engineers, where the secretary of state has laid out the basic concept of the law and where we all accepted it. We stand at the point that it is a very high-quality law, that he has settled all the necessary questions in the area of spatial construction, but he has linked this area to environmental protection, that he has arranged the issue and the regulation of construction land in units of local self-government, which we have not had at all regulated by law. These 17 years have actually not been the right solution in this regard either. That this is one system law that has qualityd the area, all in the interest of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia through a unit of local self-government, through county, all to the state, all have found their place, their right, their obligations and their powers in the realisation of spatial planning and construction. And for this reason, I would like to point out once again that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93126	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a 5-minute debate, the Honorable Vice-President of the House, Mato Arlovic. Correction of an incorrect quote, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93127	Thank you very much. I would correct the inaccuracies of my colleagues, that 525 spatial plans created conditions for the adoption of this law, because this law proposes a whole new structure of spatial design so that it de facto devastates everything that is as standardized and so far made at the level of spatial planning. I would like to know how my colleague Širac sees that changes will be made and these plans will be complemented today and how long these procedures will take.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93128	Please, Vice President Mato Arlović, 5-minute debate on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93129	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We from the MP club have already announced that we will vote on this law depending on how the amendments will pass not only the SDP club but also many other representatives, as well as the parent board, which are aimed at correcting this law. But let's give our reserves one more time. First, it is obvious that this is an attempt to codify legislative and one whole area in which laws governing spatial planning and the Construction Act should also be covered, etc. etc. That I don't list a dozen laws that are actually seen here. In other words, we have very large reserves related to the legal technique and legal instruments offered to implement this law. It's gonna be hard to tell what a building permit is when it's an administrative act or, say, when it needs to appear or a locale permit what it is, whether it's part of a spatial planning document or an administrative act. Then what is the question of an idea solution or what is the issue of individual solutions that are administrative acts. So it will be very difficult to lead in such situations very specific things that are related to the protection of citizens' rights. For the sake of illustrations, just take Article 156(2), where it is said that the delivery of the conclusion on the implementation of the commission procedure suspends some really legal powers for a citizen over his land. But the conclusion of the Constitutional Court is not a legal act, let alone an administrative legal act so that you can conduct a dispute and protect your rights. We therefore express a very serious reserve that in these instruments as they are complex and as they are placed here, they can question and pursue fundamental human rights and freedoms prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in particular from the title of protection of property rights, but also other rights. Thirdly, the process of compromise or actually behind it hides the issue of extradition, but here I warn that it is not possible in the interest of the unit of local self-government, as the law provides, but in accordance with the Constitution it is possible only in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and in this respect it was necessary to do so and to do so that, of course, it is possible to approve through the instrument of communication or the Institute of Cooperation in the Republic of Croatia when it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and then to discuss the issue to whom such a particle is given, whether it is always the unit of local self-government or the one whose interest must be protected, but it can be done by law, and not this. On the contrary, the special Exclusion Act governing these issues applies, of course, with a completely different procedure for the protection of law, the exercise of rights and, of course, the compensation that must be on the market even though it is attempted to give a legal formulation of what is considered to be under market compensation. Fourthly, we warn that, for example, the confirmation of the confirmation of the main project is not an administrative act, but let's say the building permit is an administrative act, and now the question of what is valid or an example is being raised if you take just a question of a new situation that should allow citizens to build up to 400 square blocks of objects that practically do not have to have a building permit anymore, but the question is being created, and in fact whether all of those previous actions to the idea and implementation project and the project that must be on the site does not actually collect the whole and the difficulties of the process. And, of course, it's impossible to present in 5 minutes all of our reserves and warnings that we would like to say, but it remains an example for the matter of transitional and final provisions, from the termination of the applicable regulations, where it is mentioned whether some specific provisions will be applied to the adoption of a specific law regulating the issue of construction material. Now it is interesting, and we want to welcome a special law that will regulate the issue of electricity, water, the question of all other things because it is obvious that the issue of construction material as it is trying to be, but that there are still some things that, of course, in the transitional and final provisions, can be clearly and beautifully seen when these provisions are read for a simple reason, because then you see, among other things, in the second subparagraph of the construction products, and then the question in subparagraph 2. applies to the day of entry into force of the special law governing the issues of doing business in designing expert supervision in the construction activities, etc., etc. Now it's becoming a very serious question, and what exactly did we bring? Is this law even enforceable if that is why we have to wait for this special law? This issue should, in particular, be linked to a principled remark, as this Law regulates a whole series of issues from the aspect of public authorities, but relations between investors, engineers, supervisory authorities, etc. They're not even arranged. They are necessarily legal relations and should ensure the protection of public interest in this area. For this reason, this Law should go according to us in the third reading, if possible, and if it is not possible, we will try to see with these amendments what will be done, and if we fail to fix to protect and ensure the protection of the Constitution of guaranteed rights we will have to go into constitutional and legal dispute afterwards to try to correct the law through the Constitutional Court in order to protect the constitutional rights and freedom of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93130	Please. Final review, Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93131	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I'm very sorry that the members of the SDP didn't participate in the first reading of this Law and that they clearly didn't have the opportunity to say anything at the debate itself, but we had enough time to be instructed either written or oral, so we could also discuss them. However, the fact is that everyone has the right to seek the constitutionality of the law and therefore, of course, all the people who want it. But what I must look back on is what Mr. Leco said that the government decrees who will work to take down responsibility for who will issue local and construction permits. I think that you remember that the Law on Local Self-Government was passed, that in the Law on Local Self-Government that you brought in clearly said that local and construction permits would be issued in the counties and large cities and that we were obliged, not only because of what the law said, but also because people sought and insisted both the counties and the large cities have forever objected that what right someone could issue a local or building permit from the state administration in his city, instead of doing so. All the great cities and therefore the basis of the Law on Local Self-Government adopted in this House, we have done so in this session. Therefore, there is no hurry at all because you remember well when we went to amend and supplement the Law on Spatial Planning where we wanted to determine what we wanted to do a year ago, and these are deadlines for making spatial plans. At that session, when amendments and additions to the Law were adopted, we were also asked to make a proposal for a new law. This is the conclusion that we made after three and a half years of checking all the plans, checking everything that is both building permits and local permits, as you know, we also have second-degree solutions in our ministry, thus proposing this. And once again, I must say, the professional public has been consulted. The chamber said it. The Association of Architects has made no comment. We have received comments from some architects who have written, and if you have a colleague, then you can read where it says that without his consent, nothing can be published or spoken of. So it was written by a colleague of yours, Pegan. So I think that's clear enough why we haven't responded to his remarks. Another thing that he is, for example. made comments, not comments, but considerations and certain proposals. So I don't want to talk about it anymore. We think we've met the entire public. You may not know, but I'm going around all the county and in all the counties I interpret and the law and this bill and the environmental bill. Therefore, people can react in public stands. We haven't won so far, I've been to seven public stands and I haven't been one single comment to this law. So we made sure that the public heard and knew what we were proposing. We will therefore propose and we think that we have proposed what will satisfy all our citizens and where we will come in a much simpler and faster way to issue local and construction permits. And I would just say, as far as spatial planning is concerned, spatial planning must also have the environment covered by the united conditions of environmental protection, united in its work. That's what the European directives tell us, we just have to deal with it. So it's just that there's a difference in spatial plans. The way to make spatial plans is the same as before. Therefore, there is simply no claim that some things are not respected. Therefore, I thank you all together for what you are, and yes, she asked, I should have given just one more answer. I am Mrs. MPs because they asked me directly about Dubrovnik's, Dubrovnik-Neretva County plan, the plan for Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, the changes and additions of the plan have been made. They were brought by the commissioner, after the county formed after these elections. They could go on to change and supplement the county plan that they wanted. To this day, none of them have made any changes or additions to the plan. Therefore, the plan adopted was a valid plan. The spacious plan of the city of Dubrovnik and the general plan of the city of Dubrovnik are in line with the spatial plan of the county and with our regulation, and Šipan is not a park of nature. Maybe one day Elafiti will become a park of nature, but for now they're not. As for "The Morning List" and Hvar, I continue to argue that there are no new zones, that the existing zones from the Split-Dalmatia County spatial plan have been reduced and that there are fewer than there were in 2002 and 2003 respectively when the county plan was adopted. So I thank you all together. We're not in a hurry with the law. We think the law should be passed, because it's been enough time since '94. A year to pass a new law, a more modern law and a law that will allow people to act more easily. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93132	Thank you. Correction of the quote, a respected representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. She would refer first to the correction of the allegations when the minister said that without the consent of the individual who turned to the ministry she could not publish anything. Your Honor, Madam Minister! You have already heard today when you were quoted in article 152. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 3, where it is said that you must respond to all observations. It's not just your boards or our committees that are listed anywhere. Second. I'd still like to correct one of the allegations related to Chatress. In fact, Madam Minister, it's not what I asked you, I didn't invent, I live in Zagreb, but it's an article in Feral where they ask you if you are, is it true that this isolated building area in a protected coastal belt and in the newest spatial plan of the city of Dubrovnik? So I asked you if it was in a protected coastal belt and did you know it and did you agree to it?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93134	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, second reading. We have a plate of amendments. There are 47 amendments here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93136	I suggest that by raising our hands on the amendments, we plead...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93137	Thank you. Minister, amendment to one of the Legislative Committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93138	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93139	It becomes an integral part of the law. Second, IDS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93140	We don't accept it because we're looking for a re-use of economic zones in residential areas that we can't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93141	Thank you. We should vote. There is no representative of the motionor. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The third Government of the Republic of Croatia becomes an integral part of the law. The fourth IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93142	The first part is not accepted because we are asked to set a standard for future plans, i.e. we clearly point out what the basement is, ground floor and ground floor so that there is no abuse as it has been.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93143	What's the first part?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93144	The first is in the article... and in Article 2. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They've got two parts, but it's good. But it's good, the other part we don't also accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93145	Wait, I don't get it. What does the first part mean?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93146	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93147	In Article 2(1), point 4.1, 4.3 and 4.6 are deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93148	We don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93149	What are you not accepting?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93150	It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93151	You don't accept that. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93152	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93153	So you don't accept anything?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93154	We don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93155	There's a vote to vote on. Please, who's in favor of that amendment? No one. He didn't get any votes. The Fifth Government is becoming an integral part. The Sixth Government is an integral part. The seventh government is an integral part of the law. Eight Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93156	We cannot accept it because the directive clearly says that the energy properties of buildings must be included in the law, and the certificates are issued by the Ministry what it is doing today because there is no one else who could do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93157	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just point out that this amendment should only apply to new buildings and not to the rental and sale of buildings, especially in parts of buildings, since it means that each sale of an apartment should be certified by such a certificate. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93159	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The Ninth Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93160	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93161	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 10th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93162	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93163	It's part of the law. Eleventh of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93164	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93165	It's part of the law. The 12th Alenka Koshasha MP Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93166	We accept in part that after the word of the authorised architect, the point is deleted and the words "authorised architect of the urbanist" are added.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93167	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93168	I'm happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93169	Consistent with that. So, the amendment accepted in changed form. The 13th Alenka Koshasha MP Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93170	It's unacceptable. As you know, we in law have that all zones that are less than 50% built have to be reduced by 30%. Here it's proposed to decrease by 10%. Therefore, we do not accept such a proposal especially after those callings we received yesterday and every day not to reduce tourist zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93171	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93172	Dear President, the existing provision allows for an extension of 40% of areas already exploited by 80% of the construction area in the PDO, and in an unequal position comes and punishes those who have kept and gradually built the PDO for many years. All areas are coming to the same position as proposed by the amendment. So those who have been rationally using their space in history are being punished, while those who have legally blown it even now are being honored. It's not even... and the question comes to mind, for example, the bankruptcy right of someone who had a building plot and kept it for his child, and now he is being prevented from building it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93173	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The fourteenth Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93174	It's becoming an integral part.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93175	Fourteenth.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93176	It's becoming an integral part.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93177	The 15th Government. It's becoming an integral part. The 16th Alenka Kosha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93178	We do not accept this amendment because Article 52 clearly speaks about isolated construction areas and the proposed amendment is already prescribed by the contents of the spatial plan. The spatial plans exactly say that the construction of the area, the coefficients and everything else is included.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93179	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93180	The existing provision in paragraph 1 of Article 52 makes it impossible in mostly residential settlements and in cities such as Split, Opatija or other construction of buildings of catering and tourism purposes higher than two-and-a-half floors or ground floor plus floor plus attic. This implementation means that with the reception and common rooms on the ground floor of the hotel where the restaurant and kitchen for accommodation guests will remain the first floor and attic. It also detimises the construction of a garage within a building particle. The proposed amendment enables and encourages the construction of more categorisation of economically justified accommodation buildings. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93181	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Seventeenth and the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93182	It is also not accepted, because the construction areas in isolated areas and settlements are actually mixed all the time. The settlements clearly have everything and the content is also prescribed by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93183	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93184	This is about building a single particle and a coefficient, this is about capacity. So the capacity of the individual accommodation building of a type of hotel, pension or accommodation if it is located within the area of mixed use in a building area with more than 50% of existing buildings is used for permanent housing of persons who have a residence in the village, we ask that it be determined by the plan. The proposed amendment also enables the building of more economically justified buildings which are for the higher categorisation of these facilities. I demand a vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93185	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18 Governments, becoming an integral part of the law. 19 IDS MPs' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93186	It's unacceptable. As we said in the debate instead of the GUP which is too much of a plan for us, we foresee more detailed urban planning plans. So the entire area for which the GUP is working can be done now and urban planning, and the content of GUP's spatial plans and urban planning have overlapped particularly with what the general urban plans will remain for 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93187	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20 also Club of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93188	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93189	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get any votes. 21 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93190	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93191	It becomes an integral part of the law. 22 IDS reps clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93192	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93193	It becomes an integral part of the law. 23 also Club of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93194	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93195	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get any votes. 24 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93196	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93197	Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. 25 Governments, becoming an integral part. 26 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93198	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93199	It becomes an integral part of the law. 27 Clubs of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93200	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93201	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 28 representatives of Mate Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93202	It shall not be accepted for reasons of acceptance of the next amendment No 29 of the Spatial Editing Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93203	Representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. No matter what this next amendment does, it sort of complements the missed, I think this is a more quality expression and that, in terms of not having a regulation prescribed by all or by the basis of the law, the rules will not be passed until two years from now, there remains a void. I ask the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93205	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 29.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93206	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93207	It becomes an integral part of the law. Alenka Kosha's 30 MPs Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93208	It's unacceptable. No matter what's wrong and written, we know what's in the explanation, the coster. We believe that the coster must be an integral part of the main project because it speaks about the description and quantity of works.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93209	A representative of the Chichin-Shain basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93210	Yes, there really is a tipfeller, it's not an item, it's an alinea, but I don't think it makes a measure of things, so you've understood what the amendment refers to. So the coster is produced in the phase of the implementation project. There is not enough data in the main project to make the coster a quality design. Neither is this a public interest nor is it an obligation for the state to interfere in the relationship between investors and contractors because it is a cost-effective document under which contracts are signed. Weak projects should be complemented by other descriptions and technical specifications. So it would be much better if it said that the main project could contain the coster, but not that it had to contain it, because it's really funny that for a agricultural hall that has 600 squares we do locksmiths and then we do costers. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93211	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 31 also representatives of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93212	It's unacceptable. If, in Article 209(1), paragraph 1 deletes what the representative proposes, the whole of that item would be unambiguous. We shall remain with Article 209(1) and it shall not be in conflict with Articles 213 and 215.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93213	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93214	Therefore, at the stage of an idea project for the implementation of building conditions, no project of documentation is developed to demonstrate mechanical resilience and stability, and to save energy and heat protection because it is an integral part of the main project. It is also necessary to adopt this amendment because it is contrary to Articles 213 and 215. Does this mean that buildings are up to 400 square meters or agricultural buildings up to 600 square meters, for example? Hall, 20x30 won't have to do static, i.e. There will be no need to do documentation proving mechanical resilience and stability, and it will not be mandatory because we know that this is not a mandatory part of the idea project. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93215	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 32 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93216	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93217	It becomes an integral part of the law. 33 Government, it becomes an integral part of the law. 34 also Government, becoming an integral part. 35, 36, 37, 38 Government, becomes an integral part of the law. And 39 Governments, part of the law. 40 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93218	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93219	It becomes an integral part of the law. 41 IDS representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93220	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93221	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 42 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93222	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93223	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 43 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93224	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93225	It's part of the law. 44 of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93226	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93227	It becomes an integral part of the law. 45 of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93228	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93229	It becomes an integral part of the law. 46 Government, becoming an integral part. 47 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93230	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93231	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 85 votes for, 5 abstentions and 6 against, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction was passed in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted. We are going to the next item - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 670 Proposer is Government, second reading. The Committees on Legislative, Information, Information and Media, the Constitution, Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and European Integrations held a debate. State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture Jadran Antolovic will further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93233	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media aims to fully comply with this part of the legislation with the acquis of the European Union, with regard to the competence of the Republic of Croatia and the activities of television broadcasters in the Republic of Croatia, the protection of minors, advertising and telecommunications, the mandatory majority share of European audiovisual works and arrangements... strengthening the Council for Electronic Media in the addition and establishment of the Agency, which will allow for better quality monitoring of law enforcement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also like to point out that we accept amendments, all amendments to the Committee on Law, since all amendments are aimed at a clear statement of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93234	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Dear representative Mirjana Didovic. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93235	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I will just look back at some of the amendments that the SDP Club has now given in this second reading, but in the second reading, it has been repeated by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. And you can see from the explanation of the final bill that you did not respect these amendments at first reading when you proposed this final proposal to amend and supplement the law. First of all, this part of the amendment came from the Gender Equality Office or the Committee for the Monitoring and Assessment of Gender Equality Policy in the media and refers to production, in fact, to the financing of a programme which would, among other things, be to encourage the development of awareness of gender equality concerns Article 23, where it is proposed to add, in Article 57(1), the new sub-paragraph, which would, in effect, enable the funds of the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media, among other things, to encourage production and publication of software content that would encourage the development of awareness of gender equality. Mr Secretary of State, when you explained why you did not accept this amendment when drawing up the final proposal, you said that it literally writes this way: "According to the Council of Europe's recommendations on the achievement of the diversity of content, gender equality is not stated in the sense that the content relating to this equality is intended to be produced and reported.", i.e. this principle of dignity and the equivalent value of every human being refers only to that it would not be injured in any television programme rather than in terms of specific production and content broadcasting. This explanation of not accepting such an amendment actually indicates a complete lack of understanding of the constitutional provision on gender equality and full ignoring of existing legislation in Croatia, primarily the Law on Gender Equality, the Media Law and national policies to promote gender equality. Last year, in September, the Croatian Parliament adopted a new national policy to promote gender equality, which was adopted here, and there is a national policy in the assessment of the situation when we talk about the media is literally like this: "The media in Croatia do not have a gender sensitive policy, the portrait of women is sexy, there is no awareness of gender democracy, gender inequality is confirmed both in qualitative and quantitative ways of showing women and men. Stereotypes of sexual roles still widely accepted today in Croatian culture and everyday life and through education and media make strong obstacles to achieving real equality among women in men." This is literally a quote from the Croatian national policy on promoting gender equality. A Article 16(1) The Law on Gender Equality says media will promote the development of awareness of women and men's equality through programming concepts and the Media Law Article 8(2) says that the production and publication of software content relating to the promotion of awareness of women and men's equality will be encouraged. Accordingly, in order to overcome the situation as it is today, this national policy is also referred to as the introduction of a gender sensitive policy into the media, among other things indicating a special measure: "the means of production and or co-production of gender-sensitive media content will be allocated and media space will be provided for the broadcasting of gender-sensitised content produced in independent production". The way that you have explained here that you do not accept it, I repeat, is talking about one misunderstanding at all what this constitutional provision of equality is because I cannot agree that we about gender equality when it comes to inter alia and the electronic media will agree to whether or not we will assess whether in any advertising a man or woman is showing up or showing up in a subordinate position. Well, I guess we're not gender equality policy when it comes to the media. Because I'm going to quote Article 5 again. The law on gender equality says when it says what gender equality is, it says that women and men are equally present in all areas of public and private life, that they have equal status and equal opportunities to achieve all rights as an equal benefit to the results achieved. Mr. Secretary of State, I really ask you and I call upon you to, therefore, in accordance with the amendments that have been written here and on the final proposal of the law, to respect these amendments and to encourage, through this fund resulting from the Law on Electronic Media, the financing and production of programmes that will in a special way raise awareness of gender equality in Croatian society. And the second thing I would like to say in particular, and in this way also to support the amendment and the remarks made by the Ombudsman for children, or the Ombudsman for children, and when it comes to first reading, here is one part of the part that has been accepted in the second reading. However, I want to, the club has sent a proposal for these amendments to the procedure, I believe you will consider them but I would especially like to warn myself of something and invite both colleagues and colleagues from the ruling party to accept this amendment or call on the Government to see if it can formulate the amendment itself in this regard. Namely, I remind us all of the debate we had here on the Ombudsman's report for children for the past year, where in one part there was also talk about the incomparability of the content shown through our media, and therefore through electronic media when it comes to children. At that time, I too, and it seems to me that in some way there was approval of other colleagues and colleagues who called for the government to accept counsel's suggestions for children and to finally define what it was among other things was pornography or what it was without reason violence. In this regard, the Ombudsman proposes that Article 2(1) be complemented by an explanation of the meaning of pornography and groundless violence. This is essentially related to the formulation referred to in Article 8 which is complemented by Article 15. The law on electronic media. However, we also feel that it is necessary in Article 2 to enable adequate law enforcement to explain this especially because when you try to indicate that some content that appears in some medium of pornographic content then this medium will be defended in a way that neither of us is defined what pornographic content is, or what pornography is. We propose that, as the Ombudsman suggests, for a possible explanation of the meaning of the term of pornography, what the Constitutional Court of Croatia has yet to adopt in one decision since '98. For years and for that to be possible, that explanation of pornography can then be put into this law. We also support the lawyer's efforts to primarily be children, but not only children, but everyone else's protection against what we call reckless, from programs that show senseless violence. And here she suggests that it is defined as the kind of violence that is manifested outside some informational or documentary programme that has its reasons. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to reconsider the amendments that have come from the SDP club but I also point out the amendments of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities and to either amend them through their possible amendments or by accepting these in the final proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93236	Thank you. The Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93237	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would go from a question which the proposer, which the legislator did not include, and on the basis of the opinions and remarks that have been made in the debate so far. I agree with my colleague Sobol that gender issues certainly in this and not only in this law, but in all the laws of the Republic of Croatia... Perhaps, according to the Council of Europe's recommendation, this is not regulated and in this respect I agree that this law and other laws should not be harmonised in the light of this recommendation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But don't cross us, I think we even have an obligation to bring it into line with our own constitution. There can be no justification for the non-compliance of our law with our Constitution because some recommendation by the Council of Europe has not been resolved. We are in Article 3. The Constitution explicitly prescribed that gender equality is also one of the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and are the basis for interpreting the Constitution and for this reason it is clear that the issue of gender equality in all segments in which they appear as part of the creation, implementation and presentation of programmes, i.e. the management and management of television projects and television. The other thing we'd like to do, especially if I wanted to point out. You know, when it is said that betting, gambling, gambling machines are not prohibited by the border-free television directive and the European Convention, then a question is really asked, or, for example, is not regulated by the Council of Europe's recommendation on particularly harsh concepts of violence, forms of violence, what does that represent, etc. Then they can have some understanding again if the issue is so closely observed. But I have to remind you of article 62. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is very explicit, quotes: “The state protects motherhood, children and youth, and creates social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life. It would be hard to imagine that among other things... Violence, racketeering or games with machines at risk and gambling considers the sources of income that are worthy, necessary for a decent life and form of work for a decent life that should raise our children and our youth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that such remarks simply cannot be avoided and, in addition, in addition to Article 62, there is also Article 16. The Constitution. There is a possibility that even when it comes to freedom and rights, there is a certain right or a law to be fully exempt if it comes to those cases, I will be very precise even when it comes to freedom and rights, and then it is said: “Freedom and rights can only be limited by law to protect the freedoms and rights of other people, and legal order, public morality and health.” I do not know who interprets public morality in Croatia, which, according to our average, public morality in Croatia, would be normal to obtain funds for life based on gambling in casinos, in bookshops, in gambling machines, or where it is to show such content that has a particular form of violence, because possibly some of these forms of violence are not prescribed by law, so it would apply the principle... Son of a bitch, let's write down this law that it's a violation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's write it down, so for God's sake, I have to say I rarely watch television like most of you for the simple reason we're not home. But we have such content in television programs that often when you come to Western European countries, certain films that show up there are forbidden or can only be viewed with a special fee by persons over the age of 18 because they are particularly brutal movies with extreme violence... to your youth and your children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this respect, I think that these things should not happen and should not be allowed because something is not covered by a recommendation should not be ignored by its own Constitution. Another thing I'd like to say. You know, according to the legal gains of the recommendations are not legal acts of the Council of Europe, and in this respect we can talk about instructive forms of possible harmonisation, but it is far more important to bring this into line with its law and with the directives that exist in the Council of Europe, and therefore it should also be taken into account. Third. I have to be surprised that in fact, a small door was held by the National Fund for the Encouragement of pluralism and diversity of electronic media. He would now become an integral part of the agency and, most importantly, become a residual majority. After all the work and costs of the agency are settled, then what remains would practically be for the settlement, development and promotion of pluralism and equality of electronic media. I don't think that's a good question because it's very precise. For example, if you look at a new article 25, it says: “The money spent under paragraph 7 of this article becomes the income of the fund,” and then “the agency’s working funds include funds for paying the directors of the agency, members of the board, insurance, etc. etc." and they are actually... What did we start the fund for? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To promote pluralism and equality of electronic media if we will practically finance the agency itself. The agency should be an organisation, a public administration that must have other sources of income, not this. So we need to talk about it quite seriously and I don't think this law is really... to adopt from the point of view of the objectives and content to be achieved by the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, we have tried to offer as a club some of the amendments that primarily concern the protection of the dignity of children and youth, then the question of gender equality, so if you want to even question sexual behavior in public spaces and in public media. But it certainly isn't enough to fix all these shortcomings that the law has and therefore I personally won't be able to support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93238	Replicated representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93239	Thank you. Mr. President, I would like to point out once again that it is not a question of what is in the directive, the recommendations of the Council of Europe, or in the European Convention on Inter-border Television, are not a question of what is said in the directive. Because, in its preamble, the principle of equality between women and men is listed as one of the fundamental principles of this Convention, but not only in that sense, that principle would not be violated in any television programme. Once again, it seems to me that there is a problem of interpretation, interpretation of this provision and then of the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Media and National Policy. And I'd like to be in the replica about the problem of betting advertising, gambling, happiness machine, and so on where it's also said that it's not prohibited by the border-free television directive and the convention by supporting, and I also support the amendments that we gave to the club's name, but I want to warn about something that happened recently and then say that it might not be surprising to this Ministry's position when you didn't know but there's something, called the Agency for Adult Education under the Ministry of Science. We have passed the Law on Higher Education, so I would ask to direct everything, although I have also warned the Minister in a leaflet that promotes lifelong learning and education. And the agency therefore invites citizens to lifelong education. Among other things, what you need to learn your whole life, among other things, is to better play games or bookshops. It literally mentions the bookies and the result you're about to achieve. That's what the adult education agency book says. As chairman of the Committee, I sent a letter to the Minister. I believe he reacted although I have no feedback on whether that flyer was withdrawn?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93240	The reply to the replica of Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93241	Here I answer more to this replica for the reason that we are actually making further arguments about how we should respect our Constitution. You know, talking about freedom is as abstract as rights if we don't secure borders and conditions that we can achieve both freedom and rights of all. And that is exactly what our Constitution, in Article 14 of 1990, always states, regardless of all changes and additions, has never changed that provision, has been guaranteed. The Constitution, again, will quote: "Every person in the Republic of Croatia has the right and freedom regardless of his race, skin color, sex, language" and so on and so on. And they're all equal before the law. And then the Constitution also says in Article 26: "All citizens of the Republic of Croatia and foreigners are equal before courts and other state and private bodies that have public authority." Television and the agency have public authority. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues must not be called to that recommendation at all. That in the recommendation of the Council of Europe and in some of its... lack of gender equality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no excuse not to elaborate that equality is in line with our Constitution and our regulations and in accordance with this Convention on Economic and Human Rights and Freedoms of the United Nations and the Council of Europe. That is why I think that this question should be fully, completely different and very seriously worked out and arranged. This is a very important issue, as is the very important issue of public morality. It's inadmissible what everyone knows is that the immoral form of obtaining income. So it's not illegal, but it's immoral, undermining that, for example, public television is advertised or today, tomorrow after we change this law to start advertising how good it is instead of actually doing your own income, you have to gamble, you have to go to casinos and secure games on machines, actually getting such income. Because here is a recommendation from the Council of Europe that does not prohibit it. So you... We don't want that part on TV. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fee for such advertising on electronic media is very high. And, of course, from the point of view of interest and for the profit of these electronic media, they're going to be spinning around a lot. Therefore, I think that this should certainly be developed and the least that can be done is to adopt the SDP amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93242	Thank you. Five-minute debate, on behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93243	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Before the countdown begins, I must say that we did not hold a session of the Committee today and that we could not analyse a whole series of concrete remarks concerning improving the text from nomotechnical to content elements of contradiction in the law itself and so on. So I don't know what the status of this debate is, since this information committee didn't have a session on this subject. But you're probably going to solve the status issue, so I'm not going back to what should be repairs or at least the need to resolve some of the elements of the law, so I'm just going to have some, some of them, called tomorrow, but I think it's too late. Because this debate would probably look different if respected ministry colleagues could have been criticised by some of the individual elements of this law of dissension and so on. They'd probably have answers, and there'd probably be a reason for some of the amendments. This way we'll just say what we're not happy with? So let us put what we are not satisfied with in a few elements or in a few flash situations. First, the political context. The law is kind of anti-dated. It calls for the 1989 directive and the 1997 amendments, and a new directive has been adopted, or a new directive has not been adopted even though the text is known. It's just, how can I say it's hard to explain the reasons for the adoption of this law at this point that is harmonized with something that is likely to take and later some additional... Or at least a declarative statement that we agree on that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is also one also political, in the political context of anomalies, which is that the tendency is to increase the independence of the regulatory body, and here there is in some way a tendency to collect the regulatory part more and more without saying autonomy, but therefore with the emphasis on the position of the director of the agency at the same time and as President of the Council. This is to the extent that it is anomalous to even mention it, it is not also agreed that, in some ways, it is two people who give the Parliament a report. Once the Director of the Agency and twice the same person as the President of the Council. It would be possible to fix but it turns out that the law is actually not in line and that it could not be thought out enough and especially because a huge problem arises from what is changing, key things change. The legal position of the Agency shall be changed. It changes the statute, changes the legal personality. In fact, there is a situation where, after this law is passed, all its acts will have to be reinstated and everything about going to the Parliament over and over again. So we have one deregulation without real need. At the same time, nothing substantial changes compared to the previous law. It is not clear what it is necessary and since we cannot reveal the reasons for this law now, it is very difficult to support this law. They remained, and we also warned in our first reading of some very important terminology. Calling on non-existent terms that cause legal uncertainty, which is multiplex, which is a network operator of digital radio or television, which is a multiplex operator, which is a co-regulatory and self-regulatory. These are the terms which should be explained for this reason, especially in the context of reporting and the Internet and possible large powers of certain persons who might appear in these functions, while at the same time not knowing in what sense they need and what their competences are. Secondly, I am saying this in the context of a new regulation that could not be respected here. There are a whole series of new terms that certainly have Croatian equivalents but that should be answered. What's "salest playment", product placement. This is terribly important in view of the anomaly that in one place we have regulated that it is very difficult to get a concession on TV and elsewhere, in some ways, TV is almost excluded or it is said that there must be no one in the TV store. You don't even know what relationships are between all these elements. The law is extremely inconsistencies. I think it's crucial that there's actually no real need for him, and that's what I'm going to end the whole story with. We have quite developed media legislation that has been developing in recent years not only for the mandates of the previous government but also for the mandate of this government. Laws have been passed that are likely to represent very high quality laws individually in the context of European laws. But between all of them, what is the biggest problem is that there is a certain non-consistency. I think if something should be done now or next time it is primarily these laws to align each other not to interfer each other and to be consistent with the overall meaning of the legislation and with the meaning of our legislation and with the meaning of harmonisation. It would be more important to comply with these laws than to bring new ones. But it's certainly a political decision. You've decided so far to go on amending and supplementing the law as it is, it's extremely contradictory, it has extremely great weaknesses and our main observation is that it's unnecessary, it's unnecessary in relation to what is really necessary. Of course, by supporting what the SDPs said earlier, I must say that we cannot support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93244	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Jadran Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93245	First of all, I want to thank you for the debate. We'll consider the amendments we tabled. I only regret that those who discussed gender equality did not notice that in Article 12. The Law on Electronic Media is an obligation for every publisher of electronic media to fight in its programming content for equality between women and men. So it's his obligation, and it's unusual for us to encourage him financially to carry out his obligation. I must also say that the directive discussed by MP Vujić on audio-visual services will only be adopted in the 9th month, and then we will be before the harmonisation of our media legislation as this now represents compliance with the aquis communautaire and, consequently, all of your remarks that are going to be made in order to bring this text into line with the acquis we will gladly accept because this need to complement really good our media legislation that is well confirmed and that we have just opened negotiations in this area the other day with the finding that it is almost fully consistent with the acquis with some of the supplements that we are trying to make in this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93246	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And another, final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. I'd like a representative of Tonci Vujic, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93248	Mr President, I think that the Parliament should know that this law did not pass the working body because the working body could not meet, and otherwise it is about significant remarks and very serious objections and also about the unnecessary production of this law since it will change very quickly when it is in line with a directive that has otherwise been prepared and with which it has not been brought into line. I don't think it's necessary to vote on this right now, and we'd better leave it in, get it in line. Anyway, the element that the board hasn't seen him, I think the Parliament should be warned.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93249	Unfortunately, the board didn't meet. Here you go. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93250	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93251	It becomes an integral part of the law. Second, the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93252	It is not accepted, given that the display of pornography and senseless violence is prohibited by law, and the supervision of the implementation of this provision is carried out by the Council for Electronic Media as usual and prescribed by European standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93253	A SDP representative club, a respected representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93254	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State yesterday when I explained why we took over, or supported this amendment because it was a request and counsel for children. It is addressed to your ministry and to the first reading of these amendments and additions, which is what the problem is is, in fact, that we all speak and object to the great amount of violence that is manifested, which we are exposed to through our electronic media because we are having a debate about whether or not some content is pornographic, and we refuse to provide an explanation as a legislator, or a definition of what pornography is or what unfounded violence is. And if you send any comment to any editor regarding the possible display of inappropriate content of the type pornographically, you will get the answer that no law defines what pornography is and what it is. I, in my second year in this House, will remind the representatives of the ruling coalition, including you from the government, that when a report is discussed by the Ombudsman for children, then we will all be able to post a poster over this report and support the Ombudsman in her struggle to protect children from such scenes primarily in our electronic media, and when we have the opportunity to legally resolve it then in this way we reject it. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93255	On the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club, we will vote manually. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Third, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93256	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93257	It becomes an integral part of the law. Fourth, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93258	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93259	It becomes an integral part of the law. Sixth, HSP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93260	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93261	It becomes an integral part of the law. Fifth, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93262	It was not possible to accept this amendment by accepting the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93263	Thank you. Seventh, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93264	Amendments are not accepted. The law stipulates protection against endangering the physical, mental and moral development of minors, which means that it protects the population up to 18 years of age, and the proposed amendment seeks the protection of children, which is normally considered a person up to 14 years of age in Croatia's legal practice. Therefore, by adopting the proposed amendment, protection against minors would be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93265	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93266	You can see when you finally smiled, what you think about your own explanation and when you talk about this amendment, Mr Secretary of State, because this amendment went to the fact that no software content is allowed that can seriously endanger physical, intellectual, emotional, social and/or moral development of children, especially those content involving pornography or unfounded violence. If you have already, I don't think the argument is right for you, with that being the case, then you could accept this amendment with the amendment that instead of children stands the expression of minors, although it is to discuss how much Croatia applies the Convention on the Rights of the Child when it comes to names. We went with this amendment because development psychology shares the child's development as a general human function on physical, intellectual, emotional, social and moral, and therefore in this regard we went with a proposal to supplement this article of the law and I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93267	Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93268	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93269	It becomes an integral part of the law. Nine. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93270	Amendments are not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The law on electronic media prohibits any form of discrimination we believe is not to be repeated in particular when it comes to self-rule and telemarketing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93271	Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93272	I am as confident as we are at the SDP club that we should always be repeated because otherwise we are extracting that some of the provisions of the law are not clear enough and that it is spoken more in general than in particular. Therefore, we have proposed that Article 17a paragraph 1 point 2 is amended to, to read, include any discrimination based on race, sex, age, appearance, nationality or material position. At the same time, we had in mind primarily minors who, through our advertising, were exposed to this kind of discrimination. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93273	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ten. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93274	The amendment is not accepted. The explicit regulation of the ban on betting, gambling and gambling is not common in European legal practice, but is left to the regulatory body, in our case the Council for Electronic Media, and according to the rules on gambling for minors is forbidden to participate and access in these cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93275	Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93276	Mr Secretary of State, in our country, it is also prohibited for minors to access alcohol and tobacco products, so I guess we are all witnesses every day when you enter a store to sell tobacco products and alcohol without a problem, and when we talk about bookshops, casinos and gambling machines because it is not solved in the same way in the countries of the European Union, it does not mean that we cannot solve in Croatia, and it is proven that participation in gambling, gambling and gambling machines can lead to much addiction. We are therefore asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93277	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ten. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93278	That's the one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93279	Excuse me, 11. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93280	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93281	It becomes an integral part of the law. 12. Consumed. 13. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93282	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93283	14. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93284	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93285	It becomes an integral part of the law. 15. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93286	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93287	Accepted. Is accepted 15 Okay. [[Intruder: Yes, accepted.]] 16. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93288	Since he was accepted on 15, it was consummated.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93289	Consumed. 17. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93290	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93291	It becomes an integral part of the law. 18. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93292	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93293	19. The board.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93294	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93295	20th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93296	He accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93297	21st of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93298	He accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93299	22nd of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93300	He accepts 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93301	And 23rd of the same committee. HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go, Committee President, Vice President Luka Bebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93302	I suggest that today we do not vote on the final adoption of the law because of consultation and agreement of the position.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93303	Thank you. Then we will not vote on it, as well as on some other laws that have been discussed as amendments and amendments to the Law on Copyright, the Law on Foreigners, the Law on Asylum, and we will vote on it next time. I'm interrupting the session now. Continuing Wednesday with the agenda of amendments and additions to the Family Law and the Government and the HSS and the Household Act and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act. It's Wednesday. I'm interrupting the session. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media here needs 77 votes for. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. 84 for and 1 against, 17 abstentions, 1 abstentions, 17 against, a law passed by qualified majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93306	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. With this proposal to amend and supplement the Agriculture Act, and according to the report, according to the Government and the debate, in fact with decisions on the home Committee on Agriculture, it is clear that the injustice done to citizens in municipalities, agricultural producers in municipalities and cities of the third group of public care will obviously not be corrected. Namely, it's about the next one. By amending and supplementing the Agriculture Act since July 2003, all agricultural producers in the municipalities and cities of the third group of specific public concerns have lost the right to support whose objective is to compensate for the worse results of production which arise due to the difficult conditions of production. These amendments to the laws left the right to support the municipalities and cities of the first and second groups of special public care, islands and Peljesac peninsula, mountain-mounted areas and areas of unfavourable hydrological and pedological properties. The municipalities of the third group of special public concerns, there are 68 in 17 counties, when only milk producers remained only in 2006 they remained damaged for the total when we talk about aids, for a total of 38 million kuna. According to data from the Central Laboratory for the Control of Milk of the Croatian Stock Centre of the Municipality and the cities of the third group of state care, a total of 96 million milk was collected from the municipalities and cities of the third group, when the support they lost was included, and by 2003 they were entitled to it, totalling around 39 million. When viewed by the Countys of Osijek-Baranja County no more than 8.2 million, Brod-Posavina County 7.2 million, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska 5.2 million, Vukovar-Srijemska 4 million and Virovitica-Podravska 3.5 million, or this is a total of 72% of the total amount lost by the municipalities of the special public care of the third group by 39 million. According to the government's explanation, the government is saying, I quote, that the experience so far shows that there are measures that apply to the first and second groups, which is true, and not to the third group, and because the municipalities are not taxed in law which is not true, because in the law of the municipalities of the specific public concern of the third group municipality are taxed. Furthermore, given that there are certain measures that are identical and similar for both the third group and the mountain-mounted areas, units of local self-government cannot at the same time have status and mountain-mounted areas and third groups of municipalities of special public concern which is also not true. And another detail just to clarify the difference that is obvious to the government as well. The difference between municipalities or criteria based on which some municipalities and cities are included in the third group of special public concerns, and on the other hand in the mountainous and mountainous areas. For the third group of areas of special state care, the municipalities which have been assessed as parts of the Republic of Croatia which are lagging behind on the economic development criteria relating to the identification of areas which are economically lagging behind, then the criterion... the difficulty of identifying an area with marked unemployment problems, industrial and agricultural restructuring and a democratic criterion relating to the identification of areas of particularly unfavourable demographic indicators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These three criteria, which I mentioned, I think they talk enough about the need for these municipalities to enter the support system they had until 2003, and the amendments to the 2003 law left them without those needs. For mountain-mounted areas, I quote the law of mountain-mountan areas within the meaning of this Act are areas of interest and under special protection of the Republic of Croatia in order to promote demographic renewal. I think it is enough to compare the criteria for municipalities from a special state-owned third group and the definition criteria for which a municipality or city enters a mountain-mounted area. I think that fact is saying enough about, I won't tell the deliberate neglect of agricultural producers in the municipalities of a third group of public concerns. Not to be too long, given the government's opinion and given the uncertainty of not supporting this legislative proposal, and this legal proposal, according to the model that we are very successful in Varazdin County, could open 480 new stands with 20 cows each. That's about 100 million kuna of extra income somewhere. However, this information is not enough to give the government a positive statement on this legislative proposal. And I think he's moving away from the recent, we've recently had opportunities to hear a program that carries Croatia equal chances. Recently, we had opportunities to hear about the budget for just society. I think that by not supporting this legal proposal, consistency in the implementation of the promised is still present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93307	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93308	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I answered on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club to say a few words about this bill, not only because my colleague Koračević is a member of our club, but also for three other reasons. One is the correcting of injustice. Take a look at the list of these municipalities, which are in the third group of areas of special state concern and you will see that moving these parts of the Republic of Croatia from areas where the state intervenes with its incentives and with the intention to help them develop actually prolongs injustice, i.e. increasing the injustice that e. from the fact that in such areas they are in, that they have had such history as they had and that they are mostly as poor as they are. The other two reasons concern ours, so I can say the joint parliaments of the Croatian Democratic Union and the Croatian People's Party, i.e. the reverse Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Democratic Community, because we launched these paroles a while ago, HDZ accepted them and well that it accepted them. They're good passwords. The first is just society. Let's all try to create a situation where people will feel equal, in which they will feel justly treated by the state government. These municipalities in the third group of areas of special state care did not enter that group, I do not know by any miracle of nature or by a decision of some more force, but because they belong there. It's fair to leave them there. Another of our common parole is the same chance. Farmers in these municipalities do not have the same chances as in developed parts of the Republic of Croatia's nearby centres, better organised and traffic, infrastructure and with better staff structure and such. Well, now, because of these two common parolees, it would be the turn to accept this proposal. In fact, this is not about areas of particular national interest as the Government interprets it. The entire Republic of Croatia is of special national interest to the Republic of Croatia. It's areas of special state concern, but it's taken care of because they need it. They needed boredom, so there's nothing like it that they shouldn't be worried about right now. The municipalities are not sorted into these three groups of areas of special state care the first, second, third by value criteria for the Republic of Croatia, by the criteria I do not know which, but are sorted under conditions they do not have to meet in this society. For this third group, the government simply cut off the spaghetti and left them off that train. So once arbitral, practically arbitral decision, one good part of the agricultural producers in these underdeveloped areas was left at bay and they were prevented from actually dealing with this business further. It is 38 million kuna a year that these areas get less for which these people are damaged and we are convinced that it is not money that would be so crucial that the budget of the Republic of Croatia could not have been without it, which is money that would give these people a chance for a better future. So we urge you to accept the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93309	Thank you very much. Cola Koračević would you like a final review? No, I don't. Then I'm closing the argument. Proposal for a law amending the Agricultural Act. The legislator is representative of Zlatko Koračević. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. You can't accept the law. Please vote. The result? With 64 for, 2 abstentions, 28 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93312	Thank you very much. I thank you for this opportunity that in this late hour and yet you can see that, I say a few words about a law that I have no illusion of not getting or not getting support, not because it's not a good law, but simply because we're working, I'm afraid that we are working in a way that prefers more to seek a solution to retain power or remain in power rather than how to solve serious citizens' problems in this country. I'll say this. The World Bank's findings and their research into poverty in Croatia, a major research on poverty that the UNDPs also organised last year show one for our country incredibly serious, serious and extremely compromising data. In Croatia, the greatest risk to poverty is the greatest risk to poverty, the greatest risk to poverty is old age. Seven times older people are at risk of poverty than younger people. And especially that group of people who came out of the working contingent are no longer in the active population and have no pension. And now let's try to imagine a city the size of Slavonski Brod, so some sixty thousand people who have been deprived are really deprived of any elementary, existential living conditions. Sixty thousand out of a total of 133 thousand people over 65 don't have any pensions and no property at all. So these are definitely people who have nothing to live on. And there is no measure and there is no means to reduce poverty that would be more effective and well targeted than what we propose to this law. So, this law suggests that for all those citizens of Croatia who are 65 years old and over, who have not obtained the right to retire and who have no property whatsoever, then with an asset censorship to ensure what we have called a social pension. It's about that amount of money that doesn't guarantee I don't know how solid existence but it's about 640 kunas that might represent a key step in making these people move towards a civilized life. Who cares about those 13,000 people? If you've ever had a chance to go and visit the Banian Kukke or Kordunski and see lonely old women or not, abandoned Slavonian villages, living without water, without electricity, literally on the edge without existence and completely hungry. Then you will be able to understand why we need such a law, because there are 17 members of the European Union in Europe. We therefore propose by this law that all those who are at that age, who do not meet the basic property criteria, therefore do not have income of 10% of the budget base, I remind you that this budget base has been 4 thousand 226 kuna for five years, to ensure such pensions for them if it is about singles of 640 kuna or a thousand kuna for a couple of such people with such low incomes. This whole serious story and serious social giving would be about 23 million kunas or 250 million kunas a year, and that reminds me of only a few kilometers of highways that I have to build for, but we would get out of that absolute misery really 60 thousand the poorest who can't help because they've lost their ability to work. What kind of objection and reason did we have from the government to reject such a proposal? The reason is that this is not a pension because pension as in Croatia is exclusively paid out of contributions. It's a completely unfounded argument because in the pension system, 42% of the country's budget participates, not in the pension system. So, we already have a fiscalised pension system and 42% means almost so half of it speaks of how the citizens of this country have settled through taxes and not through contributions and have the right to all citizens to participate in the redistribution of the money collected by taxes, and these poorest citizens of ours have the right. So, that objection is off. Secondly, we've changed the pension system. He no longer rests and never rests exclusively on the principle of the public. So how many payments and how much debt and pensions. That's not true. We have in the pension system the principle of solidarity, we have the highest pensions, we have the lowest pensions and so there already comes a certain redistribution between those who should get more and those who should get less than what is guaranteed as a minimum pension either a minimum pension at all, or a minimum pension for a full internship. Another complaint heard that the 640 kuna pension would be too high compared to that minimum pension of 738 kuna. That just means that the lowest pension is too low, not that this is too high. Why? Well, because according to our pension law, a man if he's fourteen months and 30 days old can't get a pension right because we have a condition of 15 years of training. No one in our system valorizes those years of internships that someone may not have been able to collect. I remind you that even during that socialism, we didn't have full employment at least as fictitious as some other socialist countries in Hungary, the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia, etc. We've had a huge registered unemployment, a huge outflow of people. Some people simply couldn't get a retirement internship, some people stopped something else, so they just didn't want to do anything their whole life, even though he didn't want anything to do the way we would have been if we let those old people rot next to us from the cold and from hunger. Elemental civilized I would say civilization would force us to intervene in this case. And finally objecting to the fact that it's social. Well, it's social. Why do we call her a pension? Because they only receive it over 65 years old. So, that's targeted social law, pension is to preserve the dignity of these older people, pension is because they can't work, they don't have a working capacity so that that kind of object is also waste. It's not too expensive, it's not too expensive for what we'd get for that money, it's well targeted money. It is therefore not in any way a violation of any principle of pension insurance that we cannot accept this law. And so I appeal to you fellow God-fearing fellows, if there are any God-fearing among you to vote for this law, it will be good for you, because this is a law that certainly goes in favor of the citizens of this country and those of the weakest, poorest, most protected. Imagine, and your parents, fathers, mothers, or your loved ones could find themselves in the situation that many of our 60,000 citizens are in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93313	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Social Pension Act. The bill promoter is the SDP Representatives' Club. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposed law is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 63 votes in favour, one abstention and 26 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93316	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, let me give you a minute. The Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act at its session on 13 July 2006. Among other things, this law established the obligation to establish health homes on the islands listed in the names. The founder of these health homes on the islands is the unit of the regional self-government and in addition to the establishment of these homes, it is determined that the county will be the founders of at least one health home in the area of the county except the city of Zagreb, which will establish at least three homes of health in the area of the city. We believe that such a legal provision places the unit of local self-government in an unequal position because municipalities and cities do not have the opportunity to realise their responsibilities stemming from the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. It should therefore be possible for units of local self-government to be the founders of health homes for cities and municipalities in case of expressed interest. According to this proposal, several units of local self-government may be the founders of a home of health but would not be deleted from a provision that determines that the founders of health homes will also be county. We believe that there are different conditions in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia from different developed transport connections, geographical characteristics of certain areas, different density of population to the fact that there are larger medical centres near the headquarters of health homes, towns and municipalities. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that, in this case, there is a special expression of respect for the principle of availability of healthcare because, in this way, in a organisational sense, by acting as units of local self-government, this principle will be applied to the full extent. Local self-government units thus receive further commitment but motive to further advocate the development of primary health care and of course to further invest financial resources in its development. In addition, it is not to ignore the fact that the counties do not have in most cases fiscal capacity to cover the losses of their health homes and their legal obligation. On the other hand, the fiscal capacities of some municipalities and cities, especially large cities, greatly exceed their size of the county, are therefore able to tackle the losses of health homes and create more solid foundations for the functioning of primary health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93317	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act. The bill is proposed by the PGS, SBH, MBS. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposed law is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 65 votes for, 3 abstentions, 24 against. The proposed conclusion accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues did not stay here in the hope and belief that you would accept this bill because the government gave a negative opinion but I remained for two basic reasons. The first reason I want to remind you of the legislation is that the number of conventions of the International Labour Organisation that Croatia has taken over in so-called Succeeded or taken over from the former state. And then during the period or between 2000 and 2003, most of these conventions were published in the "National Journal" in part of international contracts and you know or I'm sure you know that these international conventions are an integral part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia but by carefully studying the publication of these documents, henceforth, of the international contracts that Croatia has taken over, I have come to realize that Croatia has so far taken over from the former state 44 of the International Labour Organisation, but since the independence and creation of the Croatian state we have not ratified but not one. One such convention is number 154, which I am quite clear is that the former state has not ratified and taken over because it is collective bargaining and collective agreements and such a thing in this system was unimaginable, it was neither necessary nor necessary because there were neither partners nor social partners nor anyone except the authorities had the right to establish or negotiate anything. But what made me particularly confused when I was studying the legal system in this area are the fact that, let's say one of the conventions that is even quite crucial is something old and has been taken over and the only announcement would be valid in Croatia and I did not publish it and invented it, but the book was published by Marinko Vucur and Sandra Valeta, and believe in, is in force in Croatia. In the official newspaper of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. And this document, this act of ratification and the only text of publication of this Convention, is from the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and Croatia, when it was taken over, it never later published in the Croatian language and in the Latin letter, this document but this document is part of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. There are also 4 other conventions in this book that are only published in the official SFRY and never after, published in Croatian and Latin letters in "National Journal" international contracts. So much for how much we keep to ourselves and how much attention we pay to the fact that the international agreements we have taken over or the obligations or ratification of these documents are being published and made available, and I want to tell you that this book teaches law students in Croatia. And I can only read this convention on a Cyrillic from the official Journal of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. That's the first reason I stayed. I want to believe that the current minister in charge of work will remember and make efforts and these four conventions that have never been published in Croatian and Latin letters will be published in "The People's Newspaper" because they were taken over to me in the last 1991 autumn, Mr. President, you know that better than I do. Since then, we have not had the strength or the means to translate them into Croatian and publish them in "The People's Journal". The second reason is that this would therefore be the first convention to be ratified by the independent Croatian International Labour Organisations, which Croatia alone would have ratified. But I understand why she won't be ratified. I understand why the government gave it too, why, thank you fellow Arabovic but I don't believe it's my paper but I'll take it. ... Maybe someone left before, maybe someone before, yeah, yeah, they're doing real workers, child labor, forced labor. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It could've been just me, that's, that's right. That's all I could have lost. So what are the reasons why the government gave a negative opinion? Why won't you accept this convention, ratification of this convention? I want to assure you that this has no political or party connotations, even part of the union against ratification of this Convention. And part of the union is against it. Because when I suggested it in the procedure, I asked for their opinion. Those real big unions supported it. Some who have learned to sing some new poems in the meantime are against ratification of this convention. Namely, this Convention foresees following ratification of the obligation of the State which has ratified to imagine the state authority promoting collective bargaining and collective agreements as a normal and standard criterion and way of determining labour market relations and even under working conditions, working relationship conditions, relationship between employers and workers and workers associations and labour representatives. Since Prime Minister Sanader also announced that the problem of working on Sundays and holidays would be resolved by law and not by collective agreements, it immediately became clear to me that this convention in Croatia cannot be ratified. Secondly, this convention determines the measures that the state government must encourage, perhaps something about it in the Sports News, but good. Therefore, as the state authority must encourage these collective negotiations, it states or obliges the State to, for example, resolve labour disputes in terms of the establishment of specific institutions of arbitration authorities and the contractual bodies on this matter. We are also not prone to this, and it is particularly problematic Article 7 which says that the measures taken by public authorities to encourage and promote the development of collective bargaining are subject to prior consultation. And whenever possible, the agreement between the public authority body and the employers' and workers' associations. And in whatever document there is a provision that suggests that an agreement between the three partners should be reached or reached and that public authorities should refrain from interfering in the autonomy of the social partners then this becomes a problem in Croatia. We'd rather be simpler and easier to solve these same problems with laws. It's more comfortable, it's cleaner because it's always the power that has the ability to solve the problem in most hands. But now I ask you out of the promise that by law, by amending the Law on Trade or by new law, work will be resolved on Sundays, holidays, holidays. It's been 12 months since the law's been passed. We do not want collective agreements as a mechanism of negotiation and negotiation. We've got a mess, we've got unfair competition, and we've got a redundancy of labour rights, and we haven't solved anything. From 2000 to today in Croatia, we have been vehemently introducing and implementing the flexibility of the labour market. But measures or mechanisms of protection, social protection, no sign of that. This Convention also points to a newer model in Europe modelling Denmark, the Netherlands, Finland and Sweden a few years ago, which respects and recognises the needs of labour market flexibility, as well as the introduction of safeguard clause mechanisms or the protection of labour rights that do not fall within the exclusive protection of the post that should be a domicile. And the whole model in Europe was successful because it wasn't a state intervention through laws, but it came through collective negotiations and collective agreements. The government's fourth argument was that this convention ratified the idea of only 35 states. And exactly, this convention wasn't ratified by Uganda, Tanganika, Zanzibar, Vietnam, Korea North. They didn't know there was any truth, Chad and other democratic states. But the countries that were preparing for entry into the European Union and who entered the European Union have ratified this Convention and have become an integral part of the legislation of those countries and on this very basis, and today, in competition, it has been a big word when the debate on the rebalancing of the budget, which is the country in the first place of competitiveness, according to the document that you received yesterday, which was given by the Competitiveness Council of Denmark. Did you see that Denmark from the sixth place last year, before last year, came first. And this model in which the social partners, and based on this convention, agree on models, mechanisms and moves and flexibility of the labour market, but also on the social security of not the workplace, but on the right to work in Denmark, and then spread to Finland, which you imagine the second one on the competitiveness table came to the Netherlands, which is fifth or sixth if I'm not mistaken, here somewhere. Our government says there's no need to ratify this convention. They'll handle it with the laws. It's true and it's possible and it's seen in the world. However, something else has not been seen that in the legal system of a country there are international contracts that have never been published in the country's official record, which have never been translated into the official language of that country and published in a letter that is officially in that country. Unfortunately, in the legal order, we have such international contracts that we have neither published nor translated to be an integral part of it. Whose honor it is, and whose shame it is, judge it for yourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93321	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Law confirming the Convention on the Promotion of Collective Negotiation. The proposer of the law is the Club of Representatives of the HNS. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for that conclusion is not accepted. To vote. The result? With 66 for, one abstention and 23 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93326	Thank you very much, but we can thank Mr. President for that. So here, on behalf of the club, I would like to propose a bill on HRT which proposes to reduce the RTD tax on pensioners. Namely, as you are probably familiar with the HRT fee is calculated at 1 and a half percent of the average salary for last year. That charge takes place in the third month. This year, that reckoning was made, too. The amount of the subscription is now 69 kuna. Last year was 66 kuna. In total this year, subscribers should allocate 828 kuna per year. When we look at our pensions, it's about half a pension our pensioners have to pay for the tv fee. Since we witnessed an increasing decline in the average salary pension year by year, just to remind you that in 2003, the average pension rate was above 43%, and that it is now below 40% this year. We see, therefore, that this fee from month to month, year to year, is a growing burden for our pensioners. This law proposes that pensioners be charged a tax of one and a half percent of the average pension for the past year, so that pensioners would pay a fee, for example, for this year not 69 kuna but 29 kuna. We think, therefore, that in the social situation of a large number of our pensioners and since they are also the most regular viewers of the programme, it would be good to meet them and reduce their tv tax. So here were the remarks that this would be difficult to determine, so who would pay, who wouldn't pay, etc. I think that would be good and there wouldn't be any problem actually in determining who's going to pay who won't pay. Here I hope, therefore, that this law will also be supported by members of parliament's representatives from the Croatian Democratic Community, because in 2003 in their pensioners' leaflet they put the TV subscription to the pensioners in the first place. So I expect your support, so there won't be a suspension, but a reduction in the pensioner's subscription. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93327	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93328	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague Pavlic, I'll be very brief. I must admit, I've never come so soon from handing over an application for discussion. So the Croatian party of pensioners has in some way negotiated an agreement with this government on certain actions, certain rights to be regulated during this term. I remember this government in its election performance, or HDZ, promising to release the subscription for the pensioners. However, a lot of things have not yet been realised in the agreement, of course we are of those who will say that there could be no more, there could be, there could always be more because if something is to be done then there is a way, if something is not to be done then an excuse is found. However, there is much left and will remain to be resolved for the next term, but for principled reasons, since it is a pre-election promise for the principled reasons that we have openly supported this proposal by Mr Pavlic, the Croatian Party of Retired People will vote for this bill, even if it might not be best made, perhaps not the most correct, but for principled reasons we remain in our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93329	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. A colleague of Pavlic's? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Croatian Radio Television. The legislator is the PGS, SBH and IMF Representatives' Club. In accordance with the proposal of the working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. It is not accepted to mention the draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 65 votes for, 11 abstentions, 16 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sorry that there are no partners here who have jointly announced this bill as a major revolution in their struggle for the rights and interests of local self-government. However, in that announcement, one mistake was stolen, so they announced that they were seeking ratification of this charter, and I now saw from the text of the law that only partial repairs were required. Two important provisions in the European Charter of Local Self-Government that Croatia did not take when it confirmed the convention, there are more but two are important. The first is in Article 4(6), which is the Member States or those which have joined it, and I quote: "local units will, as soon as possible, be asked in an appropriate manner for an opinion on the preparation and decision-making process directly concerned". So it is a provision of a charter which obliges the central authority to consult with local and regional self-government before coming to parliament in the procedure of proposing legislative solutions. I know that my colleague Peronja knows very much about it, because together we have learned about it even in America how important it is, how much it is a step in democratic processes when the central government has a duty to consult and consult local and regional self-government. However, in the government's view, the government does not want to assume the obligation so far even though the association of cities, associations of municipalities and their alliances, as well as the county alliance are increasingly active and constructive with the Central Office of State Administration when laws are being prepared. The second significant provision in this Charter is Article 9(4), which is about to say that the system of financing or income of local and regional self-government should be gossiping about their obligations. In the vote we will not support this bill for two reasons, first because the proposings are part of the ruling coalition and who remembered this only at the end of the mandate...... Against the conduct of the motion, Mr. President. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Against political playing with such serious things, against anyone proposing such serious changes and then not coming to Parliament and explaining it especially when... Yeah, no TV says counterpart Arabovic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And what I can do when some television is important from the fate of the state, that's how you know it. Everyone chooses their primary interests. That's right. But there's another reason. This provision on the need for the central government to provide the local self-government with adequate sources of funding in Croatia already exists in the Constitution in Article 137(2), which is about the income of the local and regional (regional) self-government units must be proportionate to their powers provided for in the Constitution and the law. Now if we have the Constitution of this country and we are passing laws in which we give authority, obligation and jurisdiction to local and regional self-government, and we do not provide power to do so, only ratification or confirmation of these parts of the European Charter will not be a more serious shift that the proposings had to know. They should have known that, so they should have insisted on fighting for these interests when this House passed such laws. But apparently, there have been different approaches between the two proposings or the two partners, and that is probably why nobody here today is going to convince us of the need to support such revolutionary progress in the fight for local and regional self - government interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93335	Thank you. I am concluding a debate with very modest chances of the success of this bill because.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93336	That's what you said, Mr. President, not me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93337	Yeah, I was just quoting the implications of this conclusion of yours. Proposal for a law supplementing the European Charter of Local Self-Government Act. The proposer of the law is the Club of Representatives of the HSS. I'm voting on the next conclusion. It is not accepted to mention the draft law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 67 votes for, 6 abstentions, 20 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93340	Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you a brief warning, in fact, of a proposal that I tried to solve first with one, and then with another law. I ask for your help, and in particular here is the assistance of the President of the Parliament, not because it is the Wine Act, but because of the obvious injustice and the problem that is present in our agriculture. Namely, what it's about. In 2002, the Law on Special Tax on Alcohol was passed, in 2003 the Wine Act was passed, in 2006 a rule on fruit wines was adopted. According to this Act on Special Taxes on Alcohol under Article 9 of the Wines, this tax charge is exempt, i.e. A tax of 0 kuna is paid. According to the Wine Law and fruit wines are included in this law, but what is unfortunately happening in the field? The finance ministry interprets legal regulations in one way, the Ministry of Agriculture interprets them in another way. The Ministry of Agriculture is clear and I have asked a representative question and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance remains with its position because it says so in the Law on Special Tax on Alcohol, while in the Wine Act therefore fruit wine is defined as... wine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what the Ministry of Agriculture is talking about, and I'm quoting the answer from the parliamentary question. So, the Ministry of Agriculture says, therefore, according to the Wine Act, grape products as well as fruit products, i.e. fruit wines are considered. Therefore, under the Wine Act, grape products are considered as well as fruit products, i.e. fruit wines. The Ministry of Agriculture is also in September 2003, March 2004, May 2006. The Ministry of Finance sent a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Special Tax on Alcohol, which would include fruit wine in the wine category with the same tax bill as wine, in which case we could say narrowly. Unfortunately, only the Ministry of Finance didn't go with its own law change. I've contacted both the Ministry. The finance ministry said, therefore, that since they are strong, they would say in this relationship, that it is necessary to amend the Wine Act. I'm on my way. I therefore propose certain amendments to the Wine Act in Article 3, in Article 4, so that the group explicitly states that wine in the meaning of this Law is therefore made of grapes or fruit, so that wine is also wine of fruit in the narrow sense of the law. Unfortunately in the government's response, the government's response is negative, but yet the government does not give any alternative in recent times, i.e. The government points out that the Government of the Republic is of the opinion that the issue of taxation of wine and fruit wines should be regulated by a special tax under the new excise legislation, which will be brought into line with the acquis of the European Union under the national programme of the Republic of Croatia during 2008. So only next year can we expect certain changes to occur. Just to point out that currently there are 75 fruit wine producers in the Republic of Croatia with 66 hectares, with a production of 1,000 and 600 hectolitres of wine and a turnover of wine since 2006 of a thousand and 500 hectolitres of wine. These wines are popular in the countries of Central Europe, so we have an open space for export. Central European tourists come to Croatia, they are also interested in the consumption of the wine. Many fruit wine producers have just taken loans, tasked themselves with planting orchards and making fruit wines. Why? Because these wines are more expensive than ordinary wines, they are bigger profits, and in agriculture, we all have to strive to get a better quality product with small series, intensive production, which we will sell more expensive, but to be competitive again because by paying this tax, our wines are more expensive than wine from imports, and what happens? So we're going to close our exports, and we're going to open our wine imports. I also have a memo from a producer who says when we will be fruit wine producers evenly and according to the rights of producers from Grožnja, we are in a dilemma and despite the credit debt we will continue to produce or disembark the orchard. Here's the government, unfortunately, gave a negative opinion. So I doubt anything will be done here, but we have an alternative to still being held on June 28th, a week ago immediately after the discussion of the committee and the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Special Tax on Alcohol, where Article 9 is amended. He's in a parliamentary procedure last week, and here comes the president's application to get that law done as soon as possible. Here, that's where I'm looking for your support to come to the hearing. We can put it as P.Z.E. at this session. And then, in the fall, let the second reading be adopted so that this year the problem can be solved. If we wait in 2008 then I think there will be big problems and everyone would like to keep their production, reduce imports and increase exports. Thank you very much. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-05-0.u93341	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law supplementing the Wine Act. The legislator is the PGS, SBH and IMF Representatives' Club. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The bill is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 66 votes for, 3 abstentions and 24 against, a proposed conclusion. We have another proposal for the conclusion of MP Željko Pavlica who says this: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to propose by the 27th session of the Croatian Parliament to the Croatian Parliament of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Special Tax on Alcohol, with the Final Proposal of the Law. The amendment to Article 9(2) on a specific tax on alcohol which would free fruit wines from paying a special tax on alcohol is proposed. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 80 for, 3 abstentions, 6 against the proposed conclusion.
