ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82056	We're moving on with the session. We're going to the third item of the agenda. - Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act, first reading of P.Z.E. No. 613. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Think of the proposal in the mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Constitution, Rules of Procedure, the political system, the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Mr. Vrankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82057	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament allow me to brief you on the Consumer Protection Bill proposal in a few words. As I believe you agree with me, consumer protection is an area of public interest and as such is an important segment of the development of a functional market economy. The common feature of modern democratic states is the protection of the economically weak side, i.e. the consumer in business transactions on the market. So consumer protection is a civilizational gain for developed democracies of regulated markets and a system of values in continuous development. The Republic of Croatia has started a legal basis process that provides adequate protection for all citizens, i.e. consumers, by adopting the 2003 Consumer Protection Act. The dynamics of this area, the rapid changes in the market, as well as the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to comply with the legislation of the European Union are the reasons why they require that the existing 2003 law governing the area of consumer protection be further improved and upgraded, in order to achieve a high level of consumer protection. For this reason, the creation of a new Consumer Protection Act instead of a novel, i.e. amending and supplementing the law. According to the 2003 Consumer Protection Act, more than 70 articles have been amended. Until it was introduced about 40 brand-new. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law would in this case be incomplete and incomprehensible, which could lead to difficulties in its application. This law is one general regulation establishing a framework for the consumer protection system. That consumer interests are protected by a number of other regulations such as the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Law on Food, the Law on Trade, the Act on General Product Safety, the Law on Standardisation, the Law on Energy, the Law on Telecommunications, the Law on the Community Economy and other regulations. Three basic reasons for the adoption of a new Consumer Protection Act. The first reason is to improve the existing provisions of the laws for which, in the three-year application of the applicable law, the need for improvement has been identified on the basis of frequent consumer questions, consumer protection associations, traders and their chamber interest associations, and, in accordance with the discussions conducted between state administration bodies, trade unions, consumer organisations, independent experts, academic community representatives, including the use of expert assistance from foreign consultants under the CARDS programme 2002. Another important reason is further harmonisation of legislation on the provisions which were transposed into the Croatian legislation of the European Union's consumer protection guidelines in 2003. During the application, however, certain legal gaps have been identified in relation to the legal property of the European Union and what is further harmonised by this law. This refers primarily to the guidelines on price emphasis, consumer credit guidelines, and distance sales guidelines. The third reason is further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union in this area. The Republic of Croatia is obliged to comply with three guidelines that have not been part of national legislation so far. And this guideline related to distance sales to consumers of financial services, e.g. Credit, insurance, payment services and similar services concluded via telephone, e-mail, catalogue, etc. This guideline has been transposed to Articles 55 to 69 of the Consumer Protection Act. In accordance with the provisions of this Guideline, the trader is obliged to notify the consumer of the financial service provider, the financial service which is the subject of the contract, the further details of the contract and the way in which the disputes are settled. The consumer also has the right to terminate the same contract within 14 days of the conclusion of the contract without giving reason. The guidelines relating to court orders for the protection of consumer interests have been transposed to Articles 130 to 140. Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act. In accordance with these provisions, authorisation is given to persons who have a legitimate interest in collective consumer protection, these are various associations, the State Inspectorate, to initiate proceedings before bodies in another country in the territory of the European Union and to protect the collective interests of consumers in the Republic of Croatia. The third guidelines relating to the unfair commercial practice of traders towards the consumer have been transposed to Articles 106 to 114, which also replaces the provisions on insurance advertising in consumer-trade relations. The proposed provisions adopt rules in the event of unfair commercial practices for consumers, including unfair advertising, which directly damages consumers' economic interests and all with a view to consumer protection. These provisions prohibit unfair business practices that involve misleading actions and failures and aggressive business practices. These provisions also introduce some new concepts into the Croatian legal system, statements that have so far not been part of national legislation, such as aggressive business practice, call for purchase, organized professions, rules of conduct of traders, etc. Some of the novelties of the new Consumer Protection Act concern more comprehensive consumer rights protection in relation to products with a shortage, i.e. in greater protection of rights with a guarantee list, regulation of the introduction of an education obligation on consumer protection in primary and secondary school programmes, the introduction of opportunities outside court resolution of consumer disputes, stronger consumer protection in organised action sales, and a number of other options for better consumer protection. In addition, the new law obliges traders to enable consumers to submit written complaints, then reinforced provisions that provide for additional education for children and young people on consumer protection. Furthermore, in order to make consumer protection more effective, the new law strengthens the role and competence of the State Inspectorate in monitoring the implementation and also increases the penalties in the event of an infringement. Thus, the upper limit from 100 thousand kuna was increased to 200 thousand kuna. And finally. In the proposed way, the aim is to establish a quality consumer protection system in the Republic of Croatia and to bring consumer protection closer to the standards that exist in the Member States of the European Union and to protect the economically weak side in business transactions in the market, i.e. Consumers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82058	I thank the Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82059	Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs. The Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 53rd session held on 24 January discussed the proposal of the Consumer Protection Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 21 December 2006. The Committee shall be based on Article 67. The Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as a parent working body. Introductoryly, the Committee president met those present on written materials relating to different applicants, and they are related to the comments on the text of this legislative proposal. The Committee has held observations, suggestions and opinions on the proposed text of the draft law of the Ombudsman for children of the Republic of Croatia, the Association of the Dalmatian consumer Split, the Consumer Society from Zagreb, Mr Tomsilava Lončar Secretary of the Association for the Protection of Consumers of Zagreb and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out the reasons for the submission of this legislative proposal. The fundamental legislation is certainly one of the most important preconditions for consumer protection. When it comes to this legislative proposal, three basic reasons for its adoption should be highlighted. These are coordination with the directors of the European Union relating to distance sales, financial services to consumers, court orders to protect consumers' interests, and sanctioning the unfair business activities of traders towards consumers replacing the provisions on misleading advertising. In addition, as another reason, the further improvement of the legislative legislation in relation to the seven Directives of the European Union have already been adopted. The third reason was the fact that by the time the previous law was adopted in 2003, its application conditionaled on the amendment of the provisions of the 80th articles and the embedding of 40 new ones, and the next one decided to submit a new legal text, not to amend and supplement the existing law. In the following debate, all participants agreed with the fact that the applicable law had to be improved and that the proposed legal text was mostly well written. The lawyer’s representative for children, she pointed out, in particular, that aggressive behaviour must be prevented by some advertisers because children have been targeted by a group since their youngest age, so that two-year-olds find a way to convince parents to buy them what they want, and three-year-olds recognize brands and products on shelves. In the context of that article, Article 114 of the Law, which lists the procedures which constitute aggressive business practice, should be complemented in such a way as to prohibit advertising in places where children are largely staying and thus prohibiting the type of advertising that directly states children to buy and advertise one product or to persuade their parents to buy it as well as advertising that causes or could cause physical, mental and other harm to children. Article 121 of the Law, which speaks of consumer protection holders, notes that there are no executive bodies among them. Article 123 of the Law, which speaks of the bodies of the local and regional (regional) self-government bodies, which are obliged to systematically promote consumer protection, requires clarification of the word "support", by the Consumer Protection Association. Article 127(7), which speaks of consumer counselling centres, is not precise enough because it is not clear what kind of a network of consultations is in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Article 128 of the Law provides for a time limit for the adoption of basic and secondary education plans and programmes to contain basic knowledge of consumer rights and obligations. The applicant's representative pointed out that the unequivocal interest, equality of consumer protection is needed at the level of the whole country and that the consumer protection system is a new system in the Republic of Croatia where education and traders and consumers are a priority. In the course of the debate, it was pointed out that consumer protection is a highly complex area, among other things, because it regulates a part of the matter governed by the Law on Mandatory Relations. It has also been pointed out that far more questions related to the application of this Law have been raised by traders. It should certainly be pointed out that the reference to this legal text in the first reading procedure is the best way to pass quality law. It also noted Article 23 of this proposal on the provision of public services, which relate to the need for more precise regulation and taxation of which public services are thought of. The applicant's representative replied that the complexity of the text of certain parts of the Law is conditional upon the EC Directives, the European Community. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament. One, the proposal for a consumer protection law is adopted. Under two opinions, observations and proposals to be presented in the debate and written observations submitted to the Committee, the applicant shall be instructed to take them into account when drawing up the final proposal of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82060	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, the honourable representative Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82061	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 72nd session held on 23 January 2007 discussed the proposal for a consumer protection law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 21 December 2006. The Committee discussed the draft law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee is also aware of the remarks of the Ombudsman for children of the Republic of Croatia on the draft law. In the debate, the Committee supported the solutions set out in the Proposal for a Law, in particular those harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament draw the next conclusion. Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act is hereby adopted. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate on the Proposal for a Law at a session of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies will be addressed to the Proposer in order to draw up a final proposal of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82062	Thank you. I'm going to a club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82063	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I want to believe that I will not be resented for starting my debate or first sentence with a topic that is not related to the law because I want to give thanks and commendation to the Public Relations Service of the Croatian Parliament, which, after shorter preparations, managed to keep the promise and began the transfer of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament on the Internet from last night. Which is extremely good because now citizens, not only of Croatia but of the world, can follow us throughout the day. And I want to believe that software will also withstand all the tests that precede this demanding job. And I also thank my colleague Bošnjaković because we created a normative basis for the introduction of Internet transmission through the Public Labour Regulation, even two years ago if I am not mistaken. The Consumer Protection Act, it is my dilemma, or the Law on opening and closing negotiations with the European Union. After careful reading of the Law, I am still not sure that this Law is intended to protect Croatian consumers and I will explain why. 4 million citizens are about interested citizens of this Law. The protection of consumer rights is not dependent on it or is the most dependent on whether they know their rights because no interested group, majority or minority group, can be protected if they are not themselves familiar with their rights. Do consumers understand the language of this Law? In the debate on the National Consumer Protection Strategy, we stressed the fact that they do not foresee or have ever conducted a national consumer information campaign on their rights, informing them about places where they can protect their rights, to whom, when or where to address to verify whether their rights are violated or not. And which legislation provides for paths for the refund of the consumer's right to be returned, protected, compensated. Sadly, this Law does not deal with it or to a sufficient extent, but there are other problems. In the light of the Law on page 3, the last paragraph states that the Proposer of this Draft Law points to the Parliament. Is this a draft proposal or a bill? He's writing a draft proposal. I think that cleaning the text of the law between the stage of the draft and the proposal should read, remove and make such mistakes as this one. However, what I was particularly concerned about on the one hand, and on the other hand the passport was happy right behind what it said. In the application of the Consumer Protection Act to specific cases, it has been shown that its provisions are missing and that a significant part of the existing regulation is not implemented independently of the full range of weaknesses and irregularities. Which prevents consumers from achieving fundamental consumer rights. Therefore, the Proposer concluded that the existing Consumer Protection Act in Croatia that we have not implemented. Despite the fact that he had shortcomings, we did not implement him, which prevents the protection of consumer rights. This Law also focused 99% of cases on regulatory relations, but not on the Institute of Surveillance and Protection. And if so, if the Proposer found out that and the existing law we didn't implement what we're doing now? Are we going to implement this new law if we do not educate consumers about their rights, if we do not develop in Croatia a network of consultants at the service of citizens and if we do not strengthen supervision? And the best law, any one for the users of those rights, means nothing if not implemented, and a bad law in good supervision of a swift and strong sanction has greater benefits than excellent laws without supervision and enforcement. The second dilemma was whether the Council for Consumer Protection was involved in the drafting of this Act under the old law of the Ministry of Economy, which was the advisory body of the Consumer Protection Minister and in which he sat if I did not cheat 6 representatives of the Consumer Protection Associations who raised a number of objections to the procedure for writing the text, the debate on the law and the final text that came before us today. In the light of the law, there's nothing about it, so I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State for an answer when he comes forward. Given that the first reading is I will try to make some concrete suggestions and suggestions to the proposing representative in the faith and hope that they will not be understood politically but understand them well. Article 5 tells consumers that their right is any product they buy or service that they do, and technically it is incorrect to return to the trader under the obligation of the trader to replace it with a new device. How many Croatian citizens know that? What do merchants do? They're sending you to the repairs because you have a guarantee. They do not replace products in the store and refuse to replace the product with an error of invalidity or anything else. If consumers knew this right and if hundreds of thousands of citizens were to benefit from it, there is no inspection that will put such pressure on traders such as consumers in the realisation of their right under Article 5 of the Law. Article 9(7) and (8) retail price must be written on the product, i.e. packaging, which is very good, but now this unfortunate or selling place of the product. Go to the shops, take the product, below the shelf is the price and the bar code and come to the cashier's box office says 20 kuna, and when the cashier's obvious bar code, it's 24 kuna. So what now? Why or at the point of sale? Well, the whole of Europe has a regulation that the price must be on the product, not on the shelf. Because the trade lobby, foreign trade chains have put pressure on it because writing and the price of labels on the product requires the employment of two, three other people, and they both sting and save and why they would write prices on the products. That's enough on the shelf, and that's one price on the shelf, and the other price on the barcode, whatever it is, it's... You get that when you buy 20 items. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How will you control it? The trader must point out the price in a way that does not damage the product, very well. It's a good thing it doesn't say and it might stick the label to the declaration, that declaration that's written in a font of 4, which you can only read with a microscope. How many products have you bought so far where your price label was on the Croatian declaration? Especially on that part of the declaration where it was written usable to? Have you noticed that on imported food products the price is most often pasted right where the period of use is written? And technically everything's fine. He's got a declaration, he's writing a term of use, but he happens to be at that place with a price sticker. So, please nice, no or no place to sell. On the product. And what is this place? Keep going. Article 40: "The means of remote communication shall not be allowed to enter into contracts for the sale of medicinal products, medical and veterinary products and explosives." What about guns, guns, shotguns, rappers? So explosives don't, but guns do. The drugs don't, but the poison does. Can remote communication in Croatia sell poisons? The drugs aren't allowed, that's what it says, and the poisons? Explosives aren't allowed. That's what it says, isn't it? That doesn't say. If it doesn't say, then it's allowed. It shall be prohibited to leave advertising messages and materials at the home door and the front door of the consumer’s apartment as well as in the mailboxes if such a prohibition is clearly written on them, Article 17. Proposer asks Croatian citizens to buy stickers on which to write, please don't put garbage in my mailboxes. Why? And why is it not written only if advertising material is explicitly allowed to be postponed? Why force citizens to highlight a ban on terrorism with paper waste that they later have to take care of at their expense because it's garbage after reading it? That paper goes into the trash if we don't have a separate collection of waste. And he says, "On the front door of an apartment or a house." You know what they do when you put a sticker on a mailbox? Then they put your advertising material in the fence, in the holes on the fence, and they didn't break the law because they didn't put it in the mailbox, but next to the crate between the two bars on the fence or throwing it over the fence in the yard, and they didn't break the old one or this law won't break it. And to divide the more of it, then it goes down the path and they just throw it in the yard because they've divided the quota they've got. What needs to be cleaned up, picked up after who cares, but now the law makes it possible for them to do so. This Regulation shall enter The use of a phone without a human voice and intermediation (automated voice machines) or a fax device for the purpose of making a contract is permitted only with the prior consent of the consumer. Look out! He calls you a phone machine to give you a commercial, and you first have to give him permission to give you a commercial. But if you're on the other side is the man who's telling you, you don't need to give permission, consent to the previous one to terrorize you by phone with an ad. How does a machine have to ask for consent to the previous one? But at the same time, there's no ban on sending mass e-mails. The e-mail does not require prior consent from the recipient. You know why? Because he is the most common sender of mass electronic advertising messages T.com. It's T.com that's the most common one, and that's what the law has given him, which gives you every day with its commercials. And this law provides that he, as an operator, must protect Internet users from sending mass messages. But his software misses his advertising messages because the legislator did not realize that the operator could also be a trader who offers the consumer a service or a product. This Regulation shall enter Listen to me carefully. The notice of the financial service which is the subject of the contract contains, the total price to be paid by the consumer for that service, including all taxes, fees, fees and other costs, or where the exact amount of the total price is not possible to determine the elements for the calculation of the total price which enable the consumer to determine the price itself. The trader cannot determine and calculate the price, so the super consumer will calculate it himself. And I end up with a provision on consumer counselling, Article 127. How many consumer counselling centres does the Croatian state have today? Where are they located, and how many will we have when we adopt this law? If I could just ask you one question? Does anyone in the Government of the Republic of Croatia know how many food samples have been taken to import at the authorised border crossings by the competent inspectors for control? How many samples of food we import have been taken to control consumer protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82064	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82065	Dear Mr. Vice President! Dear counterpart Lesar incorrectly said about the purchase and purchase of weapons because the weapons can only be obtained if the competent police authority is granted approval and this question has been resolved by the Arms Act and not by the Consumer Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82066	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82067	It is incorrect to quote fellow Lesar that most of the mass unwanted mail, therefore,... comes through T.com. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although I, as a user, am very often dissatisfied with their service, have many objections to correctness for the sake of it, most of this unwanted mail comes from outside Croatia. It's mostly those ads, you all know, that get e-mails for a variety of medications or for a variety of money laundering. I mean, the correctness works and it is T.com that has the only server in Croatia e-mail that has built-in quite good... filters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although I say I have a number of objections myself. I would like to discuss this with the report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media, which has precisely that to monitor. For the second or third year in a row we don't talk about it at all so that the correctness is done I think you've made a mistake in this quote but there's a chance to discuss it there.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82068	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82069	Mr. Vice President, representative of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs! Well, as the State Secretary for Consumer Protection said in that explanation of the bill, it is an important element of every democratic society and property of the market economy. However, as they have shown experience in much more developed countries and those that have had a market economy in this area for centuries and more when it comes to consumer protection, etc. Market self-regulation is not enough but needs to be set up in order to say this conveniently, clear rules of play, control and restriction of the monopoly. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in The Stabilisation and Association Agreement has pledged to adapt its legislation to consumer protection and, in 2003, a Consumer Protection Act that is still in force today and somewhere if you remember in early 2005, we have also adopted a National Consumer Protection Programme or a strategy that we already discussed in half last year and discussed their first report. In this national programme, we also drew up that this Consumer Protection Act, but also all other legal acts that should have been, and were counted neatly in the national programme during 2005, somewhere from the 1st quarter to the 4th quarter of 2005. However, this proposal for a law on page 4 states that a delay has been requested and approved, and then, of course, the question is how do we, in some of our national programmes that this Parliament adopts, adopts commitments that are then extended and that, as I said, refers to all the legal regulations and obligations of the consumer protection domain. On page 6 of the proposal for this law, it states that this Parliament and this law will make further alignment with the legal acquis of the European Union, which will bring the level of protection of consumers of the Republic of Croatia much closer to the standards of protection in the Member States of the European Union. In the opinion of us at the SDP club, anything that this bill will achieve, and we hope that it will still experience certain changes until the second reading, so everything that is written in this bill is achieved by this law, it is only a mere harmonisation with the legal and legal acquis of the European Union. And right here at the beginning on behalf of the club I'm really asking this law and nomotechnically arranged. In one good part are used expressions that are absolutely not suitable for Croatian and are completely incomprehensible and in one part and inapplicable to the SDP club. On page two of the proposal of this law, the Republic of Croatia said that in July 2005, the operational implementation of the European Union CARDS project was launched in the Republic of Croatia in 2002, strengthening capacity in the area of consumer protection, and that the project lasted until 31.12.2006. He said he was actually focused on several areas, harmonisation of legislation, institutional and administrative strengthening, development of human potential, development of a central information system between the Ministry of Economy, the State Inspectorate and Consumer Protection Associations and raising public awareness. Then let's put it this way. The harmonisation of legislation. In addition to being very late and with this proposal for a consumer protection law, there is a particular need to be reiterated here. It is not a point in the mere adoption of legislation or in the mere amendment of existing legal rules but is a purpose in the implementation of the legal rules adopted. So, by passing this law, by harmonising Croatia's legislation, absolutely nothing will change. Furthermore, institutional and administrative reinforcements. In what way? Is this the famous Consumer Protection Council, as already said as the advisory body of the Minister? What's that supposed to do? How strong is it? How much was involved in this bill? Who besides the consumer associations even know that this advisory council exists as one body of a minister? Are these the courts honors of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or the Croatian Chamber of Commerce? Is that the Department of Consumer Protection at the Ministry? Are these some institutions that I have now listed which consumers can turn to if they are in some way cut off? Or did we leave it all to consumer associations? And then it happens to you, as you have on the consumer association's website, that this association is waiting already in January eleven months for the questions they sent about the return of packaging waste, and it is waiting for the response from both the ministry and the Environmental Protection Fund, and then it is in some way a small example of how from the state level and from the level of the highest state institutions we refer to exactly the civil society or associations that we have actually left to worry about taking care of the consumers themselves. What about the inspections? How many inspections are teamed up? For example, how many sanitary inspectors and other inspectors have been employed in the last few years, because as far as I can remember, it is written in our national programme, but in that first report we did not get an answer to that question. How much is the control procedure for food products charged, and how much does that make sense in Croatia? If you remember maybe a year or two ago there was one case where in one food product, illicit ingredients were found and then when it was established, that goods were withdrawn but then no one wanted to publish the name of the manufacturer. Furthermore, the development of human potential, we don't know what that applies to. The development of a central information system, we have no information as to how much, in what sense, or if anything has been done at all. Raising public awareness, how, in what ways, with how much funds. If we do so, for example, here's what day we'll probably have on the agenda a decision to declare 2007 year of consumer education, and in that decision, if you may have looked at the stand, we'll probably make that decision and will probably be supported by all clubs and we'll name several of us from the ranks of parliamentary representatives and MPs, several members of government representatives and several members of consumer associations. What, and with what, am I primarily talking about what financial means they can do something to raise better education for consumers in Croatia? And otherwise, it is known that around 20% of consumers are conscious of their legal rights in Croatia. But unfortunately, it should also be said that this awareness of the legal rights in Croatia is absolutely not enough. Because if a citizen is also aware as a consumer of his right and when he sets out to achieve and battle for the exercise of his right, then I believe you do not need to specifically tell you what kind of obstacles he is facing and what everything must go under, of course, a very questionable result of achieving that right. On the basis of all that has been done so far in Croatia, the various controls that have been carried out in the area of consumer protection are far the least said from the state of satisfaction because, as I have already said, the regulations are unclear, incomplete, imprecise and inapplicable. With this bill of law, we are afraid that too much will not be resolved and improved in this area. Thereafter, administrative oversight of the competent ministries of the implementation of the regulations of its own part shall not be carried out or insufficiently carried out, criminal offences shall be resolved slowly, and mild criminal policies shall be insufficient, the powers of the competent inspection authorities to carry out inspection controls in most regulations. And of course, as last but not least, the lack of information of consumer education on their rights is still insufficient to organise consumers throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about this law like I said, the law is that the SDP is inaccurate. In a series of my elements, I will specifically specify one area relating to the field of public services, and that is something that I think our consumers, in addition to that part of the purchase of, say, food products, are particularly interested in. Furthermore, it must be clear to all of us that when we talk about consumers and the use of different services, this law will not and will not solve the question of a monopoly in the area of the provision of certain services, especially when it comes to both the domain and local units of self-government. Furthermore, this law does not solve and unfortunately still remains in Croatia the extremely present provision of services and charges without an account. I believe that you all know about it when it comes, especially that when it comes to the different home repairs when the master comes in and out of business hours, and when the deal of course falls if it's without an account then we're going to see, we're not going to calculate the VAT or we're going to cut by a certain amount. And that's one area that unfortunately very gray to say so, not to say black and some estimates are to turn here between a billion and 2 billion kuna. Unfortunately, such a situation is appropriate for at least now and for those who receive services, but also for those who provide these services because unfortunately there are at least for now state authorities completely, completely helpless or not giving themselves enough effort to address some issues in this area. I'd just like to look back on behalf of the club, too many remarks that should be made on this bill. I want it to be said that as a Club, we support the observations that went to the draft of the bill before it entered the government procedure and the parliamentary procedure which were given by different consumer associations and supported by the SDP Club and we believe that they will also be delivered to the competent ministry that they will be adopted until the final draft of the law. However, I would therefore like to take a particular look at, among other things, Article 9, paragraph 7, which speaks of the emphasis on the price of the product and which consumer associations warn that the proposal now stands in the law worse than the solution we have in the existing law. Not only is it worse but it is directly contrary to the directive, to the directives of the European Union, and we ask the promoter to take care of it and to amend it until the second reading. Further information on the product in Article 18 where we know that our biggest problem is when we want to read product data in particular and especially when it comes to food products or cleaning products, hygiene and the like. Some of the research done shows that 40% of consumers consider the declarations to be incomprehensible and unclear. 20% of consumers use it every time, smiled at me or did not increase when they go shopping. For 15.3% of consumers, it is difficult to read what is stated on the declaration, and about 12% of consumers are looking for bigger letters on declarations and some 3 to 4% of consumers are satisfied with the way it is, the product data are presented. And finally, I would like to take a special look at Article 23 that speaks about what is meant by public services. Please read this Article 23, 1st paragraph in which there is the possibility of manipulation, arbitrary interpretation, which is actually a public service because it says some definition of saying, and then especially points out the supply of electricity, heat, natural gas, drinking water supply and wastewater disposal. We believe that much better is the solution and that the final draft law should adopt the proposal that the consumer associations have made, which we all have received, and also the promoter or the Ministry of Economy, as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82070	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82071	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow government representatives, I think we are discussing a very important and important law today. We hope that our common goal will be how systematically, so that we can legally regulate the full and effective full protection of consumers on the one hand, and on the other hand, when we talk about this matter, we must see how and how to protect, for example, those sellers mainly in large trade chains that are in situations between consumers and their owners as between hammers and anvils. I'll tell you a lot of these negative examples later where basically the part about the conflict between the consumer and the owner, the owner of the company, between the hammer and the anvil, is that those sellers who are always guilty or guilty to the consumer themselves, and then the boss normally does not accept his responsibility in such situations, but that responsibility is transferred to a seller who has about two thousand, three thousand kunas. We know how much it works. So there are many situations that because of false complaints from consumers themselves, these sellers were fired or various variations. For the purpose of stealing goods, let's say they always pay, the boss won't accept that part that's worldly, but the seller who has low wages must make up for everything that's stolen and the boss won't hire a certain number of workers as long as it takes to make it all work. So we should not discuss only unilaterally in terms of consumer protection, because in certain cases consumers can in some cases, in some cases, deliberately, unresponsibly seek some kind of protection of their rights and are not. But such situations are normally far less than these situations I plead to. This law means that at last in Croatia is systematically and effectively regulated by consumer protection. It is therefore good that this law is addressed to a regular procedure, that it is a matter of first reading because of the fact that this law has been well laid down declaratively which, as it should be, but the working out is not. Declaratively, the objectives in terms of consumer protection are well set, but by simulating the very provisions of the law, we will see for ourselves that this protection as it is now laid down in the law will not bring what is set out in the objectives and what both we and all Croatian citizens on the one hand would like as consumers to do so. It is particularly bad that these provisions are addressed regarding inspection supervision, related to the powers of the inspector when we ourselves have to simulate all the various situations that are already in practice and you will see that the inspection powers are nothing and the main problem is that everything comes down to the question of the initiation of an appropriate infringement procedure, and we ourselves know what the situation in the infringement courts is and that somewhere up to 60% of these criminal reports of inspectors ends up out of date. That's the biggest problem. That is why it is far smarter to think about the mandated punishment of inspectors normally and in the protection of those who are being punished so that there will be no abuse, and in all other situations, if it is about placing various goods without a declaration or counterfeit goods. And the variant is, let's say, there's a declaration of one. This is what you saw happening to the European Union. The expiry date expires, then those on that goods that are old put the new declarations as if they were worth it. So, all such situations need to be given authority to immediately exempt these goods from traffic and seal them in order to prevent such a variety of situations. And normally, what was not solved because of the delay that Croatia is a large importer of food. But unfortunately, everything and everything is being imported. We import around 12 billion kunas annually and the declarations are not appropriate, and our services are not yet checking the quality or whether what should be on the declaration inside is contained. That's why I hope all this will be fixed and that this P.Z.E. mark. 613 will not mark 13 numerologically we had a lot of laws that had that mark and eventually these laws were infamously completed and never applied or implemented. So we're just declaring it so we hope this time this tag doesn't mean anything to us. Now I have to say that we as consumers, meaning like most Croatian citizens, probably each of us can count a large number of examples and cases where we as consumers were cut off whether we were buying products without a declaration, whether the product was advertised as something of quality, as something worth it and at the end when we bought we saw that it was not. We had a lot of situations that we had to advertise ourselves, but unfortunately we didn't do anything about it. But every day it means that Croatian citizens face these problems related to their protection as consumers and related to their exercise of rights. But here when we talk about it, it's obvious that it's not just about different companies that aren't, where owners are private or whether they're crafts or other situations. Unfortunately, our citizens are also exposed to chicanning by themselves by companies, cities or municipalities dealing with municipal affairs, and even in some cases from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, so that I will give you a number of these examples mainly related to this new law. You probably know such examples too, and you may be sued by Croatian citizens. For example, it has now become relevant to, say, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is going into the executive procedure and this is for non-payment of supplementary insurance. I've got a few cases where it's been found on the side of HZZO, and so the notary's office has been handed over that someone didn't pay for one war in 2002. People say we paid for it, but we didn't keep the payments, because the first payment of the extra insurance went to everyone who had paid for it, and then whoever was employed after they took over the companies, the companies where they were already employed. So it's a situation that the very state, the bodies of the state, they don't have accurate records or they're waiting for that moment. So in 2007, they start for 2002. I've got a couple of cases I'm going to let you know where pension insurance is going. I was told by people who looked like that event that Kishon described in the book “Tita Pains the Sea. ” He had a problem with paying for electricity because one war was late and he couldn't possibly get to the green branch, because every time he paid again, it would be a tight interest. This case in Croatian is related to one unfortunately already died, told me by his son about a pensioner who was a taxi driver and who was first year after he went to retirement where everything was clearly determined that he remained in debt 50 kuna. Then he paid for it. Then after that, five kunas remained for the second year. Then they found out he was left with a kuna. So those variations happen here. Then it's mostly about these executions of a new situation and again about that executive law and when I kept quiet for 10 minutes, when I knew what such executive law would produce what effects unfortunately it is now happening. Watch out, they're going to be running the variants now for three, four years without paying one particular piece. That's what you're doing with the power. You're doing this part of the living, communal to pay the common one, to manage the building of that joint fee. Therefore, when we talk about all this, we really need to consider setting these limitation deadlines in this law first and foremost. Are we still going to have an out-of-date? Then in some regulations it's well said. It's exactly been determined that it's three years. According to the Mandatory Relations Act, if it isn't specified, it's five years. But I'm saying, you can see how many cases and situations there are for consumers, so Croatian citizens are not only chicanated, but that's where you're looking out. Be careful, your performance is run by public notebooks and he automatically knows that, we'll have a good time today and the Public Note Act, he gets that fee. He's not interested in anything. If a man complains, he has to go to trial. So, the objection if he invests, he has to go into proceedings. But unfortunately, most of them know that she paid but there's no payment he kept for a year or two, in 2002, for example from 2003. Therefore, we need to think about this really well because we see that it chicanizes consumers, municipalities and cities, or municipal societies owned by municipalities and cities or even institutions, as I said the case of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, as I said this case of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Therefore, it is already visible that we need to fully consider all these issues, make a mechanism, further all of them, and simulate all of these cases and suggestions and remarks that we have received and all of us that have received and I propose any of the various associations, either of the individuals. So, to make a law that will be and simulated, which will provide answers that such situations are related to the purpose that such situations related to consumer shagging are not happening and make the system effective where we go to the variant no, it's not always about me punishing, but where normally it is necessary to punish and apply the measures inspectors of those who will be effective in the sense that such or similar situations don't happen anymore, and that's mainly that variant when you have goods declared as something that a man wants to buy, and ultimately buys something that doesn't even fit what man bought. So regarding the term of the decree, and the price of the matter, let's say for the various variations that occur to you. Where are normal suggestions you say argue with HT for one phone bill, but he shuts you down and instead of introducing a rule if you dispute for that one account this everything else needs to be paid regularly and normally, and that part goes into slow. But you and Telekom and all those who have a monopoly normally force the consumer to hit them with rules of the game, and that is why we who are here in the Croatian Parliament who in such situations need to regulate it precisely to protect the real consumer when his rights are denied. But again, in all those variations and situations, I have 10 cases where sellers, big-time merchants got fired because of the fact that someone reported them, he filed a complaint against an irresponsible citizen, and that didn't happen at all. And the boss just walked out of that situation, fired that salesman. So there's a lot of situations, there's a lot of variants that point to how and how to solve it. Now it's mostly important in article 1, so-called To define precisely all the situations, to define what is what is so that, in such a particular concept, all these institutes can be developed both in terms of consumer protection and in terms of giving authority to inspection how and how to act in terms of the application and implementation of the laws in the work. There have been conversations here, even some pricing solutions, markings are better in the applicable law than they are in the draft of this law. Here, thanks, that's it. I have these examples, so I'll... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82072	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Pukleš.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82073	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues, representatives of the government. This Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act is an important document for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as it provides citizens with adequate protection of their interests in the purchase of goods and services. Rapid changes in the market are also reflected on consumers, so continued monitoring of consumer protection quality and extending the priority area of consumer protection policy implementation is necessary. In the current application of the Consumer Protection Act, there has been growing shortages and shortages of provisions and their non-implementation, which has virtually challenged the exercise of the fundamental rights of consumers. The most frequent shortcomings concerned price failures or incorrect pricing, incomplete product declarations, inconclusive timing, non-compliance with the terms of sale, non-accounting, method of accounting for municipal, telecommunications services, non-compliance with the terms of sale. In addition to the shortcomings in the implementation of the existing Consumer Protection and Market Change Act and the need to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the level of consumer protection in European legislation, this law has been imposed. This law is before us today, and the basic issues that are regulated by law are particularly the emphasis on the prices of products and services, content, notices and product, i.e. the declaration, the concept of public services, sales outside the business space of traders, sales through catalogues, promotional messages, television, electronic mail, etc. Especially since an important issue related to aggressive advertising is addressed to children where the provisions of the new law are an important improvement in the protection of the rights and interests of children. The adoption of this law significantly improves solutions so far and creates favourable conditions for improving and improving consumer protection systems. Therefore, the irregularities observed through the current application and the alignment with the legal acquis of the European Union are being implemented, bringing the level of consumer protection of the Republic of Croatia closer to the standards of protection of the Member States of the European Union. We think we're not, there's no need because there's more or less work to be done. And we as the Croatian Party of Retired Party club will support the proposal of this law in terms of his going to second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82074	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82075	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. So the fundamental question is whether consumers in the Republic of Croatia are protected and should be protected. The answer is formally they are protected by the Consumer Protection Act, which was adopted in September 2003. Indeed and realistically, they are unprotected and are exposed by the chicans of the stronger sides in market transactions. It is true that the common feature of all modern democratic states is the protection of economically weak parties in business transactions on the market. And that is why we do not need the pressure of the European Union, but rather a mandatory response from the state authorities to the needs of its citizens. In response to the needs of the citizens in 2003, this Parliament passed a law aimed at protecting consumers through a consumer policy. The eradication of poverty, rational and effective governance, social justice, respect for human rights and dignity of human persons and families, a regulated social market economy, etc. etc. It is noteworthy that Croatia is one of the last countries in the transition that passed this law, although it protects every citizen from the president of the state, national representatives, prime ministers and all other citizens. When we passed the law, we pointed out the need for its implementation because we are not bringing it for the sake of the European Union, but for ourselves and for the needs of our citizens. Now, after three years of entry into force, we have a new bill, and the proposal again calls for the need to comply with EU legislation, calls for the same objectives, and it is optimistic that this law will achieve them. At the same time, it notes that the current law lays down a legal framework for the establishment of a system consisting of administrative independent and independent bodies aimed at building and systematically achieving active consumer protection. Then what's the problem? The problem is that this law has not been implemented over three years, which prevents the achievement of the fundamental rights of consumers, its dignity and economic interest. These are the words of the applicant's explanation. If the positive law is not implemented for three years, how can we expect to apply this one that is before us? Instead of ensuring the implementation of the law for which it is required and mandatory, the government is proposing a new law and thus prolonging the protection of the rights of all of us because the new law requires and a new time of preparation for application. Why does the positive law not apply? Some sources speak because of the lack of implementing acts, so for a full period of three years, the competent ministry has not adopted implementing acts and implementing the new law also requires implementing acts requiring additional time. Let us just remember that within one year of the date of entry into force of the law, it was necessary to adopt a National Consumer Protection Programme that should systematically create a protection policy and set priorities as well as measures to achieve them. Of course, the programme has not been adopted and for consumer protection it was lost throughout 2004 and throughout 2005. From just an example of this delay, it clearly turns out that this government is uninterested in protecting the weaker side of business transactions, which is all of us. Another example of non-interest is seen from the implementation of the state budget for 2004 and 2005 and the first half of 2006. State resources were also provided for the functioning of the protection system, but they remained neutral. And now that this government is at the end of the mandate and consumers will need to pay bills to citizens, therefore to consumers, it proposes a new law just so they can tell citizens there was no time because the law was passed only this year. Of course we don't want to glorify the existing law. He has shortcomings, and we pointed to them when he was brought in. Over the full three years, the system could have been repaired, and by now the system has certainly been able and has had to function in a way that has been followed. It is obvious that there was no political will to which the reason and the proposing himself said, I quote: "The need for the adoption of a new law was seen during the analytical review and the assessment of the compliance of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia for the protection of consumers with European legislation in Chapter 28 'Protection of consumers and health', when uncoordinated areas of the Republic of Croatia were identified, the Republic of Croatia took the obligation to comply with the clearly established deadlines set out in the negotiating position for this chapter, i.e. the Republic of Croatia. fourth quarter, fourth quarter, 2006. "years." It passed in 2006 and instead of the last quarter of 2006 we will have the law in half of 2007 despite our commitment to the European Union. There's no consistency here either. Furthermore, the applicant has located the provisions most frequently violated, such as the provisions relating to the emphasis on product prices and the provision of services, the provisions relating to the emphasis on advertising prices, the provisions relating to product declaration and the provisions relating to the regulation of public services. It is expected that the government has given special attention to improving the very provisions most violated. It doesn't seem like it after all. For example, Article 9(7) regulates that the retail price must be written on the product, i.e. packaging or on the sales place of the product. Customer, i.e. The consumer has the right to know reliably the price of the product he wants to buy. This provision does not guarantee it because the trader has the right to point out the price at the point of sale. In this way, it often happens that the price does not apply to the product found there. Very often we have other items, and the price is different and the customer is not protected and the customer cannot undoubtedly determine what the price is. If we want to ensure the right of the customer to know the price, the only way is for the price to be pointed out on the product itself or on the packaging of that product, but also on the sales site as well as on the exposed goods in the window and in that case we guarantee this right of uncertainty. The product itself shall not be subject to other prices except in the case of sale, reduction and bankruptcy of the company. Furthermore, by worrying about consumer rights, the applicant says that each trader is obliged to enable consumers to submit written objections either in the sales space or in the mail, fax of the device or e-mail, and to respond to them immediately after receipt, and no later than 15 days after the date of receipt of the complaint. It is quite complicated and difficult to control the application of the provision. It is much simpler and easier to monitor the application of the book of complaint to the trader. Any inspector in his surveillance with insight into the book of appeals would easily find a clue to the failures and violations. Furthermore, the priority of protection must be the most vulnerable consumers, and the most vulnerable consumers are users of public services. It is precisely those provisions that were most often violated. Public services are considered to sell electricity, gas from distribution network, heat, public telecommunications services, postal services, passenger transport services in public, urban and suburban transport, drinking water supply and waste water disposal, and cleanliness maintenance. There is no competition in public services, and if the consumer does not stand behind the state, it is fully exposed to the self-will of the service provider. Consumers continue to pay stolen and scattered electricity and heat. It is not the consumer's fault that the supplier cannot prevent the dispersion on the lines and illegal connections. The consumer pays water as drinking water, and the entire water region does not have drinking water but technical water. Does the consumer have to pay the price of drinking water and the supplier offers only technical water? Citizens pay for the drain by squares of living space, and the sewers are gone. Our peasants pay a water-based fee per hectare of agricultural land, and the canal network is not built. Dimmed or dressed in plants, often old and a few ten-year-olds. The consumer has the right to healthy proper food for his money. This Parliament has adopted the Food Law as a legal basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human health and protection of consumer interests in relation to food. A food agency based in Osijek was established, however, the announcement of the establishment seems to remain only at the establishment. Furthermore, when we have the law, when we have sublaws, we cannot say that we have realised a consumer protection policy. We should not forget that we must teach our citizens how to consume the rights that the law gives them. Not only are rights but the consumer has obligations, so we expected a more extensive chapter entitled information and education for consumers. This chapter contains only one article that says that basic and secondary education programmes should contain basic knowledge of consumer rights and obligations. This article is not unnecessary, but the foundation will enlighten future generations of consumers. But what about the majority, and the huge one, who finished school, and the consumers don't even know what the rights and obligations are? We think we should pay a little more attention to the enlightenment. We know that we can answer that there are consumer protection associations as if the creation of new associations were possible. Citizens of consumers can join in and use their services including enlightenment. Not diminishing the role of associations, we need to look reality in the eye because most citizens are out of association. Most citizens are not involved in associations. As this is the first reading, the proposer can correct the observed shortcomings by the second reading and we can pass a perfect law that will mean nothing if it does not apply as is the case with the current law. Because the existing Law, which is very similar, almost identically regulates this matter, if we had applied it over these 3 years, we would certainly have a stalking consumer protection system, and the consumer protection system is aimed exclusively at eradicating poverty. In Croatia poverty is still too large.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82076	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82077	Sasma is an incorrect claim that this government has done absolutely nothing for 2 years to protect consumers when we know that this meeting of the Croatian Parliament in February 2005 has adopted a National Consumer Protection Programme that protected consumers in 11 areas, from public services to the use of real estate, trade, intelligence, education, environmental protection, health and food quality, etc. So it's been done and done and this is just the crown of everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82078	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207(2), the time for the individual hearing has expired. On behalf of the HSLS Club, distinguished representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82079	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This is one of those rare foreign laws where indeed our particular party belongings should not be decisive when formulating certain views. Because in fact, we're all in the position of the weaker party in all these business transactions and we're all actually consumers. We should certainly care for those rights to be protected. The fact that, within a few years, the second Consumer Protection Act shows that our legislation, legislation, is highly sensitive and that this set of these civil, human rights is as widespread as possible and must indeed be commended and that is good. Here again, it states that the reasons for the adoption of this Act are to comply with EU legislation and this second, respect for these fundamental human rights, consumer rights. But if memory doesn't cheat on me, those same reasons were relevant when the law came into force, if I'm not mistaken, on September 8, 2003. And now we hear, and here actually almost... repeats that this Law is not being implemented enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that somewhere around us, since we are passing, the Croatian Parliament is passing this law, that we MPs will raise our hands as we have raised and then one so important and important law is passed. And we need to ask ourselves why something that we have voted in good faith when it needs to be applied is being implemented, then there are certain shortcomings. So we can ask one question and what are the guarantees that this new Law will also be implemented? These are the things that would still be due to the integrity of this House, because of the dignity of our MPs we should actually get a certain explanation of what these problems have been, so that this existing law is there, it must be changed within 3 years. Normally, again, we will actually repeat some of those, generally known places, which is a matter of inspection, inspectorate, functioning of the mechanism, handling complaints, consumer remarks and, obviously, that, then if we just take it into consideration, we will not be satisfied. What I certainly, not just me, probably and all of you wouldn't like to actually write this Law because of some others, how it doesn't work, 50 years ago it was said that the Constitution was written because of the English, but actually how we're going to work and we have one such document, that is, this domestic use, that's going to apply some other rules of the game. That's what I'm saying. It wouldn't be good, and I won't, and I can't say yes as a parliamentary representative. It also needs to be very interested in what is actually happening with our society that we are not all about anymore, says that the consumer recently opened a chain, a long chain in Zagreb, is said somewhere by people, i.e. the media about 150 thousand people. I don't think there's a single political or even sports event today that could bring together such a large number of people and obviously this... and this hedonistic approach to life that is present here and in Croatia, and we could also actually follow these Christmas, or Christmas and New Year's holidays and actually see that, that the month of December is actually a month of one consumption that very often does not have a foothold in our material power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I say this consumer protection and I say it still seems insufficient and someone here already mentions that head, the third head that talks about informing and protecting consumers that it is actually insufficient, on the one hand, we have nothing against introducing these teaching programs into primary and secondary schools which will already slightly and future consumers or future consumers in some way direct them to their rights, but let's be realistic, however, it is a population that does not yet earn and which does not distribute home budgets. It means the same, or informing that it is the education of those who are making income, who are disposing of their home budgets, that they must be as far wider as they are so far. The organisation of consumers is also envisaged through associations, it is by the law of associations, meaning that some means only the organisation of consumers, but it seems to us that, in the club, it would still be much better to institutionalise consumer protection, and that this less leaves the good on, the basis is not bad, but institutional protection would be even better. We also have an objection to Article 123 which speaks about the obligations of units of local self-government in the organisation of consumers. It doesn't seem the same to us that he's too serious because you know the law can't be a resolution or a political declaration that won't commit to anything. This is certainly, i.e. the obligations of the units of local self-government are very much the sea to be and kudikam in a different way formulated because the price of municipal services... Water, gas, urban transport, parking, markets, open markets, all of these are actually very large items in our consumer basket, and this should also not be left at the level of an ordinary saying political declaration, so that there is only mention in Article 123 which are the declared obligations of the units of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we seem to always seem to be the most important, and should be well regulated to highlight prices for... the price per unit of measure, then determine that unit of measure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's when you talk about... The sales that unfortunately aren't here seem to me described in this article that talks... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which defines these terms, it seems to me that it's skipped. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It says in this action in the sale of consumer chains, the product is packed and the weight goes into packaging, and some as meat processing and... products you expose, and inside is not the bounded weight of packaging, coasters that often have several layers of paper, then get a little bit more like this, just in case and apply, and then we don't think that this should be the main purpose of one action sales of scattered products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What remains unequivocal is that the declarations are incomplete and vague, very often very finely written, and then, in fact, as with some very important contracts, they're small or small, and they're older people, and even younger if you have a little vision problem, then you simply skip those things. Besides, she's not enough. Communal services, i.e. at that price are accounted for and the price should be carefully worked out, insufficiently, already here was the protection of public telecommunications users, there is a whole series of monopolists on the market where they ran, the HSLS party has managed this action in some way to protect ourselves from these drug dealers and has proved very much that a large number of citizens have appeared and pointed out these problems, so the public is sensitized, but it should now be well-determined for both case and law. In the past law of the one that was passed in September 2003, the exact amendment to the log bag was the amendment to HSLS, the amendment was fortunately passed, but what happened? Now, the trade chains have gone a little bit, they've come to their senses, so now they're charging the bags without a logo, but still, I'm sorry, but it still remains recognizable, for example. The code "Conzum" red-green bags, "Plodines" have red baskets, so there's still some way to charge for it. It says you should find some solutions that would just like to suspend this recognizability of trade or the recognizability of this particular manufacturer, which in this way avoids, or allows this logo to define what a logo is to define in itself a unique way. So again, we are going back to this in our opinion of the HSLS Club the most important problem is to really determine why the existing law is not being implemented, but if the existing law is not implemented then it is really a big question of how this new law is going to be implemented, and yet I say I would not like to pass laws just because we can tell the European Union here we have one such law. That national program, that's a good thing. If I'm not mistaken in 2005, it's done. It all comes down to you know, always there, I'm always afraid of these, these highlights of March 8, May 1st, and so that March 15th is just one manifestive day. Again, let's say that we have it, and we'll file a report in the Parliament that we'll take to the knowledge and not actually get rid of anything else. We should work on this constant education, constantly informing these end-users, and I am just about to remove these, these existing obstacles that are just making it impossible for this otherwise positive and praiseworthy law not to be implemented. Now, in good hope and faith that, and in the end, we have the time until the second reading that right now, this seems to me really unbiased and extremely benign and possibly removable remarks, to be incorporated into the existing text of the law until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82080	Thank you. Club IDS, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82081	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, ma'am from the ministry. As regards the Consumer Protection Act, it is certain that our country's strategic goal is full membership in the European Union, and therefore this law should be in line with European Union legislation. Such laws should ensure the stability of institutions, the rule of law, respect for democratic principles, human rights, international law and the market economy. The European Union has started protecting consumers in the 20th century, and by then they have certainly brought in a large number of acts that regulate this problem, as the modern market certainly requires a high level of consumer protection. The General Assembly of the United Nations also adopted a Resolution 1985 on Consumer Protection Guidelines to encourage Member States to regulate this area legally, and to develop institutions that should inform and educate consumers and effectively protect them, effectively protect their rights. That is why, to date, a rich consumer protection legislation has emerged in the European Union. That's how we see how late we are for the modern world. The basic postulates to be taken into account and maintained are certainly the protection of consumer health and safety, the protection of economic interests, the right of consumers to be informed and educated, the right to compensation for damages, association, representation and participation of consumers in order to establish their rights. And what has the Republic of Croatia done so far? It adopted the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2005-2006 and the Consumer Protection Act 2003 and is now proposing a new Consumer Protection Act and under the form of compliance with the European acquis. Good intentions in themselves we all know that they are not enough because as Dante says and the journey to hell is started by good intentions but good intentions are not enough to write a good law. With both the law and the good intentions of our consumers, I'm sure they feel unprotected. For the law to be good to be understood, all its articles must be clear, precise and unequivocal. The worst thing that can be in one law is that articles can be interpreted in one, two, or more ways, and so that some articles do not know at all what the promoter wanted to say. That is why it would be best if this law were withdrawn or that, until the second reading, it would be thoroughly nomotechnically arranged, because if the goal is to achieve the goal and that is to educate consumers on their rights to be understood and clear. I can give you an example of Articles 107 and 109. I consider myself quite educated but I really don't know what the promoter meant by that. What is the concept of unfair business practice? It's just one of the examples in a row. If it is contrary to the requirements of professional attention, if it has a significant impact on a particular product or is likely to have a significant impact on the economic behaviour of the average consumer to which this practice is directed or to which an average member of a particular consumer group is located. Can someone explain to me what this means to have a significant impact or that it is likely to have a significant impact on the economic behaviour of the average consumer? Who's the average spender, etc? The Consumer Protection Act is certain that the framework for the content of the National Consumer Protection Programme, which develops all aspects of consumer protection policy in the Republic of Croatia, is that certain rules of conduct of all entities actively involved in the implementation of this policy and seem to be a lack of feedback on the implementation of a national programme that should be the basis for the creation of a new Consumer Protection Act and not just the need to comply with the legislation of the European Union. In this context, it is also necessary to highlight through this proposal the importance of continuous communication and exchange of information between the ministry responsible for consumer protection, inspection services of the State Inspectorate, sanitary and other inspection services and bodies involved in the resolution of consumer advertising and complaints, as the Consumer Society points out. And that's not the case now. Consumer organisations consider that the negligible influence of representatives of the Consumer Protection Association appointed to the advisory bodies is established in the units of local self-government and state administration bodies and that they are in a disproportionate minority in decision-making bodies of interest to consumers themselves. The opinions are also of the need for the Consumer Protection Council, for the Consumer Protection Council to be the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia rather than the Minister responsible for consumer protection himself, and for calling the National Consumer Protection Council. Comments which also have consumer associations and which we in the IDS believe are important should be incorporated into this law until the second reading. In our opinion, a number of concepts that are completely unknown should be defined and are not defined in Article 3. It is also necessary to avoid their literal translation and implementation into legal proposals that are difficult to understand and then it is impossible to translate and revive in practice itself. According to this law, the text is literally translated or translated by a machine. Furthermore, in order to improve the law, it is necessary to specify the same deadlines. For example, what is the time limit within which the trader is obliged to respond to the advertising of certain products. More specifically, action sales, sales, price reductions must also be regulated in order to facilitate the advertising process for consumers who bought goods in one of these ways and to protect their rights as defined in the Law on Mandatory Relations. For example, in Article 23 where public services provided to consumers are referred to, we are not sufficiently clear and understated. It means that the activities of public service may someone explain to me why it is not in the interest of obtaining a profit. I really don't understand this article. Furthermore, in the indent of six Ministers responsible for Consumer Protection, the Rules of Procedure shall prescribe the number of members, the structure, the mandate of the members of the advisory bodies referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article and the advertising committee referred to in paragraph 5. Why would the minister determine that? It's still unclear. In my opinion, it should also be regulated by law. As regards Article 25, as already stated by counterpart Kovacevic, if the consumer in the court proceedings contests the account of the public service provider and all of the following indisputable accounts is properly settled by the public service provider, the consumer must not suspend the provision of services which has not been the case so far, and the question is, if the following accounts are not accurate and accurate, whether they should be paid. In my opinion, if it's a court dispute, there should be no exclusion or denial, I don't know whether the supply of electricity, water, gas or telephones. Because in these cases so far, if one account is not paid, these service providers deliberately exclude their consumers in order to force them to, regardless of the court dispute, whether the account is correct or not, pay that account. As far as criminal sanctions are concerned, we believe that sanctions should be determined as accurately as possible, may increase the penalties and all of this very clearly and taxively in order to comply with the provisions of the law and ensure consumer rights. According to this law, the price does not have to be highlighted on the product which, in our opinion, is not good. Also, the size of the declaration is not regulated and we all know that we have to read the current declarations with an increase. So if the European Union asks us not to prescribe the size of the declaration, then we can recommend that traders at the entrance to the store place us on loan increase that we can read the declarations. We also believe that merchants should have a book of complaints as the hosts now have. As for the outdated claims for all costs arising from public services as well as all household costs, it means that all is directed to be one year, because under the current Law on Mandatory Relations, Article 232 now direct costs are not reserve, flow water compensation and the like. It was pretty much when something is asked to change the law then there are excuses and it is not according to the European Union's instructions, but we believe that it is saying that something cannot be done because of the European Union and it certainly improves the laws that the European Union will not ask us to do so. All the debates so far have shown a lot of the shortcomings of this law and that it needs to be done quite well, and that I hope that all proposals, remarks and suggestions will be accepted until the second reading and that the law will be clearly improved. Here, we accept this law to go to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82082	Thank you. HDZ club respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82083	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! I welcome you all and welcome those who are following us from the Consumer Association and all consumers whose area is probably interesting and whose interests we are protecting here, of course, by respecting all the dynamic circumstances that occur in this area of trade in services and other activities that this law includes. The government has estimated that it is best to pass a new law which, apart from improving those novels from the previous law which has so far proved insufficiently to bring in a number of newspapers which in Croatian practice are the beginning of protection so that we have contracts at a distance and an unfair insurance and aggressive business practice covered by this law. And all the remarks that say that he is missing and that he did not cover this or that may not exist because we at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community consider this to be just a framework law, he is one frame for everything that will come from it, so for sublaws such as different rules and implementing acts that will then protect every area that the law allows. Perhaps we should just say the situation that is currently in Croatia and the circumstances in which this law is being passed and that is the consumption that is essentially very high, which ultimately results in a high debt of citizens, so we had the opportunity to hear yesterday that consumers themselves need to be protected from the intention of spending, by not being able to, therefore, legally stop spending their entire salary rather than leaving one third free of those activities that enable free of life. And if Croatia were suitable for trade, it also speaks for the daily opening of trade centres, and I would almost say that there is no world trading house that has not opened a centre in Croatia and all the research says that Croats will behave in the coming period as well. Because what they are doing in several European countries is that more than 42% of our population is saying that they will increase consumption in the coming periods. Therefore, since they cannot be educated at that speed, they need to be legally trained and protected from possible abuses in trade and in the sale of services. We would say that as friends of consumers, which is also this Croatian Assembly and legislator, we are in a situation that the current consumer rights in the Republic of Croatia protects the law of the existing, the Law on Mandatory Relations, different associations for consumer protection, consumer counselling and there should be no objection because consumer counselling centres are just opened where the most consumers are. It is logical to open first in Zagreb, then open in Split, Osijek and open in Pula and Rijeka. And then probably less environments will follow those trends. And for the work of all these consultations, from the material conditions to the payment of persons working professionally, the Ministry of Economy has provided several million kunas in its budget over the past year. We must also remember only, therefore, that we have had a very active implementation of the national consumer protection programme over the past two years. And what I said in the correction of the quote, repeat in and here, that in public services, health services, health and food quality, product safety, education, information, trade, financial services and banking, environmental protection, tourism and catering, and in real estate use, we ensured consumer education and consumer protection in these areas. Therefore, the national programme has been completed and the new law will further ensure the implementation of its activities. So on all those segments where consumers expect it from us. I would say, therefore, that in the legal text that is before us, the Government clearly shows that this is not a mere agreement with European laws, because in that case, it would use what it normally does with laws that only harmonize, so our legislation, then put it in an emergency procedure, we would only discuss it with the possibility of amendments and we would not have as much space as we now have when it is in the first reading here and when it is possible to make the most extensive remarks that I suppose the promoter in the good part and respect. Because there are some dilemmas and, therefore, respecting all the European Union directives we are taking, we remain to ask ourselves whether or not some articles should be completed. So in this part, I'm going to make our point. Therefore, from Article 3 where it may be necessary to consider that the consumer is any natural, but also a legal person in these cases, which are listed here, but when buying goods that are not intended for his business activity or performing their free profession. Therefore, if we come as a representative of a company to buy supplies, we must be in the same position as when he buys for his household, so that we can advertise it, so that we can return it, so I would ask the promoters to set that word legally in that article, paragraph 1. It is also not appropriate to consider the possibility that, apart from the objection that must be written, the book of appeals is essentially in place. What we have and in the catering facilities, I don't see any reason, or we don't see any reason at the club, that this book of appeals doesn't exist in every store. Because few people have despite growing connections to the Internet e-mail, few people have time or intend to write it in the mail. The costs are high and the complaint book should be in the store. And we come to Article 9 which has caused everyone who has spoken so far of course attention because it is a relationship, a clear relationship of price and product emphasis. It is that the practice at this time is such that there are prices on certain products and that there are prices at the place of sale. The place of sale is a shelf in most cases. But what happens when the product moves a little bit, now I'm going to say it under quotes, so it's not exactly above that price. So it happens a lot. Similar products with different prices are placed at the end of these prices and it is very difficult for the average buyer to recognise at which price it must pay. There's a big misunderstanding. That is why we propose that despite the fact that the European Union does not prescribe it, but does not prohibit it, on all those products where it is possible to highlight the price on the product. So we agree that the price for the unit of measures should be at the point of sale, that's something else. But the price of the final product, wherever possible because of its size, and we claim that 99.9% of the product has such size that it can be put in a price that is legible. All that is not possible is of course to understand. In addition, since the legislator must therefore think about all parties, consumers and service providers, we are not sure that it is good to say in Article 1 that the consumer’s monetary obligation paid by mail was carried out when the institution received a payment order, because no case of electronic payment is provided here. So there are different and so to say the services of certain banks where you're given a certain warrant for breaking and entering, but he can be on hold, he doesn't have to be carried out. So he's not chargeable until he's spent. I therefore ask the legislator to put in Article 1 the protection of the trader who says that in the event of payment by electronic, electronic payment via banks only when the order has been carried out. It's one thing to hand him over at the post office and pay off the money, and the other thing is when you give a warrant for an execution so he can be on hold and he can be returned because you don't have any money in your account. We also agree that in these documents that are accompanied by the product, so in the declarations that are prescribed by other laws, they are not these, they only speak here of the obligations that they exist, they do not speak of their content. So we also agree that sometimes it's very difficult, given the font they're written with, so to the size of the letter, to figure out what it's all about, and at least what the composition is. And that is why we hold that wherever it is possible, and that should be in the interest of the trader until we educate consumers to boycott those products that they cannot know neither the content nor the name to say so, that those letters are adapted to the eye of the average consumer. In Article 23, we propose that the words "and their activity is not for the purpose of obtaining profits" in paragraph 1 are deleted outside because all companies are less than or less involved in both electricity and heat and natural gas profits. We have a case that Croatia's electricity industry is one of the big income companies. And that's why it's simply unnecessary for us to limit ourselves and then have some dilemmas. So we simply unnecessarily restrict ourselves and then have some dilemmas. So let's just say it's those companies that carry out their activities and that this activity should be available to everyone on equal terms, to wipe this out. In the area of application in Article 29, it may also be necessary to consider how to regulate the entry into force of a purchase contract, i.e. contracts concluded outside the trader’s premises and how to determine whether the consumer specifically wanted someone to come sell him something or not. Therefore, there is a very slippery border and therefore we think that this relationship should be developed in Articles 1 and 2, or perhaps we should delete it on a explicit demand from the consumer in general from the article outside. So we support this whole head that applies to distance contracts, it's all settled, and now we come to that new area that's so far, not at all consummated in Croatian legislation, it opens up some new spaces, but it's also a translation from European directives, and of course we at the club of the Croatian Democratic Community accept the intensity of these articles, but if we go from the maximum that every law should be clear and that it must be implemented then we represent the the thesis that the complexity of the text can't be an excuse for the incomprehensibility of the text. So, the text has to be such that the set of sentences is in line with the Croatian language, that those concepts that are common knowledge, so we also hold that there is work to do for here one lecturing process and we think that in the second reading we will get a text that is more understandable and then implemented. Therefore, it relates to Articles 108, 109. ... Right there, right down to these consumer-protectors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we ask nicely that this text be adapted to the rules of law in Croatia at all and that further consideration be given in Article 108(2), I will now not go here to read specifically about everything, in which way I can assess the average member of those groups who have some flaws, who have a certain age or have a certain age of greed. I'm asking you most beautifully, so it's something new, I'm not to end up rejecting that area, but here's if there's someone who can qualify it here to make it clearer or to make some expressions fit or wipe it out at all. So the same applies to what is meant by paragraph 2 when it comes to belongings, whether that clearly defines parts, ingredients or something else, so that those to whom these rights apply can then consume. Finally, we come to a consumer protection holder, we are therefore to strengthen the work of the Consumer Protection Council, to be one of the national bodies that will help the government implement all these provisions, but we need to think about it, therefore, and I think of what most of us here have been saying to consider whether the President of this Council should and may be a minister, since there can be no conflict of interest, but therefore the conflict of the area that he is working on, because it must be equally protected, and it is in the interest of the Ministry of Economy that he is equally well doing production and trade, and that consumers are being protected, so that there are not some possible that I should say a dissent, it is good to think that the President of that Council is then being an independent person. Because in the end, we should say that all of this is here, and in the broken provisions are guaranteed which are therefore fines for monetary violations very high that when the law is passed, I expect that he will come to another reading very quickly, that we will adopt him here, and that he will take effect 8 days from publication, that then organised consumers will be able to set up as an equal partner, and the government is therefore at the same pace that civil society is helping her in the work. Here in this part and existing consumer associations should naturally be respected, understood as a partner, and then we propose in the club of the Croatian Democratic Community, so that, in addition to these remarks that we have presented, further consideration and possible improvements from those amendments that have been given to the consumer associations and consumer associations, a text that will eventually appear that will be acceptable to all, and I repeat this again and therefore demonstrates that the Government is taking great care of the systematic coordination of all stakeholders in this society and the balanced development of all. Therefore, consumers can expect that during this year 2007, when there is also a year of education for consumers, i.e. to say lessons about their rights, and so far this has been the case, we have judgments that when someone appeared as a prosecutor they stepped up for consumer protection, so some decisions by local authorities that were not legal were abolished. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82084	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82085	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. As we see in the introduction of the evaluation of the situation related to this Law, which the Proposer pointed out in a rather short and clear way when it came to market economies, starting from the United States to the European Union countries, legal solutions to protect consumers have been reported there in the '70s. First of all, I think it was influenced by the mass media. Namely, the means of public communication used by traders were such that they conditioned the necessity, that the inferiors that appear on the market, which are consumers, the customers in this case are educated and protected as far as possible in view of the pressing, the constant pressing done by means of public communications to them and in other ways. Today, mainly in the globalised market, the globalised world end-user customer can say it under constant impact, advertising and situation, comes into one situation when and the freedom of its choice is determined depending on the means that the trader concerned invests in marketing services, when it comes to marketing and the total cost of marketing that it wants as much and as effectively as possible to place its product. In other words, the consumer is exposed to a constant blow by traders on the one hand, and on the other hand by the most ordinary speculators. In any case, the need for a law to regulate the relationship between a trader and a consumer is one necessity. We had it as we had already, as colleagues and colleagues have already pointed out a law which should now be in line with EU legislation. I believe that this is both an economic and a sociological but certainly social and ethical issue, and I believe that in these relations, the proposals put forward here by the trader-user that these relations must be regulated, maximumly regulated in a way that is inferior to legal provisions and safeguards. This is like I said to smooth out our legislation with European Union legislation. This is a very complex matter and I find it difficult to describe this matter in a simple language, but my comments are, as well as my colleagues and colleagues' comments before me, going that certain legal provisions should try to formulate as simple as possible. For them to be acceptable and understandable to those who will consume this law, which are customers, they are consumers so that this law is also for the buyer no matter where he, where he, the average buyer in Croatia and in Sinj and Zagreb, and everywhere in Croatia, is understood, acceptable, that he can... and that the provisions of that law can be used on the market, when it comes to the market and when it meets the trader. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to certain dilemmas, I would say the complexity or certain ambiguities arising from the proposed law, I would only illustrate in Article 3 where certain expressions mean so I quote: "The creator of the rules of conduct of the trader that appears in Articles 102, 109 and some other articles. I think that term, this syntagma, is quite complex and should be adapted to the spirit of Croatian. But I'll repeat, it's hard now for the higher math, the integral account to be aware of the four basic mathematical operations, and I think the professional services and the Ministry have been ahead of them so far, and there will be one rather demanding job for this second reading. In any case, the language of the law should adapt as much as possible to the spirit of the Croatian language and to the Croatian customer, the Croatian consumer. In Chapter 4 of the Public Service chapter, I think that here the Proposer engages in defining better say redefined public services. That's a very sensitive question. I think that they are, public services are defined by other laws and should not be introduced into the concept of public services, public products or public goods any way you want, something that has already been amended by the Law on the municipal economy and some other changes to the law already been thrown out, as is the case with electricity supply. It is a commodity that is on the market and it would not be good if it appeared as a public service regardless of its meaning for both the individual and the trader. I believe that the concept of public services as defined in Article 23 should be approached in such a way that existing provisions are necessary whether they are subject to the Law on the municipal economy, the Law on Waste, the Law on Waters, the Health Act only requires those legal provisions to be approached by the already existing legislation and that what is already regulated in the concept of public services is what is already in the Croatian legislation or legislation of the European Union. On the other hand, we are in a situation where, in Article 27, paragraph 2 mentions the possibility of competition when it comes to public services that are in themselves a monopoly. I believe that the contradictions in this article itself should be avoided and I hope that the proposal for the concept of public services will be processed, defined in a way that will be accepted here in the Croatian Assembly for a second reading. In particular, I would like to stress that consumer associations themselves reported in the 1990s in the first place as a response to the quality of the price of public services, starting with utility services such as water supply, draining. The price of cleanliness, then the price of electricity and others and I think they're in, and the first steps I'd say to the consumer protection association if they had, if they had, if they had come forward. The provisions of the law of Article 28 to Article 95, when new technologies are involved, the new way of trade, payment and so on, is fine by electronic business in relation to the trader-user. I think that's a good deal for the promoter. Maybe there's some kind of change here and there, but that's a good deal. Then we get to the article, articles 95 to 112. I believe that this part of the bill should be made even more thorough, once again thoroughly passed and linguistically processed when it comes to unfair consumer provisions, consumer associations. An unfair, unfair business practice. I believe that these are areas that need to be defined even more precisely, and I believe that there are some provisions that will be, which are difficult to consume by the average consumer or the average citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Chapter of Consumer Protection and how to protect against the way of protection starting with the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Consumer Protection Council, the role of local self-government units and associations themselves. This proposal for a law is well defined and I believe that only by common action can consumers and end-users and customers be educated in such a way as to be able to consume the provisions of this law and by joint efforts by units of local self-government. I will repeat that they have a very, very important and large role to play in terms of education and in the sense that end-users consume those rights that the applicant wants to be in the final draft of the law and that are going, and which are in the exclusive interest, in the interests of consumers. Certainly, all these provisions of the laws that are before us and complete the whole law apply to the trader. That the trader is in, that traders will be in one situation regardless of whether it is small traders, natural persons or large chains, regardless of whether it is the sale of technical goods, food goods or any other goods on the market as public services. I think traders will have to study the law thoroughly, and to accept the rules of the game in terms of a correct market relationship. I think that it will be one of our lasting concerns and that both associations and institutions and inspectors and all other services and all citizens will de facto have to work on this thoroughly, and that the anomalies that are present will not only be with us but also in the world at all in these relationships of the shopper, i.e. the consumer trader, in order to be regulated in a quality and good way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82086	Thank you. Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82087	Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues should, of course, come into the debate on this law from a single finding written in the light of the law, which I quote: “a common feature of all modern democratic states, the protection of economically weak parties in business transactions, the market, and therefore consumer protection laws in those countries are also protected and natural persons, consumers when buying products and services for their non-professional purposes or for persons and family needs, and of course there is a civilizational gain of developed democracies. And in this respect, we actually need to make the first serious objection to this law. It's good to introduce the so-called. public control through the Consumer Council, the Union of Consumer Associations, a personal consumer. But it has proved that the most effective protection of consumer rights takes place, for example, in the United States, not only because there is a Consumer Protection Act, but also as there are competent national authorities implementing consumer protection, that is, that law. In the United States, there is a special Federal Commission to ensure this, and in this respect it should consider whether the time on our market and with us, of course, the State Inspectorate, which ensures that consumer protection laws are monitored and implemented from the point of view of legal harm, provide possible and set up a special consumer protection agency. Secondly, as an observation that should be discussed in principle, this law, when it is already falling into the definition of terms and definitions, accepts in itself a very noble function other than to regulate relations between operators on the market in relation to the position of consumers and traders, but also to be in the function of education, to train, to train both consumers and traders. However, it is clear then that in this Article 3 this number of concepts that are trying to define themselves does not correspond closely to the needs of education that should be in relation to the content of how this law regulates consumer protection is defined unsettled. For example, there are no concepts such as aggressive business practice, action sales, alternative consumer dispute resolution, packaging, arbitration, prices, product declaration, inspection control, State inspectorate, documents, public service, public speaking services, interest, communal services, code of conduct, counterfeiting what is, coupon, purchase, logo, retailing, monopoly and not to list so many thirty, forty concepts that would be necessary and which are used in this law to define the concepts in general with the aim of educating our consumers and traders regarding that part. In addition, it determines the meaning, purpose, content of the interpretation norm, authentic interpretation in the implementation of this law by those who are in charge. Second. The third observation concerns the fact that the law actually refers to consumer rights, in Article 1 and at the same time it is quite clear that a large part of consumer obligations is prescribed, and in this respect it should already point out in Article 1 that this law establishes the protection of consumer rights as well as the obligations of traders, i.e. sellers concerning certain issues to be fulfilled and the rights to be met in relation to consumers. I must further say that, of course, there are a whole series of certain things that could be fixed regardless of what the law is good for first reading and should be supported to go to second reading. For example, Article 8 makes it clear that, in addition to all these written objections, answers and ways they can be delivered to mail, fax devices and e-mail, etc. It is certainly necessary to keep the book of appeals not only as a traditional form of possible consumer complaint but also as a means in which, in fact, it is easy to verify and determine as a public book. Furthermore, as one serious remark is actually related to Article 14 in which the so - called “species ” is applied. The negative definition, and in this respect, is quite clear that this issue should actually be defined differently. It should not go beyond what is not possible, but should try to agree on the definition of how and which, as it must and in this respect, it would probably be more correct to place that the manufacturer has to attach the instructions for the use of the goods, etc. or that the instructions for the use of the goods may be glued or printed on products in such order and that I do not now list how it is possible to define. Anyway, I'm in favour of what's-his-name. an affirmative definition which will determine the rights and obligations of both parties. Why? In order to ensure that not only consumers, but also inspectors, when carrying out inspection supervision, are clearly and legibly aware of what needs to be examined and established, there are also very precise legal criteria when discussing these issues in order to determine whether the trader, i.e. the seller, has made a mistake or not. When it comes to Article 20, 21, 22, relating to action sales and otherwise to indicate the reduction of sales, we are of the opinion that action sales should be regulated more precisely and defined as it stands for. Then, as it is necessary to indicate the reduction of prices and sales and the physical separation of products at a discount, that is to say, the sale of products for the reason that it would avoid a whole range of misunderstandings between consumers and traders, because it is clear that today’s practice shows that there are certain shortcomings in this respect that should be more clear and precise. This question about public services is, of course, true. The application of one colleague who said that it was not only governed by this law but that it was primarily because public services are regulated by other laws. But public services, or the price, are used by consumers. Here, too, the question arises which are consumer rights in relation to the price, in relation to quality, time and delivery deadlines and in the performance of public services. The fact is that this is not really defined by this Law, and it is the biggest disadvantage that must be addressed if we want to have consumer protection and against these services, that is, the more we start to appear as hidden as possible, the open practice of trying to bring individual public service providers into practice with regard to consumers, whether it is physical or legal persons. Of course, there are a whole range of other issues that should be resolved about these public services. Among other things, paragraph 5 of Article 23 does not give a period of time to respond to a complaint about this consumer. In addition, this Committee raises the question of whether the Constitution should be opened and the possibility of a second-degree appeal if you are not satisfied with this solution and only after we go to court because we know ourselves how long the proceedings are in the courts and that, while we are actually in a position to exercise individual rights at all. Or, let's say for this conclusion of certain contracts by means of funds... communication where it is said that it would not be allowed to be completely forgotten to use, to place weapons, poisons, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should be absolutely installed or better said, it should be seen as a positive definition that only in specially registered means can be obtained under special conditions and criteria that must be met not only by the seller but also by the consumer, i.e. in order to obtain the right to do so. Let us also allow the article, about Article 115, to be related to comparative advertising, to be totally inadmissible to the present forms that we have had in the current Law on comparative advertising. For a simple reason, because we need certain categories of our consumers such as children, especially protection. In this regard, the current Law has done well and therefore the provisions of the current Law should be incorporated in particular by amending Articles 115 and 116. In Article 121, 122, it seems that few legislators have actually confused jurisdiction under the Constitution between the legislative and executive authorities, and then they say that the Assembly will also protect consumers. I don't know how other than the law. Therefore, this issue should be resolved quite differently and in this respect the question should be asked whether this Council of Consumers can be an independent and autonomous body, or whether it is the advisory body of the Minister, because it is quite clear that this is not possible as it is now foreseen. If so, it cannot actually protect consumers but will protect whoever is responsible for the implementation of this Law. This is not good and should therefore be separated from the Minister as a person implementing and in charge of the implementation of this Law. I'll see how I can make those other remarks that I still have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82088	Thank you. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. She's gone, she's losing her word. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82089	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to expand the debate a little bit on what I've said as the position of the HSP Club on this law. So the brief introduction is good. So, the objectives are well set, the work is not exactly what we should expect in the legal text, and the conclusion is this Law if it were an emergency procedure, if it were brought today, it would not achieve the objectives and what we want to achieve, and that is consumer protection. So, setting such standards, such criteria, that we will finally ensure consumer protection. Here are the main problems, probably you have, and in the meantime, between the club and this individual speech, I have received a few more letters from Croatian citizens who are actually exposed to racketeering both municipal societies, municipalities and cities, and the bodies of the state administration, or funds such as the Mirovinski Fund, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, all of which is the consequence of the applicable Executive Act. Because they took it into their own hands, and it is not a strange situation now that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, in the public register of the issue, is required, that the executive documents are not paid for one war for supplementary insurance in 2002. Or the case from the new chapel that I got, the municipal society of the community gave the lawyer that he didn't pay one war for the garbage drain. Does this Law, this Law, provide answers to these questions? He does not answer these questions, so the simulation itself shows that we need to work out many things for another reading. It is precisely agreed on what is the limitation period for these small claims from the point of view of the law, and large claims related to Croatian citizens. For example, the case, this one, the non-payments allegedly, under quotes, if a man says he paid but no more payments, the non-payment of supplementary health insurance in 2002 has grown to already 300 and some kuna, and let the war be minimal. Because there goes regular interest, tightens, and the lawyer takes his own and normally takes a public notebook. He can't prove that he's making an appeal to the executive order, yet his costs will rise because he won't be able to prove he paid for it. Now, we are wondering if we can bring ourselves into a situation where bodies, meaning, state administrations, because normally the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and Mirovinski, all of this belongs to the state administration, i.e. the public in the broader sense of that word, is how it behaves. Let's agree that such things can be an outdated deadline for a year. So, this year you can argue and go to the executions and forced charging for 2006, but you can't go for 2002, for 2003. So let's make the first order inside of where we can make it. This means within the framework of companies that are essentially the owners of municipalities and cities, within the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, within the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. So, state institutions and simulate what it looks like in practice. So, on all these cases that I've been talking about and we have a significant number here as probably all of you, it's obvious that this law doesn't give answers. Also on other matters and other issues, I will not repeat what my colleagues have said, but let's see in this section how the inspection services, or whether the provisions relating to inspection oversight and provisions relating to that part of the offence, will achieve the objective and purpose of achieving it. It won't come true given the part where we know for ourselves that over 60% of the misdemeanor reports that the inspectors file end up out of date. It means over 60%. How, say, a variety of different clothes and buy any product, come home, determine that the duration has expired, validity, you can't advertise if you haven't taken the bill. But the question arises how can this fact that goods are sold to which the duration is, validity means that they are expired. How is it possible to do that? And what now according to this when the inspector comes is visible, he will write a misdemeanor report, and the essence of the goods is out of traffic means immediately excluded and placed. That's the same thing that's different about me having to clear up a little bit with those mandates. I've been having a little discussion with my colleagues. The terms of office should be a little different. Why should it be different? Because the employer avoids paying the mandate directly rather than passing it on to his employee, and later he will not admit it. So in these situations, perhaps this solution of the inspector should also have the power of the executive document so that it is directly charged. Therefore, this part of the simulation that I have tried to show on these few examples speaks of what is set as a goal, as the objectives of this law, not being brought to life in the way we all want, means that consumers are protected. But I'm saying, I repeat to that variant, that we have to see these situations, there are irresponsible consumers, mostly because they complain about everything and everything, and then I've been complaining about the workers in these trade chains who have no pay anyway, so they get fired because there's a consumer who wasn't happy about how he treated him, whether he had a smile or didn't or didn't give God other different situations, and you, like, the same sellers get hurt and, so in that case, they're between hammers and tips because of what we say if there's a shortage of goods then the employer asks that this worker who has 2 thousand kunas make peace. Therefore, that part should not be forgotten even though the normal emphasis in this part is on consumer protection but not on being such a protection that the owner of a company, the owner of a company, can impose its obligation on the seller in this case. Therefore, all of these remarks and consumer associations and all others suggest that we must have a law that will be simulated and that is one problem that arises in Croatia mainly and related to compliance with the legal gains of the European Union, we must recognise that we are increasingly undermining the humane structure of the person who is directly working on the making of the law, and most recently it has been substituting in this part of the harmonisation with the legal gains of the European Union, because in order for the law to be able to work, we must first of all know what is going on in order to make those solutions happen, to give solutions that will be immulsified and, in implementing time, prove that these are the solutions that we raise our hand here. It is therefore good that the first reading is and I hope that in the second reading of all these things that we say today will be incorporated into the law, that we will get a law that will be enforceable and that we will be protected by the consumer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82090	Thank you. Replica, the Honorable Vice-President of the House, Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82091	Mr. Vice President, I would really like to join your position, in fact, that this whole chapter should be dealt with in violation of the provisions, because it is completely disproportionate. The amount of penalties provided for, or infringements provided for by the legal person in relation to the responsible person are totally disproportionate if the trader is added to this, suddenly you see that he is in an unfavourable position more often than he has to and implement the decision of his employer, i.e. the legal person, and in such a situation, in fact, twice the situation is brought to an unfavourable team more when it comes to the view and the fact that otherwise the sellers of us pass in a large part of the legal persons who do not care about the protection and exercise of workers' rights. Secondly, you rightly object that this law should be further completed until the second reading, among other things, it is seen that the old law is prescribed, for example in Article 147, and it is said that within a deadline, it will not be said that "in a period of 6 months" that the government will adopt implementing regulations or is simply omitted, and in 151 it is said, among other things, that sublegal acts adopted under the applicable law until now, and in 152 that the applicable law so far ceases to apply, while at the same time it is not said that these sublegal acts that will be passed, which have been passed if other acts continue to be adopted, will not apply if they are contrary to this law and can lead to a situation where we have a conflict between sublegal acts and the law itself which we have passed, which is actually a very painful and difficult issue relating to the functioning and the rule of law and state. And the last remark you didn't say, though, but I'll take advantage of it when I'm able to get through the replica. A special chapter should be opened so that consumers can join alliances and associations at national level and this Consumer Council that you have foreseen as an advisory body should be the national consumer council in the Republic of Croatia, as it should be kept in mind that both functional and territorial criteria can be established by the consumer council in the Republic of Croatia. Let's say from these provision of public services through material nature to the issue of selling products for broad consumption where everything can be established and organised by consumer councils and it would be good to have them because they would be more controlled than traders do and work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82092	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82093	Your Honor, Mr. President, I agree with this part of what Mr. Arlovic said, but I suggest that in what way the proposer can remove it. Look, obviously, when you do these provisions, you need to talk to a state inspectorate who does these jobs and other inspection services, because the ministry doesn't have an inspection service in that section, so there are problems. And I also suggest you talk to the High Court of Infringement, because the High Court will give you views from which it is apparent that everything, that many situations must refuse or reject criminal charges as such because of the fact that it is not good in the law of the norms arranged. There are many such situations and should be used meanings and experiences from the practice of the High Criminal Court and will hold special discussions and sessions on the subject because in this way with these simulations with practical problems you will come up with a solution which will be both applicable and able to apply the inspectors, and where there will be no problem with the infringement courts, because we need to be aware of the facts of these affairs of labour inspection and persons who have no legal knowledge means that they have other knowledge, and it is important that the legal, good and correct report is also correct, but it is important that it is also criminally determined and not that what happens to us is what happens to us, that 60% goes into the wind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82094	Thank you. Another replica of respected MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82095	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems to me that what my colleague Kovacevic said to me is crucial that consumer protection in practice is reflected or exhausted in a way that is responsible for this protection or violation of consumer rights by the employer. And that's something that's scary and scary. This proposal, the final draft of the law, should make it impossible to do so with a saying. As we see this whole bill of law is the need to bring our legislation into line with the European Union. The European Union is seeking this, to protect man as a consumer, but what we must especially insist on, to protect man as the creator of this goods, and not yet to fit this law instead of the employer, instead of the supplier of this goods, so often there is a man of goods, or he is treated as a slave and he is even less protected. The state is obliged to protect, above all, man and consumer, but primarily if it did not protect him as a worker, it will be in vain and such protection will be provided to another person through other workers and creators of these goods who often exploit this worker and in this way. I think this is a very valuable warning especially if we stick to that fundamental constitutional principle that our country is a social state and we all have to insist together that it becomes as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82096	The reply to the replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82097	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I agree with this, and that's why I'm proposing this solution, I know a lot of cases like this or a situation where a mandate is allowed. The inspector comes in, the normal worker usually gets scared, he pays or takes it out of the register, boss doesn't admit it to him afterwards, says it's your problem, it's not my problem. For this reason, the term of office, these are the situations that happen to you everywhere. What if he complains about the inspection? He's going to get fired, mahogany because he's been admitted for a certain time, or he's been admitted with some trial deadline or whatever. Therefore, such situations of the term of office should go to the variant that it is a solution that has the executive power so that it can be said at the expense of the boss and not that in this case workers who can't even recover their money can get fired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82098	Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82099	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear assistants of the Ministry of Economy, colleagues and colleagues! I'll support the proposal for a consumer protection law. Otherwise, consumer protection is a civilizational asset of developed democracies of regulated markets and a system of values that is in constant development. In the European Community, there is extremely rich legislation in the protection of consumers. The modern market is spreading very quickly, rapid changes in the market. We see that in our country, there are more and more department houses, on shelves of increasingly diverse goods, similar characteristics from different countries. Sometimes hard or completely unreadable documents that follow the product. Citizens of Croatia, consumers have the right to legal protection and support of the state and thus to protect health and safety and economic interest. In the application of the Consumers Act, which was adopted three and a half years ago in 2003, it has been shown that its provisions are missing, that a significant part of the existing regulation is not implemented, that the exercise of basic consumer rights, its dignity and economic interest is hampered. As a consequence, it is not surprising that many areas have been identified during the analysis and assessment of compliance of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia for the protection of consumers with European legislation in Chapter 28. Consumer protection and health have been identified, and the Republic of Croatia has taken the obligation to comply with clearly established deadlines laid down in the negotiating positions for this area. I am pleased that, when this proposal for a Consumer Law was drawn up, opinions and remarks were taken into account with discussions between the authorities of the state administration, professional associations of traders, the Consumer Protection Association, independent experts, representatives of the academic community and others, the opinions of foreign consultants from the CARDS projects and representatives of the European Community were included. I believe that the new Consumer Law will improve and simplify the more effective implementation of the consumer protection system in the Republic of Croatia. Consumer education and information is very important. Article 128 regulates consumer information and education through a basic and secondary education programme in such a way as to include basic knowledge on consumer rights and obligations in teaching programmes and to carry out the cooperation of the Ministry of Consumer Protection and Ministry of Education and Educational Education. There's also no protection without good legal protection. Therefore, I believe that the right way to resolve consumer disputes is laid down in Article 129, therefore, those disputes which could not be resolved directly with the trader or outside the court settlement of consumer disputes before the Court of Honor of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Court of Honor of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. This way of resolving consumer disputes is much more flexible. Since bringing the lawsuit to court, which in many cases can be better suited to the needs of consumers and traders. Compared to the judiciary, these systems are cheaper, faster and more unofficial and thus more attractive to consumers seeking legal protection. I also believe that it is extremely good and important in the law to be well-defined, i.e. by the trader and consumer in relation to consumer loans. Consumer loans are growing. With increasing amounts of loans and therefore it was really important to prescribe the form and content of the consumer loan contracts and to define an effective interest rate for the loan. It's just like the bank. The effective interest rate on the loan is the total cost of the consumer loan expressed as a percentage of the amount of the loan granted at the annual level. It actually allows to show the convenience of certain loans because it was common before it was only an interest rate and the other costs were not. Now there is a provision, therefore, about an effective interest rate and it makes it impossible. The trader is also obliged to inform the consumer of the maximum amount of loans, of the annual interest rate, of the costs charged at the time of the conclusion of the contract and the assumptions and procedure for the termination of the contract. As a whole, by analysing this law proposed by the Government, there is a better and more transparent regulation of consumer legal protection, raising public awareness, and this is a great guarantee for better economic impacts and overall economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82100	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82101	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'm correcting the quote of a colleague who pointed out that as a lack of existing law is not law enforcement. Non-compliance with the law is not a lack of existing law. That's the lack of law enforcement, and that's government and that's to be more precise. Therefore, it is not a lack of existing law but a lack of government and it must not be as a reason for the need to change the law. Because if that's the need to change the law, what does that mean? That we are now passing a law that will actually cover the lack of a government that is unable to implement an existing law that has also been in line with the provisions of the European Union. The European Union requires that consumer protection in a way and indeed insists on it by any modern democratic state but consumer protection is not only realised by the law but by the application of the law and here for three years they have shown that there has been no such application.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82102	Replica, a respected representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the trail of what Mrs. Lalic said. The fact that certain provisions of the law are not implemented. I would have been a respected colleague Majdenić far more pleased if you had told us what provisions of the existing Consumer Protection Act are not implemented, why they are not implemented and who is responsible for it. As certainly as counterpart Lalic said by the Government, or the State Inspectorate, who mostly has his fingers in it on one side. In addition, you said that you were satisfied that regarding the curricula and programmes, i.e. information and education of consumers. As Article 128 is conceived, I am afraid that there will be none of this because it is said here in Article 128 that the participation means that basic and secondary education plans and programmes should contain basic knowledge and then the ministry responsible for consumer protection and education should participate in the preparation of consumer education and education programmes. The only flaw doesn't say anywhere when it's going to be done, whether it's going to be from the next school year, or in three years, as you've now said to us very vividly because the law doesn't have to be re-adjusted. So, no deadlines. What is the obligation of the existing ministries? I guess if we have good intentions and fair intentions, we'll have something like that from the next school year in elementary and high school programs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The 128th article says that the ministry responsible for consumer protection and consumer protection activities can co-operate with educational and educational institutions, so it does not have to. If it's put on imperialally, then it's going to be something, but this is how it stays on the field of volunteering, and that's usually zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82104	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82105	This law is one of the laws that has been passed and that are not in fact harmonised. They are the result of a government that passed the law on the basis of compromises and they are inconclusive. In the light of this law on page four, you see everything that is not enforceable and I think that the law is so consistent and that it is so good then you would now, when you comply with the European Union, with these laws, therefore it would not be at all a matter of having to be carried out in such a large number of articles. As far as education and the tendency of the European Union are concerned, consumers are, in fact, more than the earliest age, educated to protect themselves in this way. This is especially necessary now to protect our young. You've seen that they're influenced by a large number I'd say commercials and negative commercials. We, as a society, have to lead on the protection of these very youngest groups and that is why education in primary and secondary education is necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82106	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82107	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Assistant Minister of Economy! Well, here's the debate on the Consumer Protection Bill. I was encouraged by the lawyer's proposals for children. The fact is that children are underprotected from the influence of aggressive commercials, we witness daily, that a large number of shops are intended for children, that Saint Nicholas has received reinforcements in Santa Claus, Santa Claus and that imports of toys are enormous. Probably in an unfavourable ratio of imports, exports, goods, for example, from Chinese toys play a significant role. Finally, the former prime minister of the former government has adapted the law to the profits of his company known for selling toys. By observing children as a consumer, the Ombudsman points out that "aggressive child-oriented promotion, I quote, teaches children to appreciate material goods as crucial, that consumer habits acquired during childhood stay for life. Therefore, the impact on children through advertising is profitable in the long term," the end of the quotes. Children have an important impact on the level of phone bills. The result of aggressive advertising of porn content in the daily newspaper, you can finally see the daily newspaper, half the pages are just calls for porn content. Advertising porn content should be in specialized magazines, not services to children, because there is a family of unpleasant customs, an awkward custom to buy daily press, and children then read it. The public defender seeks the addition of Article 114 of the wording "Advertising that causes or could cause physical, mental or other harm in children who give children messages or parts of messages that are being used or abused or could be misused by their gullibility or lack of experience.". It also requires that the law prescribes as an unfair form of aggressive business practice advertising in places where children such as schools, kindergartens, children's homes are staying. And finally, let's remember the examples of such an unfair aggressive policy at the beginning of last school year when first-class students were shared by SDP MPs with a small red bear. We see evidence of bad intentions with premeditation these days as the president of the SDP paints with a small red bear, I guess the children have adopted it in the meantime, a symbol of new democratic changes. I'm only concerned that symbolically with the bear's strength compared Stalin, history is usually repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82108	My colleague Miroslav Korenik, was it a replica or? Correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82109	I'm correcting the assumption that the former minister of the former government has adapted the law to himself because you've obviously disrupted something in your mind. That minister you're talking about back then was no longer a minister, just for starters. And by the way, when you say that the law has to be harmonised because of Europe, the fact that Croatia's position in 2003 was different from today's position was something else. Some new directives have also been adopted which are incorporated and which do not comply and which are not incorporated into their law or old members of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82110	Okay. There was no correction with honey? ... There is no Europe. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. He was just before, and now he's gone, and then he loses his right to say a word. Dear Representative Miroslav Korenik, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the fact is, I'm on my way right now to where I'm standing to correct the inaccuracies. The fact is that we are very clearly told on the Committee that this law also seeks to further protect consumers' rights and that they have not yet come to life. I will only get to Article 123 where it is said that the bodies of the local and regional and local self-government units are obliged to systematically promote consumer protection in their fields and support the activities of consumer protection organisations. I would like the representatives of the motionary to explain and explain what it means to support me. Supporting her is often some kind of verbal support. We know that in the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, one of the obligations of local self-government is also consumer protection. However, I personally advocate that it is immediately written to finance and then to know how it is done? Especially since Croatia currently exists and this is what we received yesterday, which unfortunately does not explain this Law only 23 consumer protection associations. And when we tie that up with Article 121, where we talk about who consumers are, we also have some illogicalities. It is illogical that consumer protection holders are only the Croatian Parliament, the Government, the Ministry, the State Inspectorate and then look at miracles. We come to the municipal or city councils and the City of Zagreb Assembly. It seems to me that we forget that executives in these units of local and regional self-government are heads. These chieftains also create annual budgets. Therefore, if we want to use these carriers to determine that some programmes and consumer protection associations are financed, we also need to place executives here for sure. It also seems to me that we should go towards local and regional self-government and with additional resources because I keep saying that we are constantly transferring additional duties to local and regional self-government units, and we are not determining them additional sources of funding. In this article 127, it is said that consumer counselling centres will be established and that there will be a network of those consultations. In line with these networks, we will know what their number is, whether it will be a one-stop shop in the county and, for example, in Varazdin County, a citizen or dissatisfied, one who seeks advice must come from Bednja to Varazdin 40 kilometers. In this economic situation, it is a matter of economic justification. By the way, paragraph 4 of Article 127 again states that units are local self-government, these are the most common cities which I assume will be the headquarters of such counselling offices obliged to provide space means to finance a space for the work of a consultant and for its work the money is provided in the State budget. I think it would be more convenient here, and I suggest that by the second reading, we consider that we also have consultations or their outposts where we have bodies, i.e. the ministries or the bodies of the state administration in the counties. For example, in Varazdin County, this would be 4 seats because usually all those municipalities around these cities are gravitating towards them. It's easier to communicate. People will get there easier. And ultimately consumer information and education. I'm not saying anywhere where we don't have deadlines, it's not going to be anything. And it seems to me that this law in the good part lacks deadlines in which certain things will be done. The most common is the adoption of certain sublaws for 6 months, but here is the strangest thing about education and consumer information. That only defines one article with three, with three points. But there's nothing on the deadlines. If we really want it to become a practice and start from primary school with education then it should be for the next school year when we get allegedly free textbooks to start with it. In addition, I would ask for the same clarification under the obligations of traders in Article 5(6) when it is said that the trader is obliged to the consumer for the product and found that the product is incorrect, that he is obliged to fix it within a reasonable period of time. We know and practice teaches us that these reasonable deadlines often in paradoxical situations are enormously long. I'd beg to be prescribed here, which is a reasonable deadline. It may be, maybe it doesn't have to be in the law, it can even be sublegal regulations because we have different product groups that can be treated differently. But don't let that reasonable deadline be a waste of the law that will serve merchants to simply commit abuse. And I'd like to give another example about this year's ski season. Maybe I get some kind of logical answer to that. Our citizens signed contracts with travel agencies to go skiing. There's no snow and then they don't get their full price back, but maybe they don't even get anything back in the event of a stopover. Perhaps sublegal regulations should also protect consumers in such cases. It seems to me that this law in first reading can be supported. It is not clear to me that because the law is not being implemented or that certain items or articles of the law have not been implemented so far that the law is being amended. That's certainly not the case. However, I ask from, what are the reasons, and is this the pressure from Europe that the directives which are still old members of the European Union have not been incorporated into their laws, which are the reasons why we must apply them so quickly? If this is for the purpose of consumer protection, I accept it as such, but if it is a service to the European Union, I do not think it is useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82112	Thank you. Mrs. Alenka Koèa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected ministerial assistants are one of the significant features of modern democratic states, certainly protecting the economically weaker parties in business transactions on the market. Therefore, consumer protection laws in modern democratic countries also protect only natural persons or consumers when buying products and services on the market for their personal or family needs. The establishment of this area and the development of institutions that will report and teach consumers and effectively protect consumer rights has been initiated by the General Assembly of the United Nations. The Assembly has adopted the resolution in question for 85 years, and it contains guidelines on consumer protection and encourages Member States to protect consumer rights. That's where I would warn you of page two, the first paragraph of page two because there's one I'm going to say no to accuracy and I'm going to explain what it consists of. At the end of '73. the years of European countries which are signatories of the Treaty of Rome bring the European Charter of Information and Consumer Protection. Although this is the first formal European consumer protection act for consumers in Western Europe has been developing since the 40th century. We have to stop here and try to figure things out. In the assessment of the situation of this proposal, I quote: “The Treaty on European Union or the Treaty of Amsterdam states in brackets Article 153 etc. Consumer protection policies have become an autonomous policy." Page two. So, by reading this sentence, you might think it's two of those same documents, i.e. that there is a sign of equality between the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty of Amsterdam. If someone wants to be precise, then you should write the next one. By amending the Treaty of Maastricht, and after the Treaty of Amsterdam, then to quote in Article 153. The Treaty on European Community consumer protection policy has become an autonomous policy. Namely, the Treaty on European Union or the Treaty on European Union was signed in Maastricht in '92. the year, and the following year he went into effect. It was created by the European Union. It was actually amended and supplemented to the Treaty on European Communities, i.e. the '57 Roman Treaties. A year. Furthermore, a contract known as the Amsterdam Treaty was signed in '97. the year and contains only the 53rd article, not 153. Therefore, the proposal mentions Article 153 in the Amsterdam Treaty will not be found at all. Please fix it. It's one nomotechnical mistake, but it certainly creates some kind of uncertainty. The Amsterdam Treaty is complemented by a mastery and this famous article 153 is actually in this first contract, the Treaty on European Communities, which has been supplemented by two of those contracts. But let's go back to the very theme of the proposal. Croatia signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union and its members on 29 October 2001 with a clear commitment to the development of civil society and democratisation and the construction of civil society institutions. Article 74 of the Stabilisation Agreement, entitled Consumer Protection, states that signatories will cooperate to comply with the standards for consumer protection with Union standards. It also encourages active consumer protection policy, including greater information and development of independent organisations, effective legal protection of consumers in order to increase the quality of goods of broad consumption and to establish appropriate safety standards. In line with the commitments made under the said Agreement, Croatia also took over the European Union guidelines on consumer protection in its legislation. In 2003, the Consumer Protection Act was passed as a general regulation that was complemented by many other laws. Let's say the Law on the municipal economy, the Law on Standardization, etc. By passing the Consumer Protection Act, we can talk about a turning point in protecting our civil rights because in Croatia consumer protection until then was only an accidental product of certain legal relations. True, consumer rights have been regulated through several laws but it is also the fact that some areas of protection have not been regulated at all. Perhaps the biggest problem of this topic lies, however, in the fact that there is no culture in our society, i.e. a world view on the importance of consumer protection among entrepreneurs within the framework of educational programmes in the family and elsewhere. The long-standing neglect of the rights of natural persons has resulted in great ignorance of citizens and a minimum level of self-defense. In addition to the Consumer Protection Act, knowledge has been developed and developed, especially knowledge of the importance of consumer protection among the citizens themselves, including basic knowledge of consumer rights and behaviour in the choice of products and services in the educational process, etc. Smarts consumer, and strengthening civil associations that can significantly help in the education of citizens, providing individual assistance, but also educating themselves entrepreneurs. Let us not forget that consumer protection associations have minimal, or insufficient means to work. The funds mainly come from foreign donations, their independent activities and the minimum resources allocated to them by the Government of the Republic of Croatia from the state budget. Today we are going with a new bill, because consumer protection is a dynamic area, so consumer protection policy cannot be defined for one longer period. Given today's rapid changes in the market that reflect consumers, there is a need for constant monitoring of this area. We witness a consumer bombing every day. In Croatian society there is a visible gap between purchasing power and buying wishes of Croats. This is simply one of the things facing all the post-socialist states after a sudden transition to capitalism and an open market with an infinitely large supply of products. In Croatia, however, the phenomenon takes on almost pathological features. An awful large number of people live beyond their means, and most of them are in debt to get basic life, to get not basic life supplies but just a certain luxury. We just need to take a look at Croatian roads and see how many new cars are actually on the road. And we're not talking about middle-class cars and some average prices. The Republic of Croatia is a great market for luxury cars. The numbers say everything. Last year, more than 1,000 car-marked BMWs were sold in the Republic of Croatia, over 900 Mercedes stamps, Porsche 45 stamps, jaguar 37 pieces. In view of these figures, it would appear to man that the Republic of Croatia is an extremely wealthy state without any debts, whether internal or external. All this reminds of one song “one more beggar lies on the road, his cell phone rings although there is nothing to eat and it doesn’t matter what our Mercedes apartment is enough for us. ” What I am referring to with this is actually a social situation in the Republic of Croatia in which values are completely distorted. Although everyone is free to spend their money, I still believe that consumer protection goes to the same education to become so-called. Smart customers. And that term implies holding back from buying something we don't really need or ultimately can't afford. The trail of the Croatian slow but safe path towards the European Union should bear in mind that there are a lot of things to be careful about, and one of them is certainly consumer protection. On the one hand, because the Republic of Croatia is a relatively small country with a relatively low standard compared to other European Union countries, there are already rumors today about the products of the same producers that are on the markets of Central or especially Eastern Europe much lower quality than in Western European markets. On the other hand, there is no tradition in the Republic of Croatia of consumer protection and care and protection as one of the valuable, social and democratic values. Remember that the market is like democracy whenever you buy goods or service you are in a voting situation for your pocket. Choose the best candidates, teach the authors of the European Consumer Guide through the single market of Union consumers, and remind them that there is no division of consumers and those who are not. All consumers are in developed economies. All presently located in the position of the manufacturer or supplier of goods or services in another instance appear on the market as customers of goods or services or for their production or for personal purposes. Therefore, the general and individual interest is a lasting pressure to improve the quality of all market resources with both interests if the standard and the health status of each nation are restored. Of course there are interests that fall out of this general scheme. These are the individual interests of some goods and services manufacturers who are trying to make extra profits by placing on the market goods lower or different quality than those declared or expected by them. Domicillically, however, it is relatively fast, although it is not always easy to identify such bidders. The situation is becoming significantly more complex in integrated economies such as the European Union, which are still working to bring national criteria and practices into line today. Therefore, especially in recent years in the European Union, they are under the slogan "Europe of Consumers". Europe at your service." With a view to putting a single market on a service to European consumers, priorities have been identified. This is primarily the consolidation of existing legislation, the construction of an information system for consumers and the construction of a legal system. This is true for the Union and is true for all its members, present and future among which Croatia will certainly be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82114	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zeljko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82115	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me, therefore, refer briefly to the Consumer Law proposal. I agree, therefore, that Croatia needs as much as possible the Consumers Act as possible because it regulates a very important part of the lives of all our people, and we should all really be interested in getting the product from which we buy the product that we wished there was no surprise after that about the quality or useful value of this product. Here were the words, therefore, that this law was adopted in this form in order to better bring our legislation into line with European Union legislation. I think it has to be done. That's it. I think that we must primarily achieve the priorities of our legislation, i.e. This legislation and such legislation in the European Union. But this law did not do so, so I hope it will be done until the second reading. In fact, what exactly am I referring to? The European Union has other priorities, even at a time when it functioned as the European Community. In her documents, she said that the objectives and principles of consumer protection were therefore ranked so that the first place of the goal, therefore, of this system must be the protection of health, safety and economic interests of consumers in the first place. So health protection comes first. In its new legislation, the European Union has now given its task, i.e. It formed a consumer strategy for the period 2002 to 2006 and also puts it first. Therefore, the consumer policy of the European Union should firstly guarantee basic health and safety standards in order to ensure that the purchasers are safe and protected from illegal and misused practices of sellers. So again we intend to guarantee basic health, primarily health and safety standards. This law puts, among its objectives or its purposes, the right to protect consumers' economic interests. Of course that's important, of course, so it's important, especially today when wages are what they are, low, I'm not talking about pensions. So everyone has the right to buy what for their money and get what I think is right, not to be deceived. But then, somewhere else, the right to protect against the dangers of life, health and property. I think we should change that, therefore, that our priority should be precisely to protect us from the dangers to life, health and property of consumers. In this law you almost don't treat this segment. Health is mentioned only, I think, in just one word, therefore, in Article 15 where packaging is mentioned. So where is spoken in paragraph 1. that packaging must be harmless to health... the form and mass of the products, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're talking about packaging. The content of this packaging shall not be spoken in any word. And I think it's very important, therefore, that the product we sell is harmless to consumers. Also, it needs to be changed by the second reading. Especially with regard to the area of restricting the use of tobacco products, the fight against alcoholism and also the fight against obesity. Therefore, I think that an article 18 should be completed which speaks of the product notice. The product must therefore contain both the date of manufacture and the time limit of use, and in paragraph 3. therefore the exception is that further notification of the product may only be made if the product is prescribed by specific regulations. I believe that it must also be prescribed in this Article, Article 18. For these products to have different warnings, they must be informed of the potential adverse consequences of a product. I can name a drastic case here now. Last week in the paper we read, I don't know exactly where it was in South America about the death of a boy who died because he was mixing the lush coll and some mint candy. At the same time he consumed these two products, there simply was an explosion in his stomach and he unfortunately died. So we must be very careful, therefore, to work in that direction. So not to say that we protect our consumers, our people, especially our children, from the different negative influences of advertising, so here were the words, so I also support the prosecutor's insistence for children that her proposals regarding this law also apply. What I would like to add, and in fact it is a broader context in general for our economy in particular some of our economic branches in the Republic of Croatia that are in a very difficult position today. Here they can give an example of the textile, shoe industry. The textile industry was in difficulty when Croatian shops flooded products from China, from the far east, and often these shops, these products were not declared in the right way. It's about non-quality products that, therefore, our shelves couldn't possibly get there and couldn't withstand any control of any inspection. I have suggested an interpretation in this House, only to suggest a point of this interpretation. So I propose that excessive imports of low quality textile and footwear products into Croatia be prohibited and that it be ensured that a customer in Croatia is not allowed to access a product that does not follow a declaration of quality from health... products, or all of its ingredients. I think we need to make this more detailed in this law. I mean, first of all, Article 14 that talks about the product tracking documents. So on the one hand, we're flooded with the same kind of product that's unquality without ID, and on the other hand, we're passing these laws. The question arises as to what it is, so we must strengthen the work of our inspection. I can only say that this would not be an isolated, lonely example, that Croatia is taking such measures. No such measures are taken by Europe and Europe precisely against imports, excessive imports are protected and contingents are therefore... but on the other hand, and the increased conditions that these products have to have to come to some kind of market at all. [[You don't understand.]] Let me also read also one of the essential provisions of the consumer policy of the European Union which is current, because to establish a consistent and common environment across the Union to ensure that customers are safe about cross-border purchases, etc. So I think that, in that sense, we should, on the one hand, do this in more detail and strengthen the inspections that would control it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82116	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament visiting our Parliament is the delegation of the Czech Parliament led by Mr Jan Hamaček, president of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and we welcome them. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Now it's Mr. Ivan Bagaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82117	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to sum up my discussion on this subject in one actual sentence in a way that would mark this law not only as an individual's protection but also as the protection of individuals, the protection of the state, or society, and vice versa. The correctness and safety of food and other products we buy as well as the services provided are becoming increasingly focused on our interest and not only when it comes to the goods we buy as I said, but we are actually standing before other questions as to how much we believe that a professional, doctor, lawyer, and even a politician to whom we speak, will give us the best service and with a smile. It's as if in a little bit of what we believe we're going to get in beautiful eyes and as if we're used to the usual service, to the product as it is, infrequently suspicious or better said weaker quality, i.e.. quality. And when we buy a cat in a bag, a little who we complain to and complain about, a little who understands us. And that's what we're used to. On the other hand, when we are well received from anyone and receive a service that we do not need to pay for, then we are very grateful because we are used to different services, dignity and pocket, but our health is often affected as a result of the weakness of the system. not implementing this existing law. We have already heard that advanced societies have sought not to leave arbitrary but to regulate it legally long ago. Some European countries have long since adopted such a European Charter of Information and Consumer Protection under the Consumer Rights Programme. This Charter includes the protection of consumers from a financial point of view, as well as rights to protection against health threats, the right to notice, representation and education from this area. Therefore, the aim is to protect the consumer of products or users of non-professional services from those who sell and produce goods and services over time, so and over time, consumer protection has become a civil property of organised companies with a high level of sensitivity to the individual. I would not say that I have an objection, but that element of my contribution in terms of improving this law, I would suggest that perhaps this proposal should be referred in a certain way to the Croatian Institute of Public Health and that some of the issues be brought into line when it comes to the regulation of which is also spoken by counterpart Pavlic, and related to the purely health and regulatory aspects of this type. Finally, the proposal for a consumer protection law as well as a proposal for a decision to declare 2007 for the year of education of consumers in Croatia, I hold important instruments to ensure each individual, every citizen. Protect yourself from extortion, kidnapping, but also products and services of poor quality or be the victim of not telling a racket of this and that kind for every free man there should be no doubt, especially for society and state. There's no doubt about this government either. This is a bill that protects the right of every individual as I have said, but also prevents corruption. There's no doubt about us MPs either. Consumer protection is a protection of both countries and societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82118	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Tomislav Tomic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Assistant Minister of the Economy. Here I welcome the adoption of this Consumer Protection Act and, at first of all, to say that the Law is certainly an area which it processes complexly and cannot be passed over a longer period of time. So here, from 2003 to today, the need for this law to be extended, arranged, improved to achieve what is most important, and that is consumer protection in this global time. And I don't agree with some colleagues that the 2003 law was not implemented, that it was the government's incompetence, but precisely the adoption of the law for its indeterminateness in certain possibilities of incompetence, and not implemented, I would say, that's why it's necessary to go with the new law. And his justification is because 76 articles are complemented, 38 articles are new and only then would I say that this is a need to comply with the guidelines of the European Union, and these 10 guidelines are in one way and processed in this Law. And this is precisely the goal of the Republic of Croatia to seek through its legal arrangement of all economic areas, including the development of the area of consumer protection by setting better protection for market participants both economic operators and consumers as a whole. I would like to point out here that the law governing consumer protection I think that, in addition to consumer rights, the rights and interests of traders are protected as well as the rights and interests of traders are clearly formulated by the obligations of traders, which also protects them from sometimes absurd demands. And here I agree with Mr Kovacevic's debate, which he warned about, and I think it is now and in the context of the text, it is said that, in essence, under the past Law, the enquiries came primarily from traders and very few from consumers. And now I think that this is one move forward in regulating consumer rights, and that will make it easier for traders to work. I would like to contribute to my debate in some way of the Consumer Protection Act, we have also established the National Consumer Protection Programme, the Consumer Protection Council, the advisory body of the Minister, the consumer associations which are now 23 in the Republic of Croatia. And here we heard the participation and participation of local self-government units. Here, 9 associations from Split, Sibenik, Solina, Zagreb, Varazdin, Pula, Zadar have also received places to work from their cities, units of their local self-government. There are associations that have their own spaces, associations are formed, they work in all ways. So still, 23 associations guarantee that enough care is being taken between us and the government, us and everyone who's law-making, and here are the associations that have their own space in the world. Here I would like to point out about these price discussions, the new law comes, before the law has to be on the product, on every product or packaging and on the sales site. The new bill proposes the word "or." Here, I think that the specificity of all the products offered on the market might not be a bad formulation and I ask the legislator to see the possibility of putting "i/or". Depending on the specificity of the products that are located because we talked about the increased and everything. Yet those studies that say that our 20% of consumers are somehow educated by their rights. I still think it's a much, much larger number of consumers. They probably do not know all the legal provisions, however, but they certainly know their rights in protecting relationships with a trader, or in buying. The same changes in the declaration. The fact is that the declarations on certain products are really small, is not prescribed size. However, it is also a fact that absolutely on all products is simply a declaration or a new name, a product notice and cannot be placed. So he still has to be in a visible place, on a shelf, etc. There are products that simply cannot get a declaration on themselves where they will be absolutely all about the product, name, seat, date of manufacture, period of use, country of origin, type and model, etc. It is simply impossible so that this product notice also has space on the shelves. And in any case, the basic point of the law is that the consumer should be familiar with what he buys. In the same way, the improvement of these provisions on the provision and use of public services. So I agree here that in a court case, it means, if a court case is initiated for one... In any case, the service provider should not suspend the delivery, but with, thank God, only in the case of a court dispute, not if it is not paid, etc., which was the word. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then the service provider acts on what he has to and how he tells him to do both his business policy and everything. It is also well defined here in the Law that products that have a shortage with a guarantee, etc., that simply the consumer has the right to replace it in trade, not that the trader or service provider sends it through guarantee, guarantee to the manufacturer, to the repairer, etc. I mean, no matter what the burden it is to the trader, he must have the right goods, that is, the goods what the guarantee list says, or the declaration that such goods say must be. And in some ways, he too has a responsibility and responsibility in the purchase and takeover of goods. I believe that with the current Economic Inspectorate, which has 600 employees, but also with the work inspectors, the electrical and mining inspectors, but also through other ministries and their inspectorates, sanitary inspections, veterinary inspections, in any case, we will be able to get a space for the implementation of this law on the ground among consumers. So I think that this number of really all inspectors can, in any case, do their job well with the improved provisions of this Law. And what I said at the beginning, the law is not for a great period of time. So, here, thank God we introduced that law and consumer care in 2003. I think year after year that worry will be bigger, and we'll all be more expensive and able to enforce that law. I also agree with colleagues who say they should be in the shops next to these written objections should be in any case also the book of appeals so that traders can more operationally meet what the law requires them to do. Here, the new Consumer Protection Act also provides for a school programme and basic and secondary education, and basic knowledge must be maintained, mandatory to the rights and protection of consumers, which will allow young people to understand consumer rights. As far as children and young people are concerned, I think their consumers, their parents, their families, etc. play a great role in this. So we don't throw everything to the legislators and to those who conduct that in some way I think there's a big role in the family, and this year it's probably going to be a decision on the year for consumers, and I think by autumn we'll be ready for a new school year in the teaching program, and like my colleague, Korenika, if I'm not mistaken, go to free students, I think we'll be able to make education at school so that even younger generations know their rights as consumers. It is also a positive thing not only for courts to protect the rights of consumers but also for courts of honor in the Chamber of Commerce, in the Chamber of Commerce, I think that this Law is going in the right direction, and all these and constructive remarks, as well as for no-technical errors, I think that the legislator will have enough time to adopt them in the second reading and that in the second reading we pass one good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82120	Thank you. We have one correction and one replica. First correction, Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82121	So I'm correcting the quote of a colleague who said that it's not true that today's colleagues here claim that the law is not being implemented. That's not what we're saying. That's what the proponent in the explanation wrote. Furthermore, it is incorrect that the law is not implemented because of the government's guilt. You know, if by law it is necessary to adopt a national consumer protection programme, and the government does not propose, within the time limit laid down in the law, that national programme, who is to blame? Government. And if funds are provided in the budget for the implementation of consumer policy, and these funds are spent over the year with 2.6 or 2.72%, then who is responsible for the non-application of the law? Well, of course it's the government's fault. Therefore, it is not our insinuations of our colleagues but we wanted to point out the need to protect consumers, but not only by declaring the law, and in this way we formally comply with the European Union's request, because we do not need the European Union's request because it is an obligation and the need of our citizens. So let us pass a law that we will implement not for the sake of the European Union, but for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82122	Thank you. That's your opinion. Opinion on the matter and not the guilty, because it's not a lawsuit, it's a debate. Replica, Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82123	Dear colleague, as much as I agreed with you that we should introduce education in our schools and about consumer protection, you stated in your presentation that you hoped it would be from the beginning of the next school year if I understood correctly what you were saying. As much as I personally and the rest of us like to do so, it will simply not be possible, given that we have had the opportunity to develop new content management in the curriculum and the program, since the new curricula and the programme has been adopted and published in "The People's News" on 16.9. this year, so only three months ago the programme doesn't change from year to year, it takes several years, at least 5 or 6 or 7 or 8. Therefore, until the programme is innovated, and just three months ago, it will not be possible to introduce it, and I am somewhat sorry that Minister Primorac and the whole team of the ministry did not introduce all these new innovative, integrated content as well as the consumer protection programme as many other programs, so here we hope that this appeal and my and yours, which I think we all agree together about, is also coming to the Ministry of Science that, in some future changes to the programme, we are also really introducing these more innovative, integrated content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82124	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82125	Thank you very much. In any case, I have expressed my belief that from next year we will already have space in elementary, school and high school education and for this topic so if this Law in some way, that advertising, aggressive advertising about schools, kindergartens, children's homes etc. is forbidden. It is not certain that I cannot believe that only the school program is so tight because it simply binds to each other, and some things can probably be passed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulation so that before this law how it will adopt the regulation, etc. The law goes then I believe it can, it has space. On the other hand, whether there has to be one word just or an hour etc. Each teacher, each teacher certainly takes care of his children, and in some ways he will suggest, advise and educate the child not to buy certain ads, purchase products, etc. Here, in this sense, I still believe that in the autumn we will also get this space and that I am asking both nicely and responsibly for the responsibility of aunts, teachers and professors to be greater and in line with this because they are consumers. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82126	Thank you very much. Five minutes on behalf of the HSS club, Mr. Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82127	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Assistant Minister of Economy, colleagues and colleagues. Let me try to show myself in one general, but also in an individual form in relation to some of the reasons that, in the HSS club, require special attention to be considered for the reasons that we are in front of the first reading, and we believe that, until the second reading, this proposal of the Consumer Protection Act can be made to the measure that is targeted, and that is the fact that consumer protection is primarily the gain of a modern civilised world, a world that has regulated market relations, a world that requires constant monitoring and adaptation to its market instrument. The papers introduced in this Law in the first reading, which include very important chapters, which were created as a result of strengthening the market instruments in the Republic of Croatia, would nevertheless be better at second reading to see precisely how this Law will be implemented. In fact, since 2003, the Consumer Protection Act and the Consumers Act have had good elements to protect consumers. The fact that this is in some way and does not happen is still a lot of reasons, much requires various associations, especially consumer associations that point to the reasons why it is necessary to strengthen the instruments of implementation and this Law to the present I think, but also to this new one that is being adopted. In fact, we are witnessing that almost regular goods coming from abroad, and it is not the quality that affects buyers in these countries where the goods come from. In Zagreb, there is a very interesting case in which a customer sued the company where he bought the goods, a detergent that the quality of this product is not at the level of quality declared. And the court has complied with the request and said it is indeed so. Therefore, we have a lot of reason to believe that there is a disproportionate price quality and what is declared in Croatia precisely at the level of import goods. It is precisely the task of this law to prevent it. The question now arises where to prevent and where to exercise consumer protection control. Is it at the border, by applying regulations or by obtaining certification marks? It's necessary to accomplish it everywhere. I would briefly refer to a problem that arises in Article 28 which speaks about the obligation of a trader who requires or conditions the purchase of a product or the provision of services with advance or the way it will reflect on tourist agencies. In fact, if this request is literally interpreted, it will collect tourist services for organised tourist traffic, which is of course not good. And another reason for this sharing, we think that since Croatian legal legislation did not have such a way of time-use of capacity or an object in its legal system, it would be better to go with a special law on this sharing or time-use. For the reason that this is truly particularly addressed in Western European legislation and this is a very sensitive material and one newspaper on the real estate market, as well as a newspaper on the market for services that participates in the world today with more than 15% to 20%. It is therefore a newspaper that will reach a very serious level in Croatia when we will not be able to follow it legally again. Thus, sharing should also, in accordance with the European Union directives, return as a separate legal instrument and try not to solve it in the future, and already there are certain forms of use by sharing and in Croatian practice. As a result, the HSS Club is proposed to see, clarify and clarify the layout of this newspaper, which is good, which has been kind of already updated on the Croatian market in order to achieve a fundamental goal, which is to protect all consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82128	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We continue the session at 15.00 hours with the point Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82129	Proposal for a consumer protection law. First reading. I give the vote the following conclusion: The proposal for a consumer protection law is proposed. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 81 votes for, 2 abstentions and 4 against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82130	We'll continue with the afternoon session. 4. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Literature, second reading, P.Z. No. 518 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 115 to 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? The Minister of Justice, Mrs. Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82131	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Here, here is the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Literature. The Law on Public Literature entered into force in 1993 and the Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Registration 1994. In the application of the Public Note Act, some of its provisions have been shown to enable different and unequal treatment in the assembly of similar public documents and in the performance of other public records and, as well, over a period of more than ten years, there has been a difference in economic opportunities, economic development and demographic development. Therefore, this final proposal, which accepted all the comments made and valorised in the first reading debate and the final proposal, seeks to lay down criteria for the determination of the number of public notebooks and the headquarters of public-book offices because, as I have said since the adoption of the law of '94. the years and the beginning of this service of circumstances have changed significantly in relation to the situation and today. There has been an economic development, of legal traffic reinforced in certain parts of the country of Croatia, and public notaries are given power to act in undeniable deserts by the law of succession, and since January 2006, public notebooks have been bringing and resolving the exercise on the basis of a credible document. All of this suggests that the scope of public notebooks' affairs was increased and it was necessary to establish criteria and re-examine the current number of public notebooks, their headquarters all with a view to making it easier and faster for citizens to address their needs in the area of work of this service. It was also necessary to regulate and comply with the Constitution of conditions for the appointment of public notaries for the reasons that so far they had had the advantage of the appointment of public notaries of public-books to other candidates and such a provision was contrary to the provisions of Articles 14 and 54. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guaranteeing that a job and a duty is available to everyone under equal conditions. It also determines or restricts the number of public-markers who have not been restricted so far. In certain public-book offices, it was observed that two and more public-bookers were employed and thus there was the creation of large public-book offices in which the citizen had actually lost contact with the public notary because the public notary had transferred his affairs to the neighbour and the law had the urgency that the public notary would be the bearer of the function of the public-book service because it was he who was the public trust person and could not pass it on to another person. It is therefore proposed that no more than two public-bookers can be employed in the public-book office. This final proposal also introduces a category of public-book consultants to public-book offices. These are graduate lawyers with a passed judicial exam whose status has not been regulated in public-book offices so far. This determines their powers, their legal position in the public-book office. Also, given that the Ministry of Justice has had the power to exercise control over the work of public notaries, then in this final text of amendments and additions, it is possible for the Ministry of Justice to also initiate disciplinary proceedings against the public notary, which has not been so arranged so far. It is also proposed that the disciplinary council and the competent disciplinary prosecutor are obliged to launch disciplinary procedures, taken actions to inform the Ministry of Justice. These amendments are also complemented by provisions relating to the conduct of a public notary when drawing up public-book documents, verification of signatures, presence of witnesses of acts as well as the harmonisation of the provisions of this law with the legal terms of the Executive Act, the Law on Inheritance, the Family Law and other legal texts. Compared to the proposal, the first proposal in the first reading accepted a proposal from the public debate to lay down more precisely the criteria for establishing the headquarters of public notebooks as well as the number of public notebooks. By supplementing the proposal for this law, it was given the power of the Ministry of Justice, or the Minister, to increase or reduce the number of public-recorded sites in the official field of the public notary. In the final proposal, this was deleted and the rule of law laid down a criterion of 15 thousand inhabitants, i.e. in the case that 200 registered legal entities or crafts exist in the area of the municipal court. Article 3 of the proposal has also been amended, setting out that public notaries have the power to draw up private documents to represent parties before the court. This has been deleted and has returned to the solution so far that they can represent extremely indisputable matters before courts and other public bodies if it is in direct connection with the correctness which the notary draws up. It was also accepted to remain with the legislation so far, which prescribed that it should have five years of working experience and passed the appointment exam for the public notary. The provisions of the final proposal with the regulations relating to stamps and stamps have also been harmonised and an additional item in Article 77 has also been left out, which prescribed that a legal representative or promissory may deposit the signature with the public notary for reasons that it was not intended to allow a situation in which individual notebooks would be permanently linked to individual legal entities primarily to banks. The proposal also deletes the first proposal in the first reading a provision by which a public notary could request an appropriate advance for a public record store and, in the other part, some articles have been arranged in a nomotechnical sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82132	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? The Justice Committee, Mr. Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Assistant Minister. At the 51st session held on 23 January 2007, the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee discussed the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative referred to the differences between the solutions proposed in the final proposal for a law compared to the previous ones set out in the draft law itself. A proposal by the Committee on Justice has been adopted setting out more precisely the criteria for determining the seat and number of public notebooks. The proposal was also adopted to remain in the case of conditions for the appointment of public notebooks in the case of an existing solution to the required years of work experience. The possibility of depositing the signature of legal representative with a public notary as well as the possibility of taking advances has been left out. In the debate, members of the Committee supported most of the votes proposed amendments and additions to the Law. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice, with 7 votes in favour and one abstention, proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82134	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82135	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club also supported this Law in its first reading, given that the law in the second reading accepted certain observations and here, which were presented in the debate and certain observations of our committees, we believe that it is even better, that it is even more quality than it was in the first reading so that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports it. Public notebooks serve as independent and independent holders of and public trust services. Public notebooks do indeed many, many jobs. Since the verification of signatures on documents, from the legalization of signatures on documents, the assembly of various documents. We have now given them the powers of law in the executive procedure to adopt on the basis of credible documents on the solution to the performance. We also gave them powers in undeniable desert procedures to resolve so that indeed although it is relatively whether looking at a little more than 10 years of the institute that exists in our legal system, an institute that does not therefore have some large, large number of years behind it but is doing a whole series of very important jobs. So there's no citizen who hasn't met up with a particular job he had to be in a public record office for. What is important to me is that the public records throughout this period of work have significantly increased and contributed to legal certainty, one business security, because you know, unfortunately, these are used mostly by banks and citizens a little less. And for that reason, it probably does something, it also does the tariff on their services, because of the cost of these services, but what is particularly important is the protection in business, the protection in business traffic. And banks really use it and don't go into any credit relations without being insured and not just classic publishing contracts or transfer of ownership for insurance purposes, so-called. the establishment of fiduciary ownership rather than particularly significant are those contracts in which the notaries confirm the enforcement of certain, certain documents. This enforcement is very important in legal traffic because if there is a failure to fulfil certain obligations under the contract where the parties, where the parties have agreed that it has the power of the executive documents then we are actually coming to a shortening of the whole procedure, we are avoiding the trial of the first degree and the proceedings by appeal. So let's go directly to the executive procedure. This can be saved under today's conditions and four and five and six years of trial. So, based on the contract itself, it goes into effect. And on the other hand, when we look at it, we think it's this, that it's one big liquid that the notebooks brought into our legal system and we don't need to look at it exclusively through high tariffs like counterpart Cain said in the first reading that they're the most skin-stealing of our citizens. I think we need to look a little bit through that prism of legal certainty that they bring. If we look at what is changed by this law and what is most important in this law when it is accepted as we hope it will be and when it comes into force, it will be that public notebooks, public record offices, will be more than it has so far. So one concept is leaving so that public office offices are one huge office that hires I don't know how many public record people. And de facto already, there's a slow choke in some larger offices where it's waiting and order, where it has to be ordered. This concept that the public record office can employ up to two public notary neighbours and one consultant will actually create a network of smaller, more efficient offices that will be far more accessible to citizens and legal persons to me in a disposition where it will be much easier to achieve its own, its demands. Also, what is very important is that there are much clearer criteria for determining where public service offices will be. This is one big shift compared to the first reading. So far we have really been when it was established by that first rule when it was determined how many public records offices there were, and we know for ourselves what the Republic of Croatia was in at the time, and the state of war. The economy was as it was and de facto were determined more or less by some statistical criteria on 20,000 people in the area of a particular court and, of course, such a system of determination of the notary offices had worn out and that it had to be adapted to some new conditions. This law does just that because clear criteria are prescribed. That limit of 20,000 people goes down to 15 grand. It is also possible to establish an additional criterion in this area to set up more notary offices where there is a Trade Court, where the inflow of the case is higher in inheritance. It means where we have two hundred economic operators either means companies, or craftsmen. It is also a very important newspaper and what is also important, and it is I think it is quite right that the ministry introduces this law and one authority that the Ministry of Justice is authorized to initiate and disciplinary proceedings against those notaries where certain irregularities are identified. It wasn't like that until today. In view of the ministry's supervision of the work of public notebooks, it is indeed justified that public notebooks, that the ministry can also launch the procedure itself if such conditions are met. So, the assessment of our law, the assessment of this law is that it's good. Its goal is to actually make the conditions for opening an office even more transparent, to get more efficient, smaller offices afterwards, and in fact to be more accessible to both citizens and legal persons and to achieve greater security of citizens in legal traffic. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82136	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82137	Here's a little correction not to spoil this whole debate, so maybe here I would just draw attention to the fact that under the current law, the Minister of Justice is authorized to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the public notary. Although it is also true that now, in a more flexible way, it is given to the minister in office, as well as to power.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82138	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82139	Dear Mr. Vice President, I will, in fact, clarify the quote of my colleague, Bosnjakovic. According to the standards set by the law, we will need new 980 public notebooks. So 980 if the criteria were held by the number of inhabitants, or the number of subjects. Now you have about 194,000 subjects, population numbers. So Croatia exists under the law that would be 980 new public notebooks. The question is, can we have it?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82140	Thank you. It's the Institute of Reckoning. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82141	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary with her associate, colleagues and colleagues. These amendments and additions, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Public Literature, are what we find at a time when, for 12 years now, the Law on Public Literature has been in place with a little bit of a slight amendment, practically when, after 1945, the Institute of Public Notary has been re-established in our territory in Croatia, i.e. the Institute of Public Notary, i.e. Public records. It was one big newspaper, although not without legal experience, or history in this area. Therefore, in its distant history, Croatia has great experience with this institute, which is generally accepted by the Institute both in Europe and in the whole world. I must immediately mention at a time when public records were established that it was practically a time of judicial failure, the neglect of the judiciary. But that's where this institute was built on solid foundations. Since public records have been established and formed from the very least I would dare say I think that I share the opinion of everyone as well as the professions of the general public, and surely here and yours, given that it is filled by over 90% of the judicial staff and the highest quality of the judicial staff with a large number of years of experience that this is the case. Therefore, there is no dilemma and then the ministers said let us then establish at least one service that will be on firm feet given the unfavourable situation that has now evolved as it happened in the 1990s with the judiciary and which is why here and today we have problems which were both past authorities and these authorities, and probably the next. So, even if there is no political one relationship with this problem, this problem will not be solved without the intention of anyone being popular because there are serious procedures where, of course, when they are cut, they cause exactly the anger of those, and the approval that is expected and all the support is then the most common failure, or we are not getting enough of it. What to say about new activities and new tasks that are in view of the existing provisions that allow public records, individual notaries to be Commissioners of the Court. It is a norm that, unfortunately, until 2002, was not used at all, and so much would be needed as an aid to the judiciary especially in those cases that are not a trial in the narrow sense of words where there are internationals on their own European recommendations and our judiciary. Many transition countries have also used this to relieve the judiciary of the so-called so-called justice. Not court cases. So we took advantage of that possibility, an existing legal opportunity to transfer a whole series of such cases to public records. Here, so the public notebooks originally got the power to deploy undisputed property. And the distribution of undeniable property is not a trial. We remember how much such cases also burdened the judiciary and how many people in these urgent and difficult moments, so after losing the nearest person couldn't solve this material side either. Because death, unfortunately, and these emotional situations also produce material consequences. There was, therefore, no rare case for the debate on the legacy of uncontested assets and pension insurance rights to wait several years. These were dramatic situations for those who predated, who were also entitled to legal inheritance. Does anyone in the last few years even hear as a problem of the legacy. There's no public speaking of it anymore. That's an absolute problem. He's been arrested by the fact that such procedures are being conducted by public records. I'll just say right here on the way that often there's a call to tariffs, public note tariffs, to the value of their score. I must say, on two occasions, he was drastically reduced. But we need to keep talking about both quality and speed of service. Whoever gives fast doubles. Thus, by handling such a situation, they were absolutely able as experienced judges to carry out such indisputable things as they were left behind, and given the vast number of backlogs burdening the judiciary such as the executions. We're talking today about this huge number of cases, but in the analysis and structure of these backlogs, and even the upcoming cases in the courts, we see what kind of structure it is that the vast majority were just these ultimate things. And that is why the 2003 executive law, which is voluntary and trustful, is aimed at addressing such cases as quickly as possible in order to satisfy the interests and needs of the parties above all, and then to transfer the burdens of the judiciary to the courts. It is sad and incomprehensible that we were lost after that for a year and a half when such a law was suspended. Now it's abandoned and I'm glad it's also with the ruling abandoned thinking that the notebooks aren't trained to run the business. But we lost a year and a half. I'm telling you that we continued to act on this novel, and even go more revolutionaryly about discharging the judiciary, and the burdens of public records to make these lags or that this thing would already be at the end. But usually good things have the only fault of being brought in late. Amendments to the Implementing Law also later allowed public notaries to carry out this part of the work. However, why not to the necessary extent that we are talking about yesterday, on ours, to the question of one of our MPs has also shown the prime minister that he will reconsider the situation in which, which will not be nearly absurd as it is now, the conduct is rapid towards citizens when they are debtors, and when it is the same, most often occurs as a believer of states, or even more often banks, other financial institutions as powers deprived of any procedure, and even the executive procedure in the case of the institution of fiduciation, and this is an unfair institute. And I am asking this occasion that exactly the objective of affirming the constitutional principle of Croatia as a social state such an institute is abolished, it is unfair. True, it leads to speed. But then why not make it equivalent for that citizen to have a claim against another citizen or other institutions on his own towards the state not to have to engage in litigation, or in a painful executive procedure. Because with the last changes and for him no matter how fast he's done she's still slow and inefficient when he, this citizen, is looking for something. And why am I saying that exactly when we discuss amendments to the Law on Public Literature? Because all of this can be done in public notebooks. Well, then if we've already given that benefit to corporations, we can at least even a simple citizen into their norms. Well, then let his request, if he is indisputable, be subject to a court procedure, but right through public records. With regard to many of the solutions found in this law, they are more technical and uncomplicated and some of the misunderstandings that burdened public notebooks in their work on how to handle certain situations is certain that this legal proposal solves the situation. However, the two biggest innovations and changes that will take place in this law are going to harm public records, and they go to harm also users themselves, their services, i.e. Citizens and certain companies. It is incomprehensible why the ministry is not in this, in these two crucial changes that make the situation worse, which I will now look more closely at, why it did not listen to the opinion of the Public Bookmark Chamber. Namely, what's this about? This is about the situation in Article 6 and Article 7. These are the most controversial situations. In this respect, Article 6 provides that Article 14(10) of the existing legal solution is to be abolished, i.e. that the neighbours, these are the assistants, the chief assistants of the public notary, no longer have any advantage in the appointment of the vacant or newly created public place. This explains that such a provision would be contrary to the equality of all before the Constitution. And how have we suffered a simple solution for 12 years? That's not the way it is. Because legal solutions, both in the appointment of judges and in the appointment of a state lawyer, say the trainee has the advantage in certain and advisory places, and ultimately the practice does so. After all, this is the Institute of Europe. Practically existing law is a prescribed law of European solutions. This was also discussed at international conferences of public notary chambers, both Europe and world associations. Incomprehensible why, we would be the only country among the few I do not know in Europe, other than these transition countries, would anyone have made it possible, i.e., to establish the situation that a neighbour does not have the advantage of employment, i.e. in filling a public place. Why is this important? Because we do not stimulate progress in the profession and viewing progress you can imagine the situation in which a public notary is retired, he had his notebook 15, 20 and more, that is to say, 15, 20 years, and yet this legal proposal gives him the opportunity to remain an employee. But what if he goes into retirement where there's no contractors, because if he doesn't stay in that very specific place, his safety is nothing. But his safety as an expert, we have to look at people who will be professional, and they no longer complete themselves from that already educated category as they were judges. We can see, therefore, that these younger people who complete the neighbourhoods no longer have the specific knowledge they have, as well as the judges and the training they have had, through their practice. So now there's going to be one shift of generations, and then it's logical that we have these educated people, people with specific knowledge. And as necessary as this formal education is, it is safe and valuable and necessary practice. So no one's had a problem with the expertise they're providing right now with public notebooks. Anyway, of course in principle. So to remove this possibility is, above all, to point out here, the object of rocking the profession itself, and secondly, it opens up one great possibility for appointments to be non-transparent, so what is it going to be to be a resort minister. I don't think he needs a load like that, and he doesn't need one here at public places. We cannot talk here and introduce one criterion which is more than one situation in which the number is technically spoken and the need is here when opening new public places, and then, as the main reason, the registration of legal persons is listed. Why did the promoter here disobey exactly the profession that says that the basic criterion would be the number of public records, that is the right need for a public notary, that is, the number of such services offered in a given area, that is, to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82143	Here's one more sentence, please. Here is the situation very indicative in Gospić where the public notary asked, he cannot get the job done in view of the age of the population or conduct desert debates. I therefore propose here, on behalf of the SDP Club, that the provisions of Article 7 be well considered, otherwise we have no objections to other solutions at all, although we welcome them, but this is a significant change in the situation and raises questions about the bias and appointment and opening of public places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82144	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm gonna do. I'm just gonna make one quote right. Among other things, an esteemed colleague said that in 1993, therefore the year of the Law on Public Literature entered into force, so I quote, "The year when the Croatian judiciary collapsed or the year of judicial collapse". I am correcting this allegation because it really does not correspond to the real state or the truth and it is absolutely incorrect, and I am correcting it because of other things, because exactly the problems of public records, grantshops, ownership records and everything that actually belongs directly and indirectly to the authority and the work of public records offices have actually been the problems that have been accumulated for 50 years in the social property system of each other in general that we are now not returning to history and that is the fundamental fact that in new and constitutional solutions have joined the introduction of public records and in fact the state of justice. The judiciary has many problems and had them in 1993, but that is not the year when the Croatian judiciary collapsed, fortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82146	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Bosnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82147	One little correction. counterpart Anticevic said that according to the Law on Courts, the apprentice has the advantage over others in the appointment of the judge. I thought you said gym. I don't think that's true and that this is a provision in this law that doesn't favor anyone, because by the Constitution this is a public service and by the Constitution of public service we all have equal terms. Being a neighbor, it can be a factual advantage in the overall process, but in a formal sense, it should not be an advantage to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82148	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82149	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed minister. What's Mr. Palaric doing here? What do we got later? A few months ago, a lot of comparisons were made publicly... I always get scared when I see him, because you never know what's waiting for us after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82150	Mr. Palaric, the esteemed representative Cain says he always gets scared when he sees you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82151	You never know what this country expects afterwards, especially when it's in a black suit. I'm kidding, I'm sorry. A few months ago, these public records in the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany were much compared. In some cases, in most cases, some 80% of Croatian public notebooks have higher tariffs than their colleagues in Germany, which is clearly logical to be cynical, because it is generally known that the standard of average Croatian citizen is two, three or five times higher than in Germany. In this law, some things change, but they don't change tariffs, they're just a holy letter. Clearly someone will say so it is settled by the tariff law, I agree now not to list all these tariffs in the Regulation on the provisional public note tariffs cleared text, etc. Since when, from 90 etc. A year. The simplest thing for me is what is the problem, which is increasingly being transferred to the notebooks, which means that they are being sent down and more money, so let's say in this Article 157, is now judging whether any other authority can trust the public notary and the list and sealing of the property of the bankruptcy and the assessment of public sales, auctions, movable things, property in extra-parquent proceedings, in particular voluntary sales, as well as the implementation of the discussion on the distribution of the sale price in the executive procedure, the collection of accounts by custodians or managers, all tasks which can be clearly subject to specific regulations, etc., etc. It is freely said that the simplest court proceedings are suddenly entrusted to the notebooks in this country, and that through that logic, the courts are relieved. However, citizens are also not relieved. They get the tariffs we have, and I said they're 70, 80% higher than they are in Germany, they're literally corrupting. A lawyer rarely but maybe someone, my client, and I'm sorry. I said maybe if he was forced to, but the notebook won't forgive you anything. Pay up and here's the normal act you're looking for. It is obvious that the notary lobby in this country has fought for what is undeniable. For what's lucrative and like I said, they don't forgive. Take a look at these performances regarding Croatian broadcasting, payments for Croatian waters, I don't know, health insurance, etc. I don't really know if this law does not carry the P.Z.E., we are asked by the European Union, but let us also ask ourselves how high in this country can be tariffs higher than the personal standard of Croatian citizens, higher average salaries, higher average pensions, etc. We all agree that notebooks are necessary, but I mean this, with those tariffs obviously isn't right. This Regulation shall enter The Law on Public Notes literally states that within 3 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Justice will bring amendments and additions to the public notices and regulations in the official seats of public notebooks. Let's just make it fair. It is said that a stamp under quotes, one hoped by some competent authorities or public notebooks, since in Zagreb can carry 100,000 euros. I agree that this article 7 is absolutely crucial. I quote: "For the area of the municipal court in which the seat and seat of the Commercial Court is located, with the criterion of paragraph 2 of this article, another public place is confirmed, i.e. this number of 20,000 inhabitants is now replaced by the words "15 thousand inhabitants". We have a situation that the number of notebooks will increase but what is paradoxical, which is against every logic, that competition will clearly not reduce the price. It's probably one unique case, but that's how it works. I personally believe that tariffs were to be reduced first, and then this Law was to be written. As far as article 6 is concerned, Ms. Anticevic-Marinovic spoke earlier. I agree that here we really should have a certain advantage, but we can do it another time. So once again, it was necessary to reduce tariffs first, and then write down the provisions of this Law. There, just enough to keep a little liveliness, don't mind. All other provisions are relatively logical, but I think once again that what is not logical, these are tariffs that the Republic of Croatia can make twice as much, even triple as those in the Federal Republic of Germany.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82152	Thank you. Continuing on behalf of the club, distinguished representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82153	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I must admit that I have also received some remarks from the profession itself, from public notaries who, we must say, have participated in making and improving this text of the final proposal, but some of the important things they consider not to have entered this Final Proposal of the Law. And that's why we will, on behalf of the IDS Club, submit amendments to that subject. One of the important things they consider to be the creation of this new proposal for a particular monopoly because the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Literature also describes the differences between the solutions proposed in relation to the solutions set out in the Bill's proposal and the reasons why the differences occurred. However, the agreement between the ministry and public notaries accepted the observation that certain public notes are linked to companies, banks and so on creating a monopoly relationship. It is therefore found in Article 40 of the Treaty on the The final proposal left out the possibility of depositing the signature of a legal representative with a particular public notary. Namely, the deposited signature with the public notary obliged citizens to just come to a certain public record office to perform a public note shop. Therefore, the profession in this case says that opinions that such a proposal for the deposit of signatures regulated the question of depositing signatures as the necessary needs of certain persons, while at the same time leaving no room for the practice so far which, in a sense, could represent a certain monopoly relationship of certain public notaries with certain legal entities. If the deposit of the signature of certain persons is carried out in the Chamber as proposed, then all public notebooks are authorised to verify the signatures of those persons by means of their signature deposited in the Chamber, and then all objections about the possible monopolistic positions of certain public notebooks would be excluded. This would also simplify the provision of certain public records services to those persons who, because of their position, character of work and other legitimate reasons, are not able to come personally to a particular public record office. What would that mean? That persons authorised to represent state bodies, public undertakings and other public institutions, banks and other bodies of organisations where there is a necessary need for their signature to be verified without their simultaneous presence with the public notary on the occasion of their signatures can deposit their signature with the chamber. These persons shall deposit their signature before the President of the Chamber or the person authorised by him. The deposit of the signature shall be made up of a record of which the copy of the Chamber shall, without delay, be supplied to all public notaries. The chamber also runs a book for depositing signatures. In addition, persons authorised to represent legal persons not listed in paragraph 8 of this Article may deposit their signature with any public notary. The deposit of the signature of the public notebook shall be made up of a record. On the basis of the deposited signature of those persons, the public notary shall be authorised to certify their signature without their simultaneous presence in the public notary on the occasion of the verification of their signature. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So this could prevent the monopoly of certain public notebooks that had to be used to verify signatures for people from state, public companies, banks and the like. Furthermore, Article 16 of the Law regulated the issue of setting public places at the time of the introduction of the public record service itself and, of course, as exclusive criteria, the number of inhabitants was implemented. However, according to the number of public records provided in 2005, there were some 3 million and 109 thousand for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. The data was taken from the explanation of the final draft law and therefore, at this time, 300 public records offices should be established for Croatia and would, of course, create the same conditions for further increases in public places and without of course changing the law, and in the event of an increase in the number of public records services. But as time runs out, we will continue to submit amendments to this Final Proposal of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82154	Thank you. On behalf of the club HSP, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82155	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Madam Minister. Well, first of all, I have to say on behalf of the Croatian party club that public notation is more than a lucrative job in Croatia today. We have now heard the data that about 3 million services have been provided last year by the public notebooks and it was not on the Monday below 100 kuna safely, and there were far greater ones, so you are now easy to calculate how much revenue has been made there, and especially now that the notebooks have taken over the issue of the performance and everything else, we know how many tasks we have in Croatia, especially when it applies to Croatian citizens and to the non-payment of old wars from God knows what year and everything else, and therefore you can see that this is a lucrative job and, in that sense, I certainly support Mr Caine for what we have said in our first reading that we really need to seriously consider protecting Croatian citizens from harassers in view of the high tariffs provided by these public records services as it is also related to the legal tariffs for the provision of lawyers, providing legal services. Therefore, if we want to take care of Croatian citizens, not just public not only because they have enough space. Let us also be aware of the real us who are lawyers, who have also passed a judicial exam and we know what we do, let's say public notebooks, these are not complex jobs, mainly these parts and about desert debates and these parts around the performance, it's very simple, it's a public notary and it doesn't see or can do that and pure reference. So let's not fetish it now, to create that it's some complicated legal business. There are no legal deals, but at the end of the day, when you come to the public notebook's office, you'll have to wait for what kind of work they're doing with everything they've been given in power. Every good day costs you, at the end of every one of those officers you told, and it's a really interesting situation that we have these tariffs far more than we do in one Germany. That is enough to say that first of all, attention should be paid and that question resolved. I said the one that I... the reference to Mr Bošnjakovic when he spoke if these new criteria are taken into account in Article 7 will mean approximately what, how many entities he has, and at this point, 194 thousand active entities are now somewhere, so this also applies to companies, banks, branches, insurance companies, associations, foundations and other legal entities, that is, according to the register, all of them are established. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means approximately 900 and that population criterion to 15 thousand, to about 980 new public notes, new public notebooks and here should be a little bit and careful what happens now, we know what the situation is like in the judiciary, we need to be objective and realistic after a public court pass and there will still be an additional possibility of opening new ones and somewhere now 260 as far as I know public notebooks. Therefore, there is a possibility that a new drain will occur from the judicial and other personnel that they will be transferred to the public notebooks and therefore should also take account of it, and we know the situation in the judiciary itself. Therefore, this is relatively quite correctly implemented are these legal amendments and complemented by the law itself except this part, a good thing that is not subject to direct this Law regarding tariffs themselves. I, or my club, also supports this section related to Article 6 and we believe that no one can have it because it works somewhere for the credentials, that they must have the advantage when a tender for a public notary is announced. Why would he have the advantage? It would be the same variant if the election law found that one who failed to enter the list parliament would have the advantage in the next election. So a similar situation or the same situation, like 4 or 5 on the list, they entered 4, he 5 didn't, and now in the next election, he's going to have an advantage. I think if the Constitution says they all have the same right, then they have the same right. Normally, it's going to be about where the man was working, what he was doing. Therefore, I do not accept the principle of the SDP club's position in that part. But when it was already changing and supplementing, we talked about it on the Legislative Committee, see I don't know, did you do anything after that? This refers to some illogicalities. You've changed, say, Article 19 of the applicable law. This refers to article 10, such as that situation, has a lot of illogical reasons, reasons for stopping the service. And it really does, it says that the reason for stopping the service is if point 5, that's point 1 of point 5. It says, if it doesn't start with the work that the Chamber has set up for the beginning of its work without a valid reason. So how's he gonna stop when he doesn't even start working? So there's this illogicality that, when you've already changed article 19, where you've misrepresented the word with criminality, means responsibility for a crime, then at least you should've seen that part. Something can't stop someone if it hasn't started. And then, in particular, this part is tied up when, on the basis of the decision of the disciplinary body, it loses the right to perform the service, when it is seen that resolution also Article 21 that you change or do not change, there are so many illogical and ridiculous situations until the end. So there's even one situation where it's said that the public notary himself will submit a proposal to the disciplinary body to resolve it or to say that it is not capable or incompetent. So the future of such or similar changes should be looked after. Normally, there won't be any public notes showing you that it will need to change, but it's purely legalized because there are really still provisions but there's no point anymore, because they're not the subject of changes in this law, changes and additions. But let's say this about Article 10, as well as Articles 21 and 34. So there are these illogicalities that should actually be looked after and brought to the attention of the future. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82156	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! So as Ms. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, as it is a second reading, we will not talk in general about the problem of public notebooks and public notaries, but we will try to keep to the concrete remarks and reasoning of these remarks. We regret that on the committees we were convinced that the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements reached agreement with the Public-Booking Chamber, when we received comments, then we saw that there was actually no agreement in those very important things. Therefore, we have several objections and we will explain these remarks and, first of all, several times today and this refers to Article 6(2) of the final proposal for a law which proposes to delete paragraph 10 of Article 14. The public notation law, which explains that it is contrary to the constitutional principles of the declared provisions of Articles 14 and 54. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is our proposal not to delete this provision from the law, and in this respect we support amendments proposed by counterpart Cacia and also all amendments that will obviously be submitted after the announcements of the representatives' clubs and we explain our position to the next. Contrary to the legislator, we believe that erasure is the 10th paragraph in Article 14. The public notation law is directly contrary to the generally accepted principles applicable in all areas where elections or appointments are held and when the election is conducted between several candidates, whether it is a choice for the conduct of an appropriate duty in the public service, whether in other cases of employment, or in the case of enrolment of educational institutions and the like. In fact, the issue of advantages in choice and appointment, employment and the like has been governed by the Law on Courts where the choice gives priority to judicial advisers over other candidates. The Law on State Attorney's Office where the election of deputy state attorneys gives priority to state attorneys, the Law on the Rights of Croatian lawyers from the Homeland War where lawyers are given priority in employment in certain public legal bodies and companies and institutions in which the state of Croatia and units of local and regional (regional) self-government have majority stakes and a number of other situations where candidates are privileged on all other required elements. Such regulations have never questioned the constitutional inequality of all before the Constitution and the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The public notation law cannot be contrary to the provisions of Articles 14 and 54. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, to which the legislator is called in all his reasons for eradicating it. On the contrary. We believe that by erasing paragraph 10 of Article 14 and realistically creating assumptions that the appointment of a public notary is done without specific objectiveization at will and without any consequence of who decides. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on public notebooks would only legalize the arbitration of individuals, which is certainly not the meaning of the law. It should certainly be taken into account also the fact that this is a matter of advantage in the election of a public notary in a similar way, as well as in the laws of our close European countries, which have served us as a role model in the adoption of the Law on Public Literature. Second, Article 7 of the final draft law relating to the amendment of Article 16 of the proposed amendment of the criteria for determining the number of public notes for the area of a particular municipal court. We have an amendment here, and we believe that this Article 7 should read, that public notebooks in the Republic of Croatia are determined, that public notebooks in the Republic of Croatia are determined by the Ministry on the basis of the attached opinion of the Chamber, the courts in the Republic of Croatia and the competent county body, taking into account the development of economic and legal traffic and the particular needs for public-book services in a particular public-book area. Article 2 for the area of a court law in every 15 thousand inhabitants will be determined by a public-book place if, according to the data established by the ministry in the previous year, at least 10 thousand public-book services are provided in that area. Why do we think that? The relevant provision of Article 16 of the Law regulated the issue of the establishment of public-booking sites at the time of the introduction of public-booking services into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, taking the primary number of inhabitants of a given area, which criteria that at the beginning of the creation of a public-booking service, it is no longer appropriate to exclude the criterion today that due to the significantly unequal economic situation of a given area and due to significantly weaker legal traffic in a given area. Regardless of all the initial shortcomings due to the objective inability to look at possible negative consequences for certain public-book sites in certain areas, it is now justified to indicate the need to amend this article in view of a more equidistant fill and increase of public-book sites. This also prevents the possibility of, without objective criteria and insufficiently explored indicators and perhaps, with best intentions, endangering the survival of the service of existing public notebooks in certain public-book areas. These changes would provide citizens in all public-book areas with the same number of public-book offices in which they could receive the requested public-book service on about equal terms and in time. Certainly, it should be borne in mind and the fact that many of the public-book sites in the Republic of Croatia were established after 12 years of service remained unfulfilled and about fifty. The only reason is that due to a limited number of services, it could simply not be financed by the revenue from the provision of public-booking services, but how in these areas there are certain needs for citizens and legal entities to use these services, even if a very small and limited number then the possibility of providing them must also be foreseen in these areas. Where Article 7 of the final proposal for a law would drop the provision of the proposed paragraph 4 which complements the criteria for the determination of the required number of public notebooks according to the number of legal entities and other persons carrying out the registered activity, it must be taken into account that the number of inhabitants themselves as an exclusive criterion for the determination of public-books of certain areas leads to a significantly different material position than others. As an example here, we refer to the public-book area, the area of the Municipal Court in Sinj, where two public notebooks have been appointed for an area of 55,000 inhabitants, who have successfully performed all the required public-book services themselves for all twelve years and at an annual level both together provide just as many services corresponding to the average number of public-book services in one area in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The third observation concerns Article 35 of the final proposal supplementing and amending the relevant provisions of Article 68, which addresses the issue of the participation of interpreters in the assembly of public-book acts. Our proposal is that Article 35 of the final proposal of the law, which states: "Article 68 of the first word: "in addition to the witness of the act", deletes the words "and sworn" and replaces them with the words "permanent." Why? This proposal, in our opinion, should certainly be accepted in order to remove the dualism of the rules, as the final draft of the law regulates the same situation in two completely different ways. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Public Note Act shall in itself exclude the need to add words in paragraph 1 of Article 68 and the public notary or a member shall not, at the same time, be permanent court interpreters. Without accepting this counter-proposal, the public notaries will constantly doubt whether they can draw up a public-book act without the participation of a permanent court interpreter if they rule the language of the participants or, at the same time, if they are not permanent court interpreters, they will have to call on the interpreter of course. In such a case, to possible case-laws from interpretations of such legal norms to parties and public notaries may result in immeasurable damages. Furthermore, we support here today already made remarks concerning the deposit of signatures and therefore give the following explanation. We believe that such a proposal to deposit signatures would regulate the question of depositing signatures as the necessary needs of certain persons while at the same time leaving no room for the practice so far which, in a sense, could represent a certain monopolies relationship between individual public notebooks with certain legal entities such as banks and other economic operators as well as representatives of authorities at all levels. If the depositation of the signatures of certain signatures is carried out in the chamber, then all public notebooks are authorised to verify the signatures of those persons, and then all objections to the possible monopolistic positions of individual public notebooks would be excluded. This would also simplify the provision of certain public-booking services to those persons who, because of their position, character of business and other legitimate reasons, are not able to come personally to a particular public-book office. So, following the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Literature, which is before us, we have pointed out our concrete observations, depending on what will be accepted from the proposed amendments will ultimately depend on the decision of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party whether this proposal will support or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82158	Thank you. The word has on behalf of the HNS Club the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82159	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This law that we have on the agenda is a law that certainly has a good intention, which is to bring public notebooks closer to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because it is obvious that after 13 years of age, something needs to be changed. Some public notebooks are very good. Some have become enormously rich in these 13 years, and all of this has gone to the heart of the people who worked with them because they were not properly paid, and especially more important than that to the expense of good service to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is of course the purpose of the existence of public notebooks. But why did it take us 13 years to figure that out? It was clear 10 years ago that the network of public notebooks set up at the time of the war, at a time when a third of the territory of the Republic of Croatia was occupied, when they could see their income. That their schedule wasn't hit well. That was very easy to see back then. Why did it take us 13 years or 10 years to change this law? Well, because there's obviously a prominent interest in public notebooks to keep the condition as it is. The ones who make a lot of money. So these public record elites who were obviously strong enough to influence the Ministry of Justice all those 10 years to keep things the way they are. Of course, it doesn't serve honor the Ministry of Justice no matter who's been running it for the past 10 years, who's been in charge of it, but it also speaks of how things work in this country. That certain stakeholders may contradict the general interests of the state and the citizens, contrary to the interests of their counterparts who might be their competitors. Both live well, earn good money so that I can usurp a position. And this is an example of an administrative monopoly that has been supported by the authorities for the past 13 years. And that's something that's hard to argue about. It would be good if we here had indicators that are large, enormously large, mega public record offices? How many neighbors work there since they have not been limited so far and how many non-limited trainees. What's their income, so let's see what actually happened here? But like a series of our laws or most of our laws, some analytical data that might tell us something about it, so that we can bring some other better solutions to such indicators here, there is no such thing as this law. And as much as on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, support the fundamental intensity should be asked a series of questions. We do not know by the basis of this Law how many public-markers there are in Croatia this time. They are also de facto, according to all their powers, public notebooks except, of course, that they earn so much money and how many public notary practitioners or advisors there are, because so far he has not been, there was an institute counselor. And whether when applied all these criteria listed here, all these three criteria, 15 thousand inhabitants, not 20, will be the seat of the Municipal Court and the headquarters of the Commercial Court and 200 registered legal persons, whether the number of real people, the person who will work in these new public records offices, will be greater or smaller than that today. The answer to that question cannot be found based on the data presented to us. And that's the point of what you should do. In my opinion, we, of course, could come peacefully to the average of the countries of Europe, and as the data shows, these are the only analytical data that are comparatively available in this law and its reasoning, the Republic of Croatia has one public office of 18 thousand, five hundred inhabitants, while the average of the most countries of the European Union or Europe is about half of it. So somewhere around 9,000. What does that mean? This means that we could have another 259, of course it's a rough bill, public record offices, and that means another 1,000 employees in these public records offices, people who would find their jobs and everybody would live well, do their job honestly, and citizens would have a much better service. Based on what's listed here, we don't know what the final situation will be. The club of representatives of HSS, or colleagues of Cacia, has submitted an amendment. That amendment by reason, I can't get into it, of course, because we don't have an indicator, nor does he say how he got to those indicators? However, he says in his explanation of the amendments that such a designation could also question the survival of public service in the Republic of Croatia because it cites two public records, or with 2 public notaries it shows, even though it does not state the data itself, it may also represent some partial interest, that there will be difficulties or perhaps even the inability of the work of these public records offices in the town of Sinj and in the city of Omis. However, since we do not have the Justice Department's data, we cannot know whether or not the data of this harsh, difficult assessment by a colleague, Cacia, which is not to say, in some areas that, rather than public record practice, the service will be compromised throughout the country. We can't know that because we don't have analytical information from the Department of Justice and I don't know what to do in such a situation. If, in any way, the Minister considers that these evaluations of fellow Chachia are justified, then this law should be withdrawn. If it is not really based on some information that is not presented to us, and I repeat why it should not be presented to the Croatian Assembly, it is certain that there will be a better network, an increase in the number of public notebooks, an increase in the number of employees in these public records offices, equalisation with the average of Europe, so somewhere around 9,000 inhabitants on one public notary and the basis of all of this better service to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We can't know that. In that sense, this may be a touch in the blank, and after some time we will realize that what we did is worse than what we wanted, what we had no matter how good our intentions were and no matter how clear it is that something in this sense should change. Unfortunately, there is no important question of the answer here, and I would, of course, like it if we don't already have analytical data on the basis of the law, that this analysis, even though in the strict form of the minister presents to the Croatian Parliament, to hear on the basis of which data this is done and what will be the resultant, which is not difficult to calculate. It's not 20,000 people, it's 15, it's not only the Municipal Court, it's the Commercial Court, it's 200 legal persons. So it's very simple to calculate. The Ministry of Justice should be able to do so, so I would like Ms. Lovrin to try to present what will be the consequence of the adoption of this law without, of course, repeating again the fundamental intensity that after 14 years, the number of public notebooks and public notebooks in the Republic of Croatia will be at least one large part of its territory, and these are large cities, and even what we call large cities under our Law on Local Self-Government, should certainly be increased. And another question that opens here. So here you limit the number of counselors to one. The number of neighbors is limited to two. That's good. It is therefore against the creation of these artificial monopolies that have not, of course, accidentally survived all these past years. It was very prominent to someone's interest that this country has favored against the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But it's also not an unusual formula in the functioning of the state administration, even if, of course, it should be avoided, fought against it. But the question remains what will happen after this, since the number of trainees here, for example, is not limited, and the trainee under this law and under the existing law can actually be the one who does most of the work. His rights as well as the rights of advisers are almost the same as the rights of a neighbor or a public notary. It is clear that if the number of trainees is not limited, and the number of counselors is that these trainees will not be able to work anymore in the public record office, so actually working in that office for a year only serves as an opportunity to pass a judicial exam and not to use acquired knowledge for further work and training in that part of the legal work. And so they can be used as a very cheap workforce, because according to what they're doing, they almost have the same powers as the neighbours and the public records themselves. Therefore, I think it would be good to limit the number of trainees. And what's worth something to you, of course, but that's not what it's supposed to be if you've started your practice in a public record office, and you can't work in it, but it's only for you to pass a judicial exam then you'll be doing something that's far, far from what you've actually learned to do. It's not the sense of professional guidance to anyone, nor does a lawyer in this country. So here are the questions that are being opened. We also support other intensities of this law such as that a disciplinary procedure can be initiated by the Ministry of Justice. That's, of course, logical. It is almost not necessary to talk about the fact that the Ministry of Justice should be informed that disciplinary proceedings are being conducted which have not only been initiated and which are their results. That's what she understands by herself. It's amazing that it wasn't in the law at all and that such a law existed for 13 years in this country. Therefore, we support these things but I repeat this fundamental observation, and it also concerns the fundamental intentions of the law, which is to increase the number of public notebooks in order to adapt their network to the real needs of the economy and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It would be good, therefore, for the Minister here to the Croatian Parliament when it is not already in the reasoning of the law, either in the first or in the second reading, to present the logic by which this model has been chosen and what will be its consequences. It would certainly be that the Club of HNS Representatives is very important because it would make it easier for us to adopt a final position on whether we will be against this law or possibly refrain from it. And, of course, it would be best to respect the fundamental intensity of the law if the law really affects it to be for that law because we fully agree with that fundamental intensity of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82160	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, the esteemed representative Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82161	Dear Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's to the first time this summer view if I'm not mistaken when that law was back in '93. The years were brought to these benches by colleagues Rados, my colleague Arlović and my smallness, at least, which seems to me to be of these present. Shexa isn't in, he's not in the assembly, but he's also a colleague of Shex's. In fact, whenever a law like this lasts 13 years, it should mean that it is a solid law if it endures one such check. But what my colleague Radosh said was actually the consequence of such a law. I know that I had a situation exactly that as a man who took part in the occasion, it doesn't matter if I'm August 5, '93. Was for or against, but we were sitting here. So that's how you took all the responsibility. Many people asked me if it was exactly the wisest model that was offered at the time. Our people as people are actually always very sensitive when someone like this, relatively when administration, administration, Parliament allows him to get rich, and apparently to be a public notary in Croatia is a very lucrative job. Let’s say fellow lawyers very often say if there really is a limit on the number of public notebooks in some cities, so that’s what my colleague Rados helped me with. I thought it was 20,000. But it seems to be something smaller, but it's somewhere around 18 and a half thousand. If that's true for public notebooks, why isn't it worth it for, say, lawyers? But obviously, then let's call the lobby conditionally, those people who passed the law on August 5, '93. In the years that they knew very well the effects that this law would cause, as well as the fact that the law had not changed for 13 years, and that it has in some way enabled them to make very good use of these effects. But things have changed and well that we have one of these draft laws on amendments and additions to that Law on Public Literature. Finally, we are ourselves witnessing a very progressive expansion of the work of the public record service, which is once again the consequence of the takeover of jurisdiction in matters of work by courts, which is regulated by the amendments and additions of the Law on Commercial Society, the Law on Inheritance, the Executive Law, the Law on Land Books with which part of the work of courts has been given jurisdiction, but the amendments to a small number of these other laws which prescribe the obligation of public certification of signatures on private documents that citizens must contribute to the exercise of their rights in administrative or other proceedings. So the reason for this trend in increasing the work of the public service is the dispensation of courts that have been mired and unresolved for years, executive procedures, abandonment procedures, etc., etc. But it is certainly clear if you are giving someone else away that they are creating some imbalance again and that this imbalance should be predicted as soon as possible. The more the existing law determines the numberus clausus public places by Article 16. In the area of a particular court in terms of the number and population, the development of the economy and legal traffic, and the need for public notebook services for several years, the need to amend that provision in order to primarily in Zagreb, but certainly also to other cities, especially large Croatian cities, such as Rijeka and Osijek, has increased the number of public places. We are witnesses, the practice teaches us that in fact for ordinary authentication in the last few years, for example. There is more than an hour waiting in the City of Zagreb. Public records were not excessive, not excessively insistent on seeking amendments to the law to increase the number of public notebooks but allowed poor notaries, especially in large cities, to increase the number of neighbours in their offices in order to make as many public records as possible and, of course, make more money. No, I say again, we don't have anything against people to make money, but I say because in all of this, there should be some measure, and I think that it's about time to get to some, especially if it is, and there's no reason why we don't trust colleagues Rados, the European Union, a number of people, who are going to waste on one notary somewhere around 9,000, and in our case there's really no reason for us to open up 200-thousands and a little more of the new public records offices, and that's really going to be one large number of people who are almost on this, that's what our law schools are really going to be able to do, in this way just to solve one of the biggest burning problems of the Republic of Croatia, and that's unemployment. And especially, I'm saying, if it's a higher education frame. As graduate lawyers with a passed judicial exam, there are now two of them in most of the public records offices in the cities mentioned above, and in some even more. Since public records are based on the provisions of the applicable law, they can carry out their own actions and also sign all documents, unlike e.g. judicial advisers who cannot do so in their work in court have become key public notaries of the public record service. The legislator shall take into account the facts when adopting the applicable law and, therefore, the provision of Article 14(10) to its members with a longer... the internship gave priority to the other candidates in selecting new public notebooks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such and similar or similar solutions have been installed in their laws by, say, other countries, Austria, Germany, France, the Czech Republic, Hungary. I've been doing a comparative analysis, so it's exactly what they say in Austria that at least 3 out of 7 years of work experience in the profession of at least 3 should be a candidate for a public notary. After passing the exam for a public notary in Germany, he said, says, very similarly in Austria, only one who has performed a three-year public traineeship and is in the traineeship service of the federal province running for the place of public notary has the advantage. In Hungary, it is prescribed that the judgment and selection of candidates for the post of working notary will be taken into account in practical knowledge with particular regard to the needs of knowledge and ability to carry out the duties of the public notary. In France, there are two training systems for a notary call, and one of them is that people working with a public notary are given a special advantage in a way that gives them the right to pass exams and which enables them to ask the competent ministry to appoint a public notary. In the Czech Republic, in Czech regulations, in the regulations of the Czech Republic they regulate... it is determined that public notaries, public notary candidates who have at least 5 years of public record practice, etc., may be contacted for the free public record office, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's how it's realized exactly the vertical that's very necessary for a good functioning of such a system. I would just like to remind you that the European Commission's report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia in November 2006 indicates that, for example, The appointment of judges does not exist this clearly requested route of trainee-species-judge, and... This report is evident that this is exactly the path that should be adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I say, just say, if Austria already likes to compare, the country with which we share and some communicative and historical past has no reason not to, it is not accepted in the Republic of Croatia. For reasons unknown to us, however, the Government and the Ministry have amended this provision as holders of the amendment and addition of this Public Note Act. We would like it to be a provision, however, that this provision actually comes back and that it is that, that this fact of an early experience and of some knowledge and practice to be incorporated into the law. The government I say this change certainly does not want to protect the public record profession but to open up the possibility of public records entering and those who do not know enough and do not have the need to experience on public records but see the possibility of saying this good profit which, against which we have absolutely nothing. But I'm saying again, there should be certain measures that really these discriminations in one, when it comes to the same job, people do the same work have dramatically different incomes. And to say a lack of knowledge and experience would be combined by hiring experienced neighbors. Since the basis of the provision of Article 14(1) of the public notary is appointed by the Minister of Justice without the obligation to respect the opinion and the proposal of the Public Bookmark Chamber, it can be assumed that the aim of such a contribution to the erasure of paragraph 10 of this Law is to be assumed. However, the consequences of adopting such an article that regulates the conditions for the appointment of new notebooks will, in our opinion, be what is not good, the decline in the quality of the work of public notaries and discrimination against neighbours, which would by no means be a good thing to say. A position such as judicial advisers in the selection of judges or advisers working in the State's Attorney's Office in the selection of deputy state attorneys would become a priority in selecting new public notaries. ... the practice of the State Judicial Council in selecting judges of the Municipal Court in Zagreb, for example. It is apparent that when the appointment of 25 judges in the last few years, more than 20 of them have been appointed from the order of the judicial advisers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a similar situation in the appointment of deputy state attorneys. And just that practice that seems to me to be good would be good to fit into this law and then that, if it would be, couple... They happened and increased that, reduced that numberus Klaus then certainly the HSLS club would vote in favour of this bill. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82162	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, counterpart Kramaric says that the people who passed the law knew what the consequences of the law would produce. That would be great, but often the laws are passed in this House, and the people who bring them do not know what the consequences will be. Because if that were the case, it wouldn't be such a bad network of public record offices where some are very burdened and very well earned, and some barely survive. And so that's the bad web that was created, and it's not the people who passed the law to make that network bad. But they knew the consequences of the law. Those who have influenced his writing and who have gained a monopoly position through this law and those who have earned enormous profits over the past ten years to the detriment of good service to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. They probably knew what the consequences of this law would be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82164	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the honourable deputy president of the House, Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82165	It's an important quote, so that's why I have to correct it. It is a question when counterpart Kramaric says there is no functional link between the other judicial authorities regarding the possibility of the promotion of professional training advisers. Our Law on Courts has made it possible for advisers to take precedence in the election of a judge under equal conditions. The second question is what is the State Judicial Council and to what extent it does or does not implement it. That's number one. Number two, it's not true that this Public Note Act hasn't been changed. It was changed in 94, and among other things, it was complemented by the Family Law, but it's something else. The third is the complete question of whether it could have been complemented by family law at all, although it is wise that it was given jurisdiction to that part of the succession.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82166	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82167	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honors Minister, Your Honor, Your Honor, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In addition to the professional reasons set out in the light of this final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Literature, we will support this final draft law for two more reasons. Because this bill is clearly suppressing or in some way preventing further enormous strengthening of certain public records offices, which is fine for us, which in some ways makes one equalization of the power of this network of public records offices in the Republic of Croatia, which I think all of our regions deserve an equally valuable service. And secondly, it is important for us that this is also a kind of new employment, and it has a high level of specific weight, thus increasing the quality of services and accessibility for citizens. It is true what counterpart Arlovic said the law was changing and changing in 1994. Whether it was enough or not, it would be best for some others to judge the citizens, whether they are satisfied with quality services or not, whether prices are too high or not. It's obvious you can always talk about it. But the intensity of the proposal is and what I would significantly single out what the proposer is proposing here and why we will support it is that so far we have 256 public records offices, or public notebooks, or 18 thousand 500 inhabitants per public notary. If we go to some Western European practice where, for example, in Germany, the ratio of 8 thousand 381 residents to one public notary or one Belgium 8 thousand 493 residents per public notary, we certainly will not get this number with these changes and additions but it will certainly be between 12 and 15 thousand inhabitants per public notary and compared to the current 18 thousand and 500 that is a significant improvement. Of course, the promoter here has set the criteria neatly. The criterion is, the basic criterion is 15 thousand inhabitants and one public record office, then the additional criteria of the municipal court seat, seat of the commercial court, etc. 200 legal persons and also under a special Regulation on the basis of these proposed criteria, the actual number of official seats of public notebooks will be established. The second proposal here is what the Minister in the introduction has said and what is worth mentioning, that it is that all the candidates for the presidents are being leveled on the ground, they are equating in the candidacy for this job, which is essentially the constitutional category, so it was time to change something like that. And the number of neighbours is also limited by one public record office to two neighbours and the intensity is, it is assumed that the intensity of the promoters is to prevent large public records offices and thus to take over the monopoly in business as well as all the consequences that from such monopoly follow what I have initially said and I think that in front of the Croatian party of pensioners, this intensity can only be welcomed. In addition, the third fact that we would in some way define or underline, that we have been followed by the current graduates with the legal exam as public notary practitioners, and the proposal goes beyond that, i.e. the final draft of the law, is to be included in the register of public records chambers and water as public notary advisors, and only one such person can be employed in each office. Therefore, the amendments also establish powers that are wider than ever before, and in some ways the powers of a public notary are narrowed down. Furthermore, what is still important to underline, the disciplinary proceedings due to irregularities, i.e. because of disciplinary misdemeanour, were carried out by the Croatian public record chamber without, or at this time, having no knowledge of, or knowledge of the competent ministry. The opposite is now proposed, i.e. informing the ministry of all these facts and generally better integration of the ministry and the public recording chamber. The temporary distance from the public notary's service so far has been a discretionary assessment of the minister, and changes allow him to decide on such an important issue not with a subjective assessment of the minister but according to the criteria for the launch of the disciplinary procedure. Other proposed amendments and additions are intended to remove certain inaccuracies, misunderstandings, etc. which so far have allowed for an unequal treatment in the assembly or issue of similar public records, these other public records. For example, the witnesses of the act, the term is aligned with the Law on Inheritance and the Law on Mandatory Relations, the conditions for the enforcement of certain soloised, confirmed public records, especially when there is a condition or time limit for this. The terms of the party, i.e. a participant that is wider than the party due to inaccuracy, were used differently and incorrectly and similarly. What I would like to make in front of the Croatian party of pensioners as a proposal, and we will give the amendment here to Article 16 because Article 16 is touched by the amendments and additions to this Act is a practical definition, i.e. the conditions of a public place, i.e. the seat of a public notebook with the next objective. So far, the public notebook has also gone to businesses, to congregations, if necessary to the hospital. So the public notebook went to the scene. I don't think it's a trend that needs to be maintained by the Croatian state. We need to enable our citizens with various physical limitations to access the public place, i.e. the headquarters of the public notebook. And then we're going to suggest that, and they're not exactly the ones who don't have the money, and I think we could arrange that their offices are accessible to all categories of citizens, so we're going to sort of propose an amendment to remove all architectural barriers, i.e. ensuring the accessibility of public places to all categories of citizens. Here, regardless of this, this amendment of ours, although I openly say that we would like to accept such a thing, by in some way changing the direction and thinking of society that we must ensure that certain services are available to everyone, which are public services. However, regardless of which, it is not a condition. We, as the Croatian Party, will be able to say in front of the Croatian pensioners that we will finally support this proposal, the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82168	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207(2), the time for the individual hearing has expired. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House, Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82169	Thank you very much. Of course I will support these amendments and additions to the law for reasons because they guarantee that the Law on Public Literature will be something better and better than it has ever been before. And in that respect, you need to get support. However, there is, of course, always the possibility that something that is proposed to be fixed and to get even greater and more quality, if I may say so. But before I move on to these individual remarks, given that the final proposal of the Law is, let me look back on one thing, it could be said a political legal question that is open and by representatives during the first reading and now on behalf of clubs. This is actually a question of public notebook tariffs and the question of the cost of services, i.e. the level of earnings of public notebooks. It should be recalled that this question does not regulate this Law. The issue shall be governed by the public note tariff adopted by the Chamber and confirmed or agreed if I remember the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, the burden of responsibility, shared responsibilities on the public record chamber and on the Ministry of Justice, whether or not it has challenged all jobs, quality, complexity, seriousness, etc., and the service provided and correctly determined the price of such services, or possibly on the basis of such political views, requests and speeches on behalf of the citizens who most use such services should, in fact, re-examine the price of these services and, in that part, come to an appropriate solution on the one hand, or perhaps even to the extent that, as is similar in some other services, public services, the question is raised that this tariff is actually passed by a special law in addition to this Public Note Act. But in any case, for the time being, it is such a solution that this Law does not resolve this issue and such one objection is practically addressed to the Ministry and to the Public Bookmark Chamber and should certainly be taken into account, because this, which advocates and clubs speak, is not the result of their own opinion, but of the knowledge they receive from citizens and legal persons who use these services. Another important question that I would like to address, in particular, at first, is Article 6. Just this one, erasing item 10. I must first say that I think that in an explanation why this article is trying to delete, for constitutional harmonisation, it was wrongly called for in Article 14 and Article 54. In general, Article 14 speaks in paragraph 2 of the equality of all before the law and applies in principle to all. Article 54 speaks of the exercise of the right to work and to freedom of work, but for this domain is an important constitutional provision of Article 44, which it said, quotes: "every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to participate in public affairs and to be admitted to public service". There's no doubt the public record business is a public service. There is no doubt that he has a characteristic job, there is no doubt that this Law gives the public notary public authority in order to carry out public service and in this respect everything is fine. There's one important question left here. Does it matter to us to provide functional binding but not formally? In this respect, some of the colleagues who requested that Article 44 be formally accepted. The constitution in this law in a way that is actually, that is enough to prescribe as an insight that someone is a neighbour, an apprentice, etc., or a consultant in a public record office so that it has an advantage, I don't think that's enough. That's an assumption. I think it must be materially justified and therefore, given that the public record business is evaluated and valued and by others who are monitoring and controlling and implementing this Act, from the Chamber of Public Note to, here it is, now we will also introduce a public record that can be in the county area if there are more notebooks, to the ministry. I believe that the content of that part should be completed, and when these conditions are acquired, formal and content, if someone through their work is, for example, a trainee so later, I don't know, counselor, vice-president and possibly a public notary, etc., has always been regularly, qualitatively evaluated for their work and received quality assessments, etc., from the competent authorities then I think that under the same conditions I should prescribe that such persons should have an advantage over those who only formally meet them. For a simple reason, because other than the theoretical, other than the formal conditions of fulfillment, they have evidence, concrete, expertise and skills that they have shown in the performance of these tasks. And in that respect, I think that article should be done. Therefore, paragraph 10 should not be deleted but perhaps another paragraph 11 or 12 should be added to which this question would be worked out in order to obtain that quality content from which it will pass in itself in order to ensure quality and importance of quality. In fact, Article 7 indicates a number of things that are quite interesting when its analysis is carried out. Every 15 thousand inhabitants in each municipality court headquarters will have the opportunity to form a public record office, so if there are two hundred registered legal entities, i.e. companies or craftsmen, and if there are more commercial courts. So three criteria. Now the question arises whether in the first round all three criteria should be met immediately, so by all three criteria it can be,... in the law or will be deemed to be independent of the number of registered persons if the headquarters of the Commercial Court is to be a public notary, and then after 200 legal persons... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] etc. I don't think it's precise enough and that in this respect it should be added, it should be specified. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope that this regulation on the establishment of public office offices will at least work out, even though it would be an extension of the law through the rule, I think that it would be better for me to change until the vote on this Law to correct this so as not to make such a burden upon myself by the Ministry alone. In Article 9 concerning the proposal to amend and supplement Article 18(3), the new one, which says: "confirms the President by law of a given court." The President of the Court is missing by law of a certain court, you know? It's just missing to make it clear. In Article 10, I must say, I disagree with this amendment. This amendment mitigates the relationship and criterion towards public notaries and therefore results from the fact that any form of a wicked crime is now being replaced because of a serious and particularly unhonorable crime. In fact, the criteria for public notaries are mitigated, and I personally believe that the public notary must respect the legality of and from the aspect of dishonest acts that are minor to all corruptive acts, should not be allowed to do so without a serious violation of his duty and to cease his duty. Therefore, I am of the opinion that this mitigation of this responsibility should not be allowed. Of course, when it comes to depositing the signatures in Article 40, it has its double medal. On the one hand, it is an attempt or may be considered a monopoly to establish individual notaries who deposit their signature at the request of certain legal persons, but on the other hand, it is at the same time the right of legal persons to choose on the market the provision of services in the exercise of public duties the relevant persons in whom they trust and... And in this respect, it's actually a questionable solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's very dubious. As a result, it might be good to consider amendments by my colleagues, Pervan and colleagues of Chachia, that such signatures should possibly be deposited with the Public Bookmark Chamber and that they should be distributed through the Chamber to all public notaries in time to know that they are in charge of this section. But the more I worry about, the more I worry about the situation in Article 42 where it is added, where paragraph 1 is changed, or rather, the first sentence is changed and something new is introduced. There's something new going on that can be given to a worker through a public notebook. I personally am not in favour of this, I think that we should more correctly interpret conventions that protect the rights of workers and, of course, establish the rights and obligations of employers because the employer must still be in contact with his employee either through his authorised representative, but it would not be good to go through public notebooks because in that way, the direct contact that is related to certain types of waste layoffs and in such a situation it always goes to the harm of workers. Of course, I also have to say that I have a few more remarks I just don't know how I'm going to get to say all that, but I'm going to choose the most important one then. In Article 76(5), inter alia, the obligation of damages to the public notary to report to the ministry is prescribed. I think it's totally inappropriate. First it gives him new jobs, second he gives him obligations, etc. And expenses. Imagine that a citizen who has already been damaged by a public notary initiates proceedings in front of the Chamber and then still has to report to the Ministry and... I believe that we should not do this, that we should actually prescribe the obligation vice versa, that the public notary against whom this disciplinary procedure has been initiated because of his responsibility is obliged to report to the ministry, of course those who run anyway except when it comes to damages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you, dear fellow vice president, for this longer, minutes longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82170	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's the thing, of course, I'm going to say at the outset that I absolutely support this law as the final bill, and I think from all the opportunities we've had to hear so far, I think it's necessary at the very beginning to actually answer the question, so what is public record by its definition? In particular, the Law on Public Literature regulates the establishment of powers and the way public records work, but defined as public services, and it consists of its four elements as a public service service. Therefore, in the first instance, the formal assembly and issuance of public documents on legal matters, statements and facts on which rights are justified or justified. Second, in official confirmation of private documents. Third, in receiving for the storage of documents, money and items and items of value for their surrender to other persons or to competent authorities. And fourthly, the exercise by order of courts or other public bodies of procedures laid down by specific law. Public notebooks are, in the sense of legal provisions, independent and independent holders of such defined public services, and have the capacity of persons of public confidence, noting that they carry out their service as an exclusive profession during the time for which they are appointed. Furthermore, the Law on the Inheritance of Public Notes as Commissioners of the Court has been given the jurisdiction of the Unquestionable Legacy, and the Implementing Law empowers the public notaries to issue decisions on the basis of a credible document. In view of the fact that the Law on Public Registration entered into force on 2 September 1993 and was amended in 1994, it was indeed necessary to amend and supplement certain legal solutions, which primarily relate to, therefore, the first development of criteria in terms of the determination of the number of public notebooks and the headquarters of public records offices. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thirdly, by limiting the number of public notary neighbors, then the status of public notary trainees. Then the mandate of the Ministry of Justice in terms of the possibility of launching a disciplinary procedure against public notebooks. Finally, the provisions relating to the conduct of public notebooks in the assembly of public records, the verification of signatures, the presence of witnesses of acts or acts, and the harmonisation of the provisions of the law with the legal terms of the Executive Act, the Law on Inheritance and the Family Law. In particular, it should be pointed out that the comments adopted are discussed in the first reading, and this concerns the possibility of increasing the number of public places, in a way that lays down criteria for the identification of public places in accordance with the economic development of a given area, or whether the municipality or commercial court, registered legal persons and crafts, the number of leftovers and executive cases are established in that area. The amended Article 16 now reduces the population criterion from 20 thousand to 15 thousand for the area of the municipal court in which the seat and seat of the commercial court is located, a further public place is established. And for the area of the municipal court of every 200 registered legal entities, therefore, legal persons under which companies, banks or their branches are involved and, insurance companies and their subsidiaries, associations, foundations or other legal persons or craftsmen who carry out their registered activity and carry out their financial operations through a jury account, a further public note post is therefore established in that sense. Of course, as a criterion, an additional number or analysis of the number of completed or abandoned items shall be taken. In my opinion, it is absolutely to support an amendment relating to the fact that public notaries do not have the advantage over other candidates who meet the conditions for appointment in public places and, of course, all in accordance with the provisions of Article 54 cited. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which attributes that everyone freely chooses to call and hire, and every person under equal conditions is accessible to every job and duty. As regards the number of public notaries, it was indeed necessary to lay down by law, not only because of the larger or smaller number of members in certain public records offices, but in the first order of the principle that the notary is the person who is the holder of the public service, and not that it is generally to transfer it to or be able to pass it on to the other person and thus to function in such a way, the public record office. A particularly important provision in terms of newspapers is that the ministry not only exercises supervision over the working public notaries but can initiate disciplinary proceedings and the disciplinary bodies are obliged to inform the Ministry of Justice about the management and outcome of the disciplinary procedure and, logically, since the basis of the ministry's law itself is the one that implements the procedure for the resolution of public notaries. Furthermore, to support the amended solution that eliminates the possibility of taking advances for the public service performed, since, as a rule, the collection itself is realised immediately after the job has been done. And finally, allow me just a few more terms about status and number and the status of public record holders. Indeed, my view is that given the specific work done in the public records offices in view of the professional preparation, given the experience it takes to carry out public records, I do not believe that in the sense that this is presented in individual discussions, public notebooks only because they carry out their practice or work in a public record office in the sense of being able to appoint them to a public note post to have an advantage in this regard. Namely, graduate lawyers with a legal exam, with a public record exam, of course, working either in an economy or in other jobs with 15, 20 or more years of experience, I do not think it would be a logical solution to place them in one subordinate position in this regard, or that they are automatically merely because certain people have performed or had the status of neighbours in a public record office automatically have an advantage. This would not, in my view, be the office, because this practice, i.e. business or professional legal affairs in some other places, can be more extensive and demanding and generally if it is the courts, the judicial institutions, they are in or legal offices, if they are not more complex, the more demanding is absolutely not possible to put on the advantage of someone who comes from a public record office, so that I support, as well as the fact that the number in certain public records offices is limited to the number of neighbours not to come or that the law does not allow such an opportunity to employ a large number of public notaries in certain public offices and which, of course, in a practical sense or everyday life leads to such situations that persons who are looking for a public note service actually do not know who is a public notary in the area where this public note office is located. In accordance with everything exposed, I absolutely support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82172	Thank you. Dear Representative Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, before us, is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Note which the Proposer has prepared in relation to the first reading and I am pleased that he has accepted the very provision of the Committee on Justice and has given up the regulation or authority of the Ministry of Justice that in certain areas of public notation it may increase or reduce the number of public notaries. So I can initially say that I will accept this final draft of the law, as well as the additional reason why I think it is necessary to accept this reason is that the intensity of this law is to suppress the strengthening or creation of large, massive public records offices where almost every contact between the public notary and citizens is lost. And also this law will allow for new employment. Otherwise, as we heard about public records, a law was adopted and entered into force in 1993, and that law established public service as one newspaper in our legal system, which took over some of the general administrative tasks that former municipal authorities had done before. In part, she took over some judicial affairs but also some specific powers and tasks stemming from changes in the political, economic system after 1990. Following the application of this law in these ten years since its entry into force, it has been shown that some of its provisions are inexplicable and unclear, allowing public notaries to act differently or unequally than to draw up different public records as well as to carry out other public records. There was also economic growth in this period, i.e. an increase in legal traffic, which certainly requires a review of and the number of public records offices. When we talk about the number of public records offices, it is noted that Croatia today has 259 public notebooks, or that one notary office covers 18 thousand and 500 residents while for example in Germany we have 8 thousand and 122 public notebooks or covers one notebook office of 7,000 and 624 inhabitants. As a result of all this, there has been an amendment to the existing provisions governing the conduct of the public notary in the assembly of public records, the verification of signatures, the presence of witnesses of acts as well as the harmonisation of the provisions of the law with the legal amendments to the executive law, the Law on Inheritance, the Family Law and others which will certainly remove all these shortcomings. But what is most important to me and what is changed by this law is to change the criteria for identifying the number of public notebooks. In particular, Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council lays down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. Therefore, it is proposed that the criteria for the identification of the number of public notaries are no longer determined by the number of inhabitants in a given area, but by the degree of economic or legal turnover, especially when we are bound by the fact that the Law on the succession of public notaries, which are commissioners of the court, are given in the jurisdiction and authority of the issuing, the jurisdiction of the uncontested legacy, and the Implementing Law, public notaries are authorised to issue enforcement decisions on the basis of a credible document. As a result, such extended powers of public records and thus increasing the scope of business are proposed to establish, in addition to the municipal court, that we also have a commercial court with the existing criteria as a specific criterion for determining the number of public records in the area of the municipal court. Then, as an additional criterion, it is established that in the municipal court, every 200 registered legal entities or craft offices are designated as one notary place. It is also proposed to take into account, in determining the number of public places, entrusted jobs or the number of leftovers led as executive solutions. According to these criteria, the special regulation adopted by the minister will determine the specific number of seats of public notebooks and it is good that it gave up that provision that the minister himself determines the number of public places. Although there have been a lot of objections here in the debate to the change or erasure of point 10 of Article 13, I do not accept these remarks, and I think it is good that the conditions for the appointment of public notebooks are prescribed in a way that this service is available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions. Because it's hard to imagine that a graduate lawyer with a passed judicial exam or a public record exam who has no experience as a public vice president but who worked in an economy and has no advantage in court or is in a lower rank with a candidate who worked on a public record. The current law did not limit the number of public neighbours, so we have cases from the practice that certain public records offices employed two or more neighbours, so it created public records offices big where, as I said before, there is a loss of contact with public notebooks, and therefore it is also proposed and this is good for this law to limit the number of public notaries to two, which will surely make this service more accessible to citizens and also enable new employment. It is good that it is changed or introduced by the institute of counselors. According to the current law, graduates with a passed judicial exam if employees in the public record office had the status of public trainee. This law proposes that they receive the status of a public notary advisor and to be entered in a directory run by a public record chamber. This solves the problem of the status of public notary practitioners who continue to work with the public notary after a judicial examination has been passed. This law also lays down the scope of the tasks for which public notary advisors are authorised and allows them to carry out, under the powers they had as public notary practitioners, certain other public records activities such as the certification of documents, the issue of appropriate certificates on behalf of and for the account of the public notary. And I can also point out that it is good that this law suggests that the Ministry of Justice can also launch disciplinary proceedings against public notaries. I think it's logical, given the fact that the Department of Justice is in charge of the work of the notebooks. All in all, I believe that it is a good law that will remove a number of ambiguities that have increased and, despite the professional reasons, I believe that it will limit as I have said the opening number of large public offices and will open new jobs and for all these reasons I believe that the bill should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82174	Thank you. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82175	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Although we have already heard something about this in the course of the debate, I would like to add a few more sentences related to Article 6 of the final proposal amending Article 14. The Law on Public Libraries. Contrary to the draft law, I believe that the erasure of paragraph 10 in Article 14 is directly contrary to the generally accepted principles applicable in all areas where a choice is made between several candidates, whether it is the conduct of a duty in public services, whether it is employment, whether it is enrolment in educational institutions and the like. In particular, the issue of advantages in choice, appointment, employment and the like has also been governed by the Law on Courts, where the election of judges gives priority to judicial advisers in relation to other candidates of the Law on State Attorneys, where the election of a deputy State Attorney gives priority to state attorneys etc. Such provisions in these laws have never questioned the constitutional inequality of all before the Constitution and the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, to which the legislator is called in his reasons for eradicating it, and the minister pointed out in her opening statement. On the contrary, I think that eradicating this item could make real assumptions that the appointment of a public notary is done without objectivity, willingly and without any consequences for those who decide, and in the event of the application of a number of candidates of equal terms and Article 14, paragraph 9, only the arbitration of individuals which is certainly not the meaning of the law, and I hope neither the proposal's intention. It should certainly be taken into account also the fact that this is a matter of advantages for both public notary elections in a similar way in the laws of our close European countries, such as Germany, Austria, Italy, France and others, which have also served as a role model for us in the adoption of the Law on Public Literature in 1993, and so today also in Hungary and the Czech Republic. Although it would be referred to in Article 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal for a law has been omitted by the provision of the proposed paragraph 4 which complements the criteria for the determination of the required number of public notebooks according to the number of legal entities and other persons carrying out the registered activity, it must be taken into account that the number of inhabitants themselves as an exclusive criterion for the determination of public records of certain areas leads to a significantly different material position than others. As an example, I will take a public record area covering the municipality court in Sinj, where two public notebooks have been appointed for an area of about 55,000 inhabitants and who have successfully performed all the requested public service services for all 12 years, and at an annual level both perform just as many services as corresponds to the average number of public records services per single notary in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Or another example, the area of the Omis Municipal Court, where only one public notary for an area of about 28 thousand inhabitants has been appointed, and which does not provide even 50% of the services of an average public notary of the Republic of Croatia. To name another number of notebooks according to the population criterion would certainly not satisfy the principle of equal distribution of public places and equal operating conditions of public notebooks, and this could certainly lead to the question of the survival of public service in those areas. On the other hand, Article 7. The final proposal for a law only amending and supplementing in a certain part the existing Article 16. The Law on Public Notes could be seriously challenged by its consistent application and implementation and the survival of the entire public service in all areas in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the good results of the business of certain public records offices. According to available statistics from the State Statistics Office by population and the number of self-active legal entities to be taken as a criterion for the determination of public places according to these indicators in the Republic of Croatia, at least 1100 should be established and at least 500 public places in Zagreb should certainly be missed, thus the purpose of the proposed amendments to the law. With the adoption of my amendment and the basis of the available data on the number of inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia and the number of public records services in 2005 which, according to the final proposal of the law, amounts to a total of 3 million 109 000 587 services for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia at this time, should establish approximately 300 public places to create legal assumptions to further increase public records without re-change of the law in terms of an increase in the number of public records services. The Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Literature also described the differences between the solutions proposed in relation to the solutions set out in the Proposal for a Law and the reasons for which the differences occurred. Among other things, I quote: "It is accepted that certain public notebooks connect with companies, banks and others and thus create a monopoly relationship. It is therefore found in Article 40 of the Treaty on the The final proposal left out the possibility of depositing the signature of a legal representative with a particular public notary. Namely, the deposited signature with the public notary obliged citizens to just come to a certain public record office to perform a public note shop." Complete quote. I share my opinion with those representatives and members of the parliamentary committees who have made observations not to accept the proposal for the deposit of signatures as previously proposed. In order to eliminate the possibility of creating a monofilament of relations between certain public notebooks and certain legal entities, and especially because of the legitimate needs of the economy and experience so far, in order to be necessary in Article 67. The Law on Public Note also install the Institute of Signatures on the basis of a previously deposited signature, a deposited signature on which I have submitted an amendment which is a whole new proposal for the deposit of signatures. Before I finish, I must express my regret that the proposal to introduce quotas is not accepted or to limit the number of public records services by a public record office in order to evenly deploy public records with an explanation that in smaller settlements this is not possible because the same does not reach the average scope of the public notary’s business. It is clear that, in both smaller and larger places, this issue is addressed on the basis of statistical indicators, given that the 13-year service period has provided sufficient elements for the full statistical processing of the results of the work, so it is not talked about arbitrary figures that would limit someone's development. It is further argued that it would make it difficult for citizens to access offices or restrict the business of the public notary by limiting the scope of the work. The question is raised as to the essence of a public-booking service which is not marketable without the possibility of any marketing service that is public, and thus as such the scope of the business and thus the achievement of the income is not a fundamental feature. In the past, thanks to some members, the service has acquired a certain public animosity precisely because it has seen extremely large profits from individuals. So the scope of the job should not be an impact on the settlement of the quota issue. The applicant solves this problem with the possibility of setting up new public records offices in areas where it requires a range of jobs. However, this formulation does not solve the so-called problem. small and large offices where the first ones are overbooked and the other ones are on the threshold of survival. I believe that today's long-term waiting situation in certain offices while neighbouring offices are half-empty by introducing quotas would be resolved. The public would very well accept the information of equalising the business of all offices and the assumption is that no one would find it difficult to go to another street if the quota in a particular office was filled for the current year, given the proximity and schedule of public records offices in large cities. I am convinced that the public would be less negatively sensitive to this service if the scope of the work in the public office became more even. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82176	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82177	Only one really small correction of the allegations because several discussions have already led to the fact that court advisers or court practitioners have the advantage of appointing judges to others, so that they should apply the same thing here. That is not true, because this formal advantage in court advisers or trainees does not exist so that I was saying so, but in the correction of my colleague Anticevic it would indeed in a formal and legal sense not be in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82178	And Emil Tomljanovic's correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82179	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, I will correct the incorrect assumption because she is a colleague, and before that we have heard in some discussions literally said that the Law on Courts prescribed the exclusive advantage of court counselors or trainees. That's an incorrect quote. So that's an incorrect quote. I was quoting that. Therefore, in this respect, it is particularly true that the exclusive advantages or advantages are legally inaccurate and unacceptable to compare this with the status of court practitioners in relation to public notifiers.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82180	And final review by Justice Minister Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82181	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here I will also begin this final review because I must do so by correcting the incorrectly stated allegations here in the debate by the parliamentary representatives. Namely, one parliamentary representative corrected the exact allegations under the Institute of Correction of the False Recital was corrected by an incorrect allegation, which means that the Ministry of Justice did not have the possibility to initiate a strict procedure by current law, and it did not have, and precisely because the Ministry of Justice had in the control of the performance of the public record service it was then necessary and by law to introduce its right to initiate a tight procedure. Recently, we all remember the case of a public notebook in Rijeka that was also in custody, and the Ministry of Justice couldn't do anything in that case because it had no authority to initiate a tight procedure. So it's true that this final bill introduces it. It is equally persistent here from a part of the parliamentary MPs repeatedly incorrectly, and that is the case with the reasons for the proposed amendments that propose to abolish the provision in this final proposal of the law that the neighbours do not have the advantage in the choice of public notaries by explaining that such an advantage is given to court advisers and state counsellors. Since this has repeatedly been repeated here and is repeated in the reasons for the amendments, I will read here the provision of the article that speaks, the Law on Courts, which speaks of the conditions for selecting a judge who may be so, and says: “a person who has worked as a consultant in a court or another judicial body for at least two years, or who has been a lawyer intern or a public prosecutor for two years, or a person who has worked on other legal affairs for four years. ” As we can see for the election, the conditions for a choice for a judge are not limited, the priority of a court advisor in the election is not determined, nor has this been established for public notary advisors. So much for that. And I'd say there's no fear. That was said to rock a public record profession that would collapse. No worries. There is no way that a judge of the County Court or a judge of the Municipal Court or a Judge of the Commercial Court would be less capable and less professional so as not to be able to compete in a public competition with a public notary. The possibility should therefore be opened. This kind of professional protection is neither intended for judges nor for state attorneys. Therefore, the proposer of this law considers that it does not have to be for public notation. There has been talk that this is about being hunted in a murky hunt or being a non-transparent choice or having the minister appoint and appoint non-transparent. We simply cannot accept this because we think that the transparent and democratic choice is if the approach to choice is made available to the wider circle of people. Just one more thing about, that another important thing to say here because it was shown by the HSS Club was an observation that the deluded representatives on the committees had agreed to this proposal with the public record chamber. The proposal is true that it is in line with the public record chamber, but it is obvious then that some public notebooks continue to insist and lobby for these different solutions. And I still owe one answer. Mr. Radosh asked if we knew what the consequences of this law were. Whether or not the intensity of this law is going to happen, which is to allow for a greater number of public places, to ensure a more balanced schedule of jobs and to make public service citizens available. Of course, I have to say here that when setting public places, the criteria of so number of inhabitants, the number of legal persons in a particular area are priced equally in the opinion of the Public Note Chamber of the County Court, the authorities of the state administration, and that the need for public records is always considered. Why, just as we have heard the number, the average number of citizens and legal persons has fallen as it approaches the European average. But we certainly didn't do it by heart, but because we have experienced finding that about this number of inhabitants and that number of legal entities is that number of public records, about 10 thousand how optimal it is for a public record office. And here, because of the public records fees and taxis it is, of course, the subject of the second law, but what should be pointed out is that in the transactions that have been transferred to public notebooks, and in the case of commissions and leaves, in all cases, the fees remain the same as before courts. So for the citizens, the procedure did not, that fee did not increase. Here's Mrs. and gentlemen of the Parliament I thank you for your debate. I thank you for the suggestions for the improvement of this text we're going to make through the amendments and we're going through it. And I suggest you pass this law because it will certainly contribute to a better, more efficient and more balanced public service. And what I still have to say in the end is that there's no concern for small places. Of course, where there is a public record post, if there is no market interest, there will be no public place. But in any case, citizens shall be assured that these transactions are carried out by the body of the state administration or the court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82182	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this bill. Final conclusion, Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration, Second Reading. Do we have the amendment plate? Minister Anna Lovrin. Here you go. Amendment 1. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82184	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82185	It becomes an integral part of the law of the same committee. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82186	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82187	It becomes an integral part of the law. 3rd Representative of Miroslav Chachia?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82188	It is not accepted as it would lead to constitutional inequality for the reason that this advantage is not accepted nor provided for by the Court of Justice Act nor the Law on State Attorneys for State Attorneys.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82189	Thank you. We have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4 by Biserka Perman is identical since... /The speakers are not understood, speak out loud./...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82190	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82191	It's been consumed. We're not voting. 5. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82192	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82193	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 6th Representative Drazen Bošnjakovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82194	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82195	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Seven. The HSU counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82196	This amendment is not accepted and not because of its essence because this substance is already resolved by the Construction Act, and in particular by the Regulation on ensuring the accessibility of persons with disabilities and reduced mobility, thus predicting that this must be arranged for all public, business and housing affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82197	Comrade Hrelj, amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 8th Representative Miroslav Cacia?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82198	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons why it would introduce public registration quotas in the cases and, proposed, the proposed proposal achieves the same effect by cumulatively, cumulatively applying all the criteria prescribed for the identification of the number and place and seat of the public notebooks. So economic reasons, legal traffic, the number of legal persons and the number of natural persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82199	We have to vote. ... MPs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment of the 9th Representative of Pearl Perman is identical, and we do not vote on him. Ten. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82200	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82201	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 11th of the same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82202	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82203	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 12th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82204	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82205	It's an integral part of the law. The 13th of the same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82206	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82207	It's an integral part of the law. 14th?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82208	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82209	The same committee, it becomes an integral part. 15th of the same law?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82210	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82211	The same committee becomes an integral part of the Law. The 16th Representative of Miroslav Chachia?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82212	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82213	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 17th Representative of the Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82214	It is not accepted because it has been consumed in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82215	Yeah, well, he's accepted because he's been accepted before. So the amendment of the representative, Biserka Perman, was accepted. [[Agreement: Previous]] The same becomes an integral part of the Law. The 18th Representative of Miroslav Chachia?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82216	It is not accepted because such a deposit, depositing of signatures in a public record chamber would lead to an exceptional legal uncertainty and the basis of public record work is precisely trust and personal assurance of facts and subjects whose certificate and confirmation is required.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82217	We have to vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 19th representative of Biserka Perman is identical, consummated, voted. 20. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82218	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82219	It's an integral part. 21st of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82220	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82221	It's becoming an integral part. 22nd of the same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82222	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82223	It's becoming an integral part. 23rd of the same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82224	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82225	It's an integral part. 24th of the same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82226	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82227	It's part of the station. The 25th of the same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82228	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82229	It's an integral part. And the 26th same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82230	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82231	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 74 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 9 against the adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. The next and final point tonight is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship, second reading of P.Z. No. 519. The Proposer is the Government. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Tonight. We don't want this other court law. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, justice, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, human rights and the rights of national minorities. It's a second reading. Amendments until the end of the debate. Justice Minister Ana Lovrin will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the proposal, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorney's Office. He passed the first reading. The comments of the public hearing were also adopted. And here is the final draft of the law, which first wants to regulate the jurisdiction of the civil and administrative departments of the municipal, county and state attorneys of the Republic of Croatia. Since the amendments to the Constitution in 2001 and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office have led to the merger of the State's Attorney's Office and the Attorney's Office. This resulted in jurisdiction and protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia in addition to the persecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences. Through the application of the law so far, certain difficulties have been observed in determining the competence of the civil-government departments. The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia has often had to decide on which state's attorney's office is responsible in a particular case. Therefore, these amendments propose to regulate the jurisdiction of civil and administrative departments, deputies in those departments and, for decision-making, and to address the state and its bodies which, by law, are represented by the State's attorney. The second question was to regulate the power of representation. According to the current provision of the Law on State Attorney's Office, the State's attorneys could, on the basis of special powers, represent units of local, regional self-government where this was justified in view of the case. As a rule, local self-government units and regional authorities gave general power to represent in all cases. On the basis of Article 124, The Constitution of the State Attorney's Office is defined as an independent and independent judicial body authorised to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, not in the protection of the property of local units. In view of the scope of the affairs that the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia has in this way, the amendments to this law remain to be represented on the basis of special powers in civil and administrative matters, legal persons owned and predominantly owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is in accordance with the constitutional provision. The third was, which was intended to regulate these changes, improve internal surveillance and create a system of quality and objective evaluation of state attorneys for valorising their work in progress in public, in the career of the State Attorney's Office. The proposal has developed a whole series of new quantifiable criteria which are the basis for the evaluation. Furthermore, the establishment of the Department of International Law Assistance and Cooperation is being organised because international co-operation has been intensified over the past few years, especially in the part of the fight against organised crime and corruption, which are as we know, cross-border and transnational, and therefore intensive inter-state co-operation is needed. This law further seeks to distinguish matters of the state's attorney's office from the judicial administration, improve the procedure for the appointment and resolution of state attorneys, resolve the matter of the transfer, introduce property cards for state's attorneys, give new powers to state's attorneys, determine what data are from the work of the State's attorney's office, and determine the annual content, the content of the annual reports of the State's attorney's office. Here is the Final Bill and the Proposer proposes that it be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82234	Thank you. Legislative committees. The Committee on Justice, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82235	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. At the 51st session held on 23 January 2007, the Croatian Judicial Committee discussed the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the proposer's representative referred to the differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law. A proposal by the Justice Committee bound by the State Attorney's Office to give an opinion within 30 days of receipt of the necessary documentation has been accepted. A proposal has been accepted that all candidates should pass security checks. It is possible to refer to work in the state's higher-level attorney's office. In the debate, the committee members supported the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. The final proposal for a law contains the following comments and proposals. In Article 8 of the Law amending Article 17, it is proposed to delete "i". In paragraph 2 of that Article, it is necessary to add that an opinion can be given before a decision is taken. It is proposed that Article 54 accept the formulations already contained in the Courts Act in a way that paragraph 4 is amended and reads as follows: "The form and content of the form of the report is signed by the Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary.". Paragraph 5 is added, which reads as follows: "State attorneys and deputies appointed to office before the entry into force of this Act shall submit a report within three months of the date of the publication of the Regulation." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 66(1) of the Law, it is proposed to correct the error as the article, Article 43 and not Article 42 is cited. Article 66 is also proposed to be incorporated into the transitional and final provisions of the law. The Committee suggests to the applicant that the comments and proposals made before the law is passed. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously proposed by 8 votes to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Law with the next amendment. The amendment was proposed unanimously. Amendment 1 to Article 7 So in Article 16(4), the words "State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia" are replaced by the words "competent State's Attorney's Office". Reason: The proposed provision aims to relieve and facilitate the work of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. According to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, it would remain to give its views on the legal validity of the legal work when it is legally prescribed, and in all other cases the opinion on the legal validity of the legal work would be given by the competent state attorney's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82236	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? Human rights and the rights of national minorities? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82237	Thank you. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club supports the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the State Attorney's Office is authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences and to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the law. Therefore, the constitutional provision itself does not define the State Attorney's Office as a judicial body which is authorised to act and take legal action when it comes to the protection of property of local self-government and regional (regional) self-government units. Although this possibility was provided for by the State Attorney's Law, in particular Article 16 which opened the possibility for state attorneys to represent, on the basis of special powers, civil administrative and local self-government units and regional (regional) self-government, and in situations where the State's attorney rejects the power of attorney, it is his obligation to inform the senior state attorney who makes the final decision about it. Accordingly, the logical solution that is now proposed in view of the work of the State Attorney's Office as the legal representative of the Republic of Croatia on the one hand, and on the other, often interests are in relation to local self-government units in relation to the Republic of Croatia, so they are often and may be contrary. This should also be accompanied by those situations where civil relations result in elements of criminal liability and where the state's attorney's office ex offo therefore has to act. So an absolutely acceptable solution, noting that there remains the possibility of representation on the basis of special powers in civil and administrative matters but legal persons owned or mostly owned by the Republic of Croatia. By representing this very legal person, the role of the State Attorney's Office is clearly fulfilled in such a way that it is able to protect the property of these legal persons, and hence the direct property interests of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, as very important, it is necessary to support, of course, the amendment of the law relating to the establishment of special departments of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, the first one to deal with the supervision of work, education, monitoring of quality legal and other experts in the State's attorneys' offices. Furthermore, the new system of evaluation of the work of state lawyers should provide as many objective criteria as possible for assessing the work of state attorneys, not that this depends on the subjective assessment of a senior state attorney. And that is exactly the kind of assessment that should become the standard and basis of advancement in the State's Attorney's Office. In this context, the legislative provision authorising the attorney-general to adopt a specific instruction to develop the criteria for assessing and monitoring the work of deputies and deputies and state lawyers should be supported. It should also support the establishment of a department for international legal assistance and cooperation. The reasons and need not in particular be explained in view of the growing need to develop international cooperation between state attorneys, provide legal assistance and directing work of deputies in the bodies of the Council of Europe and regional associations and networks of state lawyers. Furthermore, the affairs of the state's attorney's office and this solution should be unreservedly supported. It is necessary to distinguish with regard to a purely judicial administration, and judicial inspection matters should indeed be taken into account under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice in order to effectively supervise the state's attorneys' offices in the affairs of the judicial administration. And final. The introduction of property cards in terms of prescribing the obligation to register assets and the significant changes in its value for the duration of the duties should be accepted as a novelty and a means of preventing possible corruption of course in relation to all the designated judges, and only to those appointed as new judges or newly appointed judicial officials. In line with everything said and at the very end, here is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community fully supports the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82238	For the club HNS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82239	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, in the second reading, we have received a proposal for a law on the State's Attorney's Office whose function is primarily to improve, stand up and ultimately define the functioning of this significant part of the judicial authority. Let's remember that a few months ago, and then a year ago and a year earlier, and so each time we warmly praised the state's attorney's report, which was made up the way it was, professionally, well explained and so on. However, despite the obvious good functioning of the State Attorney's Office, this Law provides, the proposal for this Law predicts that once and for all, it defines what this report should look like. Which is actually good that the thing doesn't stay at the level of the fact that right now we have a great state lawyer who's capable of doing it. Another time maybe someone with a little less imagination. The form of this report by a state lawyer should certainly be subject to such a law and should be codified in such a way that anyone who becomes a state lawyer tomorrow can, in the same way and in the same way and in the same content, make this report so that we can also praise future reports. What exactly does the promoter want? What the Proposer wants is worked out at 11 points. I will try to briefly state the position of the Croatian People's Party on each of these points. First of all, more clearly define jurisdiction. Okay, jurisdiction really needs to be defined more clearly, it needs to be defined and perhaps even strengthened by a state attorney to make deals, deals, outside court settlements on behalf of the state in a situation where he defends state property, when he's trying to protect state property. So we don't have what's happening to us these days that Christmas cards for teachers in higher school education have grown to 11,000 kuna. They were promised when 5,000 kunas were promised. They've grown to 11,000 kuna. The deal wasn't made because something happened, no one knows exactly what happened, and the state is really going to have to pay for it. It's not small money, there's no such thing as a terrible lot of high school teachers, but the number is still pretty good. Therefore, it is good that the state's attorney has the opportunity to make such settlements simply in order to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, it is disabled, in fact, that the proposer argues that there is no need for a state lawyer and that it is against the constitution that a state lawyer represents the interests of local and regional self-government in property-legal disputes. This point is questionable for us. In fact, the question of the definition of the Republic of Croatia is what is this state? Is the municipality a congregation whose budget does not cover a third of its costs, or is it not? If so, why can't the state's attorney represent her interests in these disputes. Because if he doesn't, no one else will be able to, that community has enough money to get some kind of, I don't know what kind of resolutions a great lawyer would hire to represent her interests. Then when it comes only to the interests of the Municipality of Saborsko, therefore, not to some state interest, something in which the state has a majority stake, majority property. Of course it is perfectly clear that in a situation of conflict of interest between local self-government, regional self-government and the central state, a state lawyer cannot be on both sides. That's clear by definition. In this situation, the state attorney represents the interests of the central state or the interests of the Republic of Croatia. We think that in some legal text, it would be possible to define this, to simply enable these poorer units of local self-government to benefit from the expertise, strength, power and knowledge of the State's Attorney's Office, because they also pay taxes in the final instance. Where it is not in conflict with the interests of the central state. The internal surveillance and education in this proposal were put together for the simple reason that the promoter wanted to in fact in some way encourage, so if it can be said and forced people working in the State's Attorney's office to be educated and their whole lives, right, like we all do and what we all need to do. At first glance, the thing looks a little administrative, looks like coercion, but we are convinced that it is good and that civil servants, so in this case state lawyers, should simply be forced into education if they wish not only to advance in that service but also to survive in that service. One who is not ready to be educated in a job that works for the state as an employer all his life, there's really nothing to look for in that job. International cooperation, great. That department should've started earlier. It is to be assumed that cooperation will be established with Austria, so we may once come through this cooperation and all those huge accounts in the klagenfurts, in Graz, I don't know in Salzburg, where these accounts exist, so we're running out of one major part of the affairs we're dealing with in this Parliament as well. It's also good that the State's Attorney's Office is separate from the court's administration. Because, finally, jobs are not the same, and the State's Attorney's office doesn't have to and isn't always on the same side of the court or in the same business. In the whole situation, it is only necessary to be careful as finally with the judicial administration that the administrative part of the business does not interfere with the scale of things. The administrative part of the job concerns the organisational functioning of the institution, in this case the State's Attorney's Office, but the measure of things is something that is absolutely independent and that is finally a constitutional category. In the case of appointing and resolution criteria, there remains a provision of 70 years until which time state lawyers can work. In our first reading discussion, we suggested that the border be lowered as well as for all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia and civil servants for 65 years, with the view that this job is if nothing else is as stressful as any other business in the state administration and state services. And it's certainly in the mass of its elements and more stressful, so it's hard to expect that man can do it effectively by the year 70. There are us here who are close to that age and would hardly expect another 20 years of that kind of work to work. But the proposal remained the way it remained. Certainly not only is it necessary but it is necessary for both the State's Attorney's Office and the people who work in the State's Attorney's Office to introduce a property card, in the next item of the Court's agenda, to talk again about the property cards of judges. In almost every regulation that we have, regarding the functioning of the state administration, in this case, we are talking about property cards quite clearly because we will soon come to the conclusion that there is no good organisation and good functioning of the state without the introduction of property cards for all citizens. What's not good here or in the Law of Courts is that these property cards are secrets. They are public officials, so you can see them on the Internet, open up a conflict of interest page and show you the property card for each of us. I don't see any reason why in the jurisdictional section, it couldn't do the same. The 11th point dealing with, or 11th intention to deal with, this Act is to define the confidentiality of information. The secrecy of the data, don't say anything. The secrecy of data in the State Attorney's Office certainly requires a category, but it should be limited to what could directly affect the safety of the Republic of Croatia, or the functioning of the state as a system. Everything else can be very easily turned into a malversion which is on the trail and what Mr. Bajic said in public media the other day, advising his deputies throughout Croatia that during this year their actions should not be used for political purposes, for the purpose of starting any procedures that would benefit from the elections on either side. A similar way can be used by the Institute of Information Secrecy, if it is not good and precise. All of these changes are necessary, we think they're systematically processed, we don't think they're all covered, we expect this law to be back on these benches in a few months or a year, but what we're assessing inside is acceptable and we're going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82240	Thank you. SDP club, the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82241	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister. Let me immediately say in the opening part that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the State Attorney's Office because we believe that this amendment and supplementation is necessary, that it introduces innovations into ours, in the conduct of the State's Attorney's Office, that it gives one new quality, and in this respect it certainly raises this segment of legal legislation to an even higher degree of interest in the Republic of Croatia, and of course convergence in this segment of relations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. We must say that in this respect we have, of course we particularly support the position of the State's Attorney's Office that it is necessary to amend Article 16. The law relating to the mandatory representation of units of local and regional self-government in property matters since it is obvious and rightly state the reasons for the motions of the Law that this provision is not sufficient in accordance with Article 124. The constitution which states that the State's Attorney's Office should actually protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. state property. It is clear that the unit of local and regional self-government is not state property and that it is necessary to enable units of local and regional self-government to take other opportunities, i.e. give full power to other responsible persons, especially lawyers, to do so. But what's interesting, we from time to time, year to year actually have a transitional time around this issue. Even now, this amendment also gives a transitional time for this provision to be amended and amended in Article 16, i.e. Article 16. The Law on the State's Attorney's Office shall apply from 1.7.2007. Here we need to point out one particularly important question for us at the Club of Representatives because it is a problem when there is a possible conflict of interest, because there are possible and there have been such cases when the interest of both the Republic of Croatia and the interest of the unit of local self-government in the protection of actually rights and property, in relation to property and property itself. I'm not going to say, say, when it comes to our coast, let's say, around the borders, about the maritime goods. Therefore, it is quite clear that in such a situation the sea and may come and therefore it is good to distinguish this issue, to open up the possibility that, in accordance with the Constitution, the State Attorney's Office protects the property owned by the Republic of Croatia, and the units of local self-government which are otherwise separate from the State in terms of central government that they can and should provide for an adequate representation either through their administrative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, whether through elected authority who will empower them to protect their interests and their rights, obligations and responsibilities in such a business before the courts and administrative bodies of the Republic of Croatia. The other thing that we consider important is that it is related to this amendment and the addition of the law is a particular issue that concerns improving the procedure and the appointment and resolution of state lawyers and deputies for several reasons. First, this is the first bill in which the fine distinction that is present in our Constitution is actually kind of withdrawn and written and publicly published in the bill of law, which is that the State's Attorney's Office and not just that, but above all, it is not part of the judicial authority. Our Constitution gives rise to the judicial authority from the judiciary in a broad sense to the word of which the State's Attorney's Office enters, of course, etc. But the judicial authority is carried out by courts, and in this respect, when it comes to the division of power between the legislative and the executive and the judicial authorities, then it is meant to be the courts. And the second is the conduct of the judiciary in a broader sense that can appear either as a party, either as a service both to the judicial and to the judicial authorities and to the judicial authority. This is the first thing to be welcomed, and in this respect it is especially the part to be indicated. But what made me particularly happy was the analysis of this fact, which led to quite the right conclusion, that certain regulations relating to security checks do not have to be applied to state attorneys because they are not an integral part of that judicial authority. And in this respect, we have one example of this as we now have in current political practice an example of another where the rules, implementing regulations, a full regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be applied extensively. So it went to that extent to better check out others so they wouldn't accidentally miss someone but the ones they needed. There's actually a double quality here that's where the state's attorney says it's still possible to run a check, but then I have to ask for the consent of the one who's being checked to do it. Of course, in the law, a fine distinction is prescribed still where this one can deny consent but only by denying consent is, of course, an appropriate guideline and a position on which the state's attorney can take care of when appointing for a senior state attorney's office or for the same... Therefore, these are things that are a new quality in the law that should be welcomed and which in a better way regulates existing relationships and raises them to a higher level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third thing that is also important is the issue of internal control over the work of a state attorney who essentially introduces one element that is not so present in the European judiciary regarding state attorneys, not in German or Romanian, but more present in the American principle. The state's attorney's office is acting on an extended and pre-examination or rather if you want to go to the police that's actually called internal surveillance regarding laws and work. Here, above all, this surveillance refers to work and, of course, refers to the legality of work. We support that part. We support, among other things, the announcement of future tendencies possible changed not only by our position as State Attorney and Police, but also by their functions in the process, the criminal procedure where more and more space is being opened for the investigation process to be joined or separated from the investigative court, etc., which shows that this legal amendment and the addition are being prepared for such behaviour of the State Attorney's Office together with the police at such an important stage, but at the same time prescribes very rigorous rights, obligations and responsibilities in relation to practices which on the one hand want to ensure quality and on the other hand, which is particularly important for the citizens and legal persons to whom there will be direct application of this law, in fact respect of the principle of legality which must ensure that all are equal and that the law is applied in the same cases equally to all. Because of that part, we think that this also deserves our... Of course, these other issues that are important here and which are mentioned, as is the issue of cooperation at international level, we must say that this part is slightly expanding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe this should be further worked out. You know, this part is a new addition, the spread of this, but we believe that given the obligations we take especially to international agreements and international conventions in the fight against organised crime and corruption, we should actually further expand this cooperation not only or at the level of the State's attorneys with the countries of the European Union and the European Economic Area but also a wider environment than other working bodies dealing with this organised crime. Let's not forget that actually the key position in USKOK makes exactly the people of the State's Attorney's Office either directly or indirectly. In particular, we believe that we should support this idea that is present in this Law on the demarcation of State Attorney's Office's affairs from the judicial administration on the one hand and that this model should in some way extend to both judicial and judicial power but even more so in the ministry itself. Here, this started through a judicial inspection practically a judicial inspection now in the State's Attorney's Office. That should be further resolved. For the simple reason they must withdraw the lines of demarcation, in fact, who serves and who actually pursues, prosecutes, or if you want to judge if it is a judicial authority. That's why we think we're actually giving this support because it's a step forward, but we don't think that it's all worked out to the end. We think there's still room and we should think about it and keep going in that direction. Of course, the question that is at the end of the day and the term could be said also a little bit of an urgent situation in which we find ourselves, which is a matter of relocating and a strict responsibility, as well as the permanent transfer of this transfer particularly without the consent of a state attorney. We believe that this should nevertheless be seen, add additional conditions when it can be moved by a state attorney or his deputy by a state lawyer without his consent to perform certain tasks which are clearly necessary and necessary. In fact, this is as important as the issue that introduces the property card for officials or state lawyers. We support it, it's good in relation to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. This is necessary not only for this form of official but for all officials, regardless of whether it was a legislative, executive, judicial or judicial authority in a broad sense or a state public administration, until we actually got a tax card. The moment we get our tax cards and I hope that we will finally adopt the Tax Cards Act in Croatia for all citizens who are actually going to be able to compare what we have or what we gain in one year with the incomes we make and then actually see what is realistically possible to buy, what is not possible to buy for those incomes that we have achieved through our work, whether by donations, whether I don't know the inheritance, etc. Then there will be this situation a little bit for most people too high, to introduce additional cards and this part will be for us state officials on the one hand... on the other hand, an additional valve for possible control of the conflict of interest that we are carrying out in concrete affairs and will need to be kept for state officials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why we have one small substitute, which is that it says here that even during the conduct of our duties, it will be a state's attorney to report significant changes in the value of the assets they have acquired. Now imagine, for example, the next situation. Let them have an average apartment of 80 or 100 square meters in Zagreb at an average price of 2 thousand and 400 euros per square, let them have a holiday house at sea, possibly a yacht, etc. Once you get to somewhere very quickly between 500 thousand and possibly a million euros. Now the question is what is more significant than the property. Is that 5% of that property, 10% more, etc.? We of the SDP consider that any change that contributes to the acquisition of assets in such sensitive categories as officials in the executive, legislative, judicial and natural law should be reported and that is not a reason, there will be no problem if the property is reported and if there is a reason and basis, on which basis the acquisition of the property for which it has been purchased or purchased is also justified. Of course, when it comes to education, we have a small observation. We don't think it's a good solution by which it's mandatory to educate the state's attorneys and their deputies at the academy. It seems to us that it's getting a little bit into fundamental human rights. In fact, it does not have to accept by us the obligation to go to regular education and to a judicial academy that will be prescribed, but, of course, if it does not accept it, it has a different effect on the assessment of its work related to the knowledge and abilities it has or does not have, especially if it reflects its knowledge and skills on the effects and tasks it performs. There may also be absurd situations as is known. University teachers and teachers can also be appointed state lawyers and we have had in practice in the past 15 years when state lawyers or deputies were university professors who essentially need to listen to the state academy and teach to regular students, graduates and postgraduate studies, and in such a situation sometimes it becomes funny to go to such courses. But what's far more important is that we actually further elaborate the question so-called. practical skills not sufficiently developed either in the judicial academy programme or in many other issues that state lawyers should also have in order to be able to represent the interests of the parties or a concrete state in relation to the protection of fundamental values in accordance with the Constitution and the law. So, to cut short or to conclude. We will support this bill. We believe that it is more quality, that it is better than the current law was but we point to the need to have more space in the next amendment and the addition of the law or the full adoption of laws that could open the possibility of additional legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82242	Thank you. Please, Mr. Arlovic. The club of representatives of HSU respected representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82243	Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with an assistant, colleagues and colleagues! I will be watching as short as possible, but it is my duty to say that in front of the Croatian Party's retirement club that for reasons of improving and ensuring the stability of the entire system, the judicial system, or the state's attorney's system, we will support this final bill without reservation, and I will look particularly at four key positions for which we will do so. Because this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office more precisely determines the competences of the State's Attorney's Office, which was enough in the period following the amendment of the Constitution in 2001, quite problematic. Namely, the Law on State's Attorney's Office allows for the creation of a new state's attorney's office by joining the former state's attorney's office with the state's attorney's office. The lack of legal solutions on jurisdiction has been addressed by the internal instructions of the attorney general and these amendments should be precisely established by this final proposal of the law. This applies in particular to bringing an action before the Court of Justice, before the Constitutional Court, and to proceedings before commercial courts. The second is the reason why the powers of representation are more precise. The Constitution stipulates that the State Attorney's Office is authorised and obliged to take legal action in order to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and not to protect the property of the local self-government and regional self-government units. I know that this will bring some problems, especially in those units of local self-government and regional self-government that have very thin budgets, but in any case, it is also the duty of the unit of local self-government or regional self-government to seek solutions or to find a way to protect their property and protect their interests. Already, counterpart Arlovic said there are specialised or highly skilled law offices dealing with this and where these contracts can be concluded, so it is not without a solution. And it is right to orderly be told that the power to represent in that part of the representation of the local self-government unit is deleted. Furthermore, one of the key points for which we will support this Final Proposal of the Law on State Attorneys is internal supervision of the work of state lawyers and the system of evaluation. This is, in our opinion, the most significant change in the law that proposes the establishment of a special department of the Croatian State Department to deal with the work, education and monitoring of staff, the promotion of staff in law enforcement. Through the new evaluation system, the evaluation is objective and not so far, depending on the subjective assessment of the superior. The review of the evaluation would be conducted by a senior state attorney and the attorney general is obliged to provide guidance on the development of the evaluation criteria. The third key reason we support is the process of appointing and resolving state's attorneys. The appointment proposes a security check required for the candidate by the attorney general and, according to specific rules in such checks, it must obtain a written statement from the candidates that they agree to the verification. It is also predicted that the state's chief attorney has previously held an oral conversation with the candidate. In the process of resolution and, in particular, the main state attorney, it is a newspaper that there is a procedure of opinion to be requested before the resolution itself, as well as the fact that, in parallel, strict procedures that prevent further work, such as further work as Deputy State Attorney. This legislative proposal makes the procedures and appointments and resolutions listed more taxative, with an emphasis on the objectivity and quality of the staff. It is already said, we also underline and welcome, and one of the reasons why we support this bill is the introduction of property cards with the fact that we appreciate what a colleague of Vuljanić has said here for this speaker, and we advocate the public content of property cards, not that it is an internal knowledge or knowledge of a particular circle of people. So this, this final draft law on State Attorney's Attorney's Office introduces the duty of applying its property before the entry into office and after the termination of the duty and what has already been troublesome by my colleague Arlovic, there would be much to talk about what they mean at a certain point an increase in property and what is it, which is the scale on which to apply even though I can and ask whether something is mine if it's still mortgaged or if I got credit? It would be a lot to discuss, but I agree with all who have previously said that this is a newspaper that is supported and we, in front of the Croatian pensioners, support it. Furthermore, this Final Proposal for a Law on the State Attorney's Office defines and determines the content of the report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament because it has a double function. First, on the state of protection, on the state of protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia as well as on the movement of crime in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. to show the work of the lawyership as a whole. Furthermore, there are also a number of issues that address these amendments and additions, i.e. the Final Proposal for a Law on the State's Attorney's Office, which mainly refers to respecting the rules of the ethical code and the precisely elaborated procedures for the relocation of strict responsibility and similarity which we also welcome, and to conclude, we will support this proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82244	Thank you very much, dear colleague Hrelja. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is a respected colleague of Rade Ivas. Here you go, colleague Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82245	My colleagues and colleagues, I can immediately say that I support the adoption of this Act because it certainly gives a new quality in the work of the State's Attorney's Office and introduces certain innovations in the conduct of the State's Attorney's Office. Otherwise, the Law on State Attorney's Office was adopted in 2001 and this Law governs the establishment and jurisdiction of the State's attorney, the conditions and procedure for the appointment and resolution of the State's attorney and his deputies, their powers, rights and duties, as well as their strict responsibilities. This Act also regulates the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration, the State & apos;s Attorney’s Office and the conditions for the reception of officials, deputies, the keeping of official secrecy and the provision of resources for the work of the State’s Attorney’s Office. During these five years of this Law, certain needs have arisen for individuality, some of its provisions build upon new legal solutions, or that so far solutions are arranged in another way. That is why the Proposer also wishes to regulate the jurisdiction of civil and legal departments, municipal, county and state attorneys. To coordinate representation powers in accordance with the Constitution. To improve supervision, improve internal surveillance of the work of the State Attorney's Office, enable the establishment of the Department of International Legal Assistance. It shall determine the content of the annual reports, distinguish the tasks of the State Attorney's Administration and the Judicial Administration, resolve the issues in question concerning the transfer of tight responsibility and the tight procedure, arrange the property card for debtors, give new powers to advisers, determine what data are from the work of the State's Attorney's Office of Secrets, and remove the identified ambiguities in individual articles. I'll try to say something just about some of these suggestions that I think are important. The amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia define that this is the State Attorney's Office, and these amendments have been made that the State Attorney's Office is an independent, independent legal body which acts against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences, that it takes action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and that it provides legal means to protect the Constitution and the law. On the basis of these amendments to the Constitution, as I said in 2001, a Law on the State's Attorney's Office was passed, which actually formed a new lawyership by joining the former State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Office. This Law wanted one law to regulate the jurisdiction of these former state lawyers in a similar way but the practice showed that some of the solutions relating to the jurisdiction and powers of the current civil... They are not the best that led to the case that the main state, that the State's Attorney's Office had to determine jurisdiction over certain cases through various cracks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Surely this made it more difficult for the State's Attorney's Office to work so that these changes were made more detailedly to regulate the jurisdiction of the civil and legal departments. Furthermore, what is important in this law is to change the power of representation. In so far, Article 16 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states: The law provides that the State Attorney's Office may, on the basis of special powers, represent units of local and regional, regional self-government. In the debate, we heard that this is a provision, and I think it's the right thing to do, contrary to Article 124. A constitution that says that the State's Attorney's Office is authorised and obliged to take legal action to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. The protection of the property of local self-government units is therefore proposed that the State Attorney's Office no longer represents local self-government, which in practice has shown that in many cases the interests of local self-government are contrary to the interests of the state of the Republic of Croatia. We have also heard here that this is likely to cause some problems in local self-government units, given their property status, but so far, local self-government units have been paying state lawyers, the State's Attorney's Office for Representativeship. Therefore, I do not think it will affect the functioning of local self-government more. The second major part of the amendments concerns internal surveillance and monitoring of the work of the State's Attorney's Office and provides for the establishment of a special department in the State's Attorney's Office to deal with the supervision of work and education and the monitoring of the quality of legal and other experts. This is where the mandatory professional training is introduced. We also heard the remarks that this is also questionable whether the introduction of compulsory training is contrary to rights, the interests of employees. However, without active participation in professional training, we cannot expect the Deputy State Attorney or State Attorney to monitor any changes that are important for proper and legal work. In addition, the bill also developed the evaluation process by proposing not only a new range of evaluations, but also a whole system of new measurable criteria, and the attorney general will provide specific instructions for the development of criteria, evaluations and monitoring of the work of state lawyers. A provision is also important, which says that due to the growing importance of international co-operation, and especially because of the increasing takeover of international agreements in the State's Attorney's Office, the establishment of an international legal assistance and cooperation department should certainly be accepted. New powers and advisers are also introduced. In the present practice, namely, that advisers are under-used, and in particular civil law departments, and the proposal allows advisers to represent the charge in a reduced procedure and to represent in civil cases in small-value disputes. It is clear that there should be no excess of powers here, and it is also good to add in the final proposal articles which specifically determine the conduct of state attorneys in criminal matters, and in civil law cases where these issues are sufficiently and well-determined. Finally, the bill introduces property cards which certainly constitute significant means in the prevention and possibility of corruption and abuse on the one hand, and on the other hand, in the case of unwarranted calls in connection with acquired assets, its transparency is the best means of rejecting such charges. Finally, he would mention that this law introduces a mandatory security check in the process of appointing state lawyers. So far in the old law, it wasn't an obligation. This was an option, but now the attorney general is obliged to request a written report from the candidates to agree to a security check in accordance with specific regulations. I think this is good, given that the state's attorney has decided on the items in which he comes into contact with the mass of classified information and that it is good to carry out this check, not a political check, but a check in view of his work so far, the environment in which he was moving, and other circumstances that pose a security risk to the State's Attorney's office. All in all, I think it's a good bill that needs to be passed anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82246	Thank you, dear colleague Ivas. It's my dear colleague Peronja's turn. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82247	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister and Associates, colleagues and colleagues. It is also this proposal, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, that important laws should actually be dealt with systematically, in particular regarding the judicial system and how certain proposals from the previous reading must be respected. Therefore, this paper proposed simply concludes that the work of state lawyers is to be done effectively, that it must be reviewed, that it must be in the spirit of the time in which we live and work. I will therefore point out only some of those things that are very important in practice that the cases are resolved as quickly and as quickly as possible, and also the State's Attorney's Office if they have not given an opinion on work within 30 days, then it should be considered to be a positive solution so far. However, this amendment always obliges the State Attorney's Office to give its opinion within 30 days of receipt of all necessary documentation. In practice, this step means a lot especially when it comes to serious cases, serious parties. We also began to look at other laws on how this is being resolved and current developments, so the main state attorney's office is always asking candidates for a written statement that they agree to security checks. No reasonable candidate will refuse and give consent, and the approach is then quite normal and sure to check for a person who will do such a responsible job. It can also be understood for a faster and more efficient settlement of the case, and a reference to work in the State's higher-level attorney's office, respecting the complexity of work on individual cases similar to the Law on Courts, which has proved that the reference to work in a higher court or in a more State's attorney's office significantly increased efficiency and reduced labour gaps. So we watch the courts do it. If this has been brought to life in practice so far, why not also use such a provision and resolution in the State's Attorney's Office. It is also important to highlight certain parallels when it comes to lawyer trainees, public notary practitioners what they can solve, and what a counselor can do. In particular, it has been observed that advisers, senior advisors in the State's Attorney's Office, are not sufficiently used in civil and administrative departments, and that by not being able to carry out certain tasks in less complex cases, their preparation for the work of the Deputy State Attorney has actually been disabled. It is therefore effective and meaningful to prepare, to train at the post of deputies and to enable deputy state attorneys to make their jobs easier. They can deal with more complex and difficult cases. It is necessary to allow advisers to be able to represent the indictment in a shortened procedure, and in civil matters to represent the debate in disputes of less value, with restrictions on their powers. In municipal, in the case of municipal state attorneys, the value is stated. Both the county as well as the law enforcement officers are limited to not being able to represent in the cases, in the higher cases of the dispute, as well as when the sentence of prison was prevented. That gives us even more reason to just confirm that both the Ethics Code of State's Attorneys and Deputy State's Attorneys is being made to the end. And also to commit state lawyers to the property card that has been introduced to officials and also to parliamentary representatives and judges, and finally we need to learn that when we enter responsible public duties we can and must show what we have, how much we have gained and how there has been a change in certain assets. ... would be the only thing more significant than that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can write what is and how the change is made and write it in the property card very precisely and well. It doesn't always have to indicate a value but certainly a specific object yes. In fact, it has been shown that a kind of centralisation and harmonisation of the competences of civil-government departments, municipal, county and state attorneys has very precisely determined exactly when it comes to civil cases, administrative cases and criminal cases, and that no matter how many state attorneys it is that they have to be formed right now departments because every state attorney has special departments and whether only a state attorney or a state attorney and more deputies are involved in this prosecution. This is not only for the purpose of overseeing the work and monitoring of state attorneys' affairs but also to finally establish teamwork in civil administrative cases and criminal cases, because always a certain and civil litigation can imply both a certain criminal act and vice versa, a collegiate resolution or a team consular. It is important to impose one practice in order to exchange experiences and how it could indeed be counted that the State's Attorney's Office exclusively cares about state property. And it is important to point out that local self-government, regional and regional has different interests in the Republic of Croatia and when thousands of lawyers are registered in the Republic of Croatia that it is the easiest thing to hire a lawyer to represent a municipality, a county or a city with clearly defined powers, instructions and contracts and that in the case of poor conduct of a job with a lawyer, a contract can be broken, compensation for damages and that finally and a lawyer's office is placed in one normal position, not always resenting any labels or not to highlight the attorneyship as the same important activity in our judicial system. There's no good judiciary if there's no good and no lawyer. There are no good judges and vice versa if there's no lawyer, no lawyer without a good court. I believe that this is another step forward, as well as compensation to the deputy when after 5 years he is not appointed again to this post. He has the right to pay compensation for six months, that is, until he starts a job elsewhere. Legal certainty should be created for every job, and so on and for what is truly considered one of the levers, how and how to develop consciousness, judicial awareness, how to protect public interests, state property, especially when it comes to establishing the limits of maritime goods. And now it is shown that this way of determining very complex and long-term results that the just established limits of maritime goods protect state property or universal property and that it should be in the future as well. The final draft law should be supported. He introduced modern practice. I believe this is how our ministry, the minister with the associates, will continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82248	Thank you very much, dear colleague Peronja. There is a respected colleague, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82249	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I must point out immediately that I support personally as our colleague Mato Arlović said on behalf of the SDP Club that he also supports the entire club this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Lawyership. Namely, just open the first page and the first article and change. It is quite clear that he was trained, based on years of experience, minute work and aspirations and the desire of the State's attorney himself to perfect his work, to advance it, to be on track and to be at the height of the demands of constitutional and legal tasks, and to make better solutions. And that's not at all controversial. There is hardly any objection, or provision, to any object, except perhaps one relating to property cards, so I will immediately and specifically say something about it. In fact, it's pointless to submit these cards if they're going to be in the bunker of the Justice Department itself. Because the point of the property cards is that they are, but it doesn't say anything here, nor is it an obligation, so it's later that the Ministry's position whether or not it will do it. Because it's a legal obligation here. Unlike the situation in which the other state officials are located where everything is momentary in the law itself, and not by any regulation solved. So this is an important novelty. And besides, it's a sensitive thing because no one in the world has ever done that before. But given the situation in which the judicial authority is located and requires the public to do so, including the opposition and consent of the large majority's judicial officials themselves, so that this provision would make sense at all, and it is, and the point is that it reaches the public, then it is necessary to do so. Whether it will be through the Ministry itself or through the body responsible for other state officials, it is less important. But the point is, all these provisions are to get to the public. But equally, obligations are made, or consequences for a state attorney, or a deputy who does not. So it should be added here that a deputy who does not do so within the prescribed time limit as defined here makes it more difficult to do so. Then that makes sense, and that's exactly what's on the verge of a severity of such a norm that we're not just kidding around. However, let's just go and say something about the law itself, that is, the time and situation when here we are now discussing this final proposal of the Law. It is a good proposal and it is not good that, and somehow it seems to me that always in the past term and now, all the good legal solutions when it comes to the judiciary somehow get the circumstances always happen somehow in the evening and out of the public echo. When the affairs that take place in the judiciary are then they are revealed immediately in broad daylight. It's never discussed in the evening. Why is this important? Not because the public here listens to what and how anyone is talking about this but to show really one common, real will to want to improve, so, and the work of the State's Attorney's Office in particular, I would say, which it has such constitutional and legal task. Not only constitutional and legal but it is indeed one of the most difficult and sensitive duties that are at all difficult to imagine in our country and in general and in other countries. And in our country, it's particularly difficult because our State's Attorney's office does not only pursue the perpetrators of criminal acts but also has to protect state property, and nowhere in the world does it have this difficult task. Which is why it is very important and why it is good to do so even though it is a painful task for them and I believe that the time will come soon when we will have to relieve him of these duties and when he will be able to focus all his strength only on persecuting the perpetrators and in search of perpetrators of criminal acts and providing clues. And that's why it seems very important to me that we give support to these people who are often exposed and their own lives, given the weight of the task they are engaged in, in which they are obliged to engage. But on this occasion and recently, it should be noted that the signifying words of the chief state attorney, Mr Mladen Bajic, who said in the situation in Croatia. It is something that we must all imagine well what is happening and how the work of the State's Attorney's Office is burdened in this way. In power lately, but it's been going on for a while now, I'd say for years, the last years of the war on criminal charges. So the headlines are criminal charges against this one. The fact that she was rejected doesn't interest anyone anymore. And the State Attorney's Office is exhausted in malicious and irresponsible criminal charges and abuses. The abuse of state bodies I think is something worthy of persecution, but little is being persecuted by such a person even though by the 1990s there have been such cases because it may be difficult to prove someone's malice. But equally, it shouldn't discourage citizens who report either anonymously, it doesn't matter at all, that a crime has been committed. But right now, the political war prevents and delays criminal charges because it is also a formal application by which state authorities have to spend time, spending valuable resources because whenever it is put into effect by any state body, and especially repressively, it costs taxpayers extremely. And in the end, they are deconcentrated and destabilized in their basic function, in search of the perpetrators of serious crimes in their own, serious crimes and those most sensitive in the area of economic crime. That's why I think you should take this message seriously, which he said through the media, the attorney general. This time before, I will say one more sentence about this, when all eyes are against the public and very critical of the judiciary, and in this part of the judiciary, the judiciary, i.e., the State's Attorney's Office. I have already said that little that can be objected to by this one minute law, that is, the amendments to the Law already existing, which has already been well-organized and where it has proved necessary in 2001 to bring the attorney general together. Thus, it is also good effects, especially when the state property is in danger and generally public well-being and the availability of public goods and even from local self-government units where supervision is needed. But I agree here and with the opinion of the State's Attorney's office, and I don't need to be represented, not even through power of attorney. However, what we expected, and what would be good, given that it was a long time ago, in 2001, or 2003, a working group was formed even during the former authorities led by Professor Krapec, who was to prepare revolutionary changes so that the final investigation as an outdated stage of criminal proceedings no longer burdens criminal persecution. It assumes a greater role of the State's Attorney's Office. So, even in that one I would say to visionary views, i.e. one full reform of criminal law on... criminal persecution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've seen it before, I don't think there's any obstacle, but it's not enough to just talk about it. I think we've spent a lot of time and it's just the State's Attorney's Office becoming an operational body. The latest changes to the CAP that took place were supposed to be a bypass in the sense that the final investigation would disappear. It also assumes that a part of the executive authority must be prepared to give up any authority, disown its sovereignty, or parity against the judicial authority, or the State Attorney's Office itself, and be placed under its domain. That is, persecution and prosecution against the perpetrators of a crime is a kind of war against crime, where there cannot be two parallel lines. And as much as we want by law to one or the other, the Law on the Police or the Law on the State's Attorney's Office or the CAP to sort of reconcile and focus them, bring them closer until there's one commander who assumes here and these changes go, that it's a state lawyer who will then have the right to binding orders to the police who will then be in that section and segment will not be effective. That means these last changes. That's why we were expecting in this situation when it was three or four years ago that we would be getting changes to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office that will go on this particular trail, parallel to the amendment of the Law on Police and the New Law on Criminal Procedure. I think that and the public are already so prepared, that the public expects it and the profession has already prepared itself a little bit and there is no, therefore, reason...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82250	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82251	...that we're stalling with it. First of all, I say, what's out there and what the public expects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82252	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? Yeah. The word is Mrs. Anna Lovrin, Minister of Justice. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here in the end I can only really thank you for this discussion. Thank you for supporting the law. Some changes and some constructive remarks will be tried if there is an amendment and inserted into this text because it is a final proposal. I just want to clarify, there have been complaints about representing that local units do not have the resources in the budget to ensure representation, so it might be better if I stayed in the State's Attorney's Office. Of course, that is also relevant because the State Attorney's Office has, in this case, represented by the authority of the local unit with the payment of legal fees. Secondly, as far as these remarks are concerned that no important changes are known, I could almost agree with that, but here we went with the same definition and the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest relating to state officials who have the exact same formula that in the course of the term of office if there were significant changes then it is the end of the year, so it is the exact same formulation. And of course it's not said that they're not public, the cards will be in the Justice Department, not protected by a code of secrecy. And it was also a matter of what happened to the deadline. We have estimated that a transitional deadline should be achieved, given that individual units of local self-government and the area had a fairly large number of cases in representation by power and that they needed to put on one deadline so that they could move to self-representation. Here I propose that this law be passed and thanked for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82254	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are now going to stop working for the day. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and then we will see what we will do further during the day. Thank you very much for your participation. Goodbye and good night!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82255	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. The adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs at least 77. We have a few amendments. Minister, please. Amendment to one of the Legislative Committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82256	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82257	It becomes an integral part of the law. The other Justice Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82258	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82259	It becomes an integral part of the law. Third of the same Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82260	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82261	It's becoming an integral part. Fourth Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82262	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82263	It's becoming an integral part. The Fifth Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82264	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82265	It's becoming an integral part. The sixth of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82266	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82267	It becomes an integral part of the law. Seven of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82268	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82269	It becomes an integral part of the law. The eighth representative of Ivan Tomljanović and Drazen Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82270	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82271	It becomes an integral part of the law. Nine of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82272	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82273	It becomes an integral part of the law. The tenth. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82274	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-01-25-0.u82275	It becomes an integral part of the law. Please, let's get on with it. So, I need 77 votes for it. We can vote. The result? Unanimity with 84 votes for the proposed law in the text as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted. ... [[The beginning of the session has not been recorded.]]
