ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. A group of MPs submitted an Interpol on the work of the Government in the area of the use of pre-accession European Union funds motivated by two things. The first conclusion this Parliament has made is on the necessity of reporting to the Parliament on the use of pre-accession funds, projects related to funds from pre-accession funds that the government has committed to reporting to Parliament six months. The second is the fact that preparations for the possibility of using funds from pre-accession funds and later convergence funds in Croatia are de facto unknown to this Assembly here are not reported. We know what's in the papers, what's in slow motion from the law that's being passed here, what's being used or for certain projects. However, the parliament is not known or informed of the use of the money used so far, the money so far withdrawn. The main conclusion reached in Parliament was not respected. As a result, this group of HNS and SDP representatives consider it necessary to open a discussion on the government's work on the use of pre-accession funds, since the pre-accession funds of the European Union are not used as the basis of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not implemented the conclusion that I have quoted at the outset. The conclusion was made on 6 October 2005. And on the basis of this conclusion so far, no report on the use of pre-accession funds has been submitted in this Parliament. Representatives request that the Government of the Republic of Croatia submit, in its light, a full report in the Interpelation on the use of pre-accession European Union funds with specific reference to planned and unused programmes, withdrawn and unused funds, as well as possible fraud and irregularities in the process of using funds for the period from 22 December 2003 to 23 February 2007. Just to remind the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 13 February 2003, it concluded a Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of a Central Funding and Contracting Unit. This is namely an institution that should also be involved in the use of funds, preparation or evaluation of projects. And on 6 October 2004, the European Commission adopted a pre-accession strategy for us. The pre-accession strategy also provides that the Republic of Croatia will use funds from all three funds in the period 2005-2006, so for structural adjustment, for infrastructure and agriculture in the total amount, as reported in this Interpellation, of 245m euros. As we know, and we learned from the government's response, it added 7 million, so now it's 252 million euros. This is exactly what Parliament adopted on 6 October 2005. The Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of the National Fund between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission and parallel to that decision, i.e. by confirming that memorandum, has also reached the conclusion that I quoted at the beginning, so the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will submit a full report every 6 months to the Croatian Parliament on the use of pre-accession funds of the European Union with a special reference to those moments that I have mentioned here. Now what happened here? The conclusion of the mandatory six-month report by the Croatian Parliament was not respected by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We haven't received a single report yet. And now after this impelation, after she was put on the agenda came the report. We have received a response from the government, or the government's opinion on this Interpellation in which it mentions three points, I will briefly look back at them here. The first Parliament knew because it passed laws relating to individual projects in response to the Government on page 4. One of the main reasons why it was concluded that Parliament was given a report on the use of pre-accession funds is that MPs and the public are not guessing, guessing, trying to reconstruct the laws and decisions that Parliament makes at different times as well as what pre-accession funds are used. It is precisely to avoid guessing and guessing from other activities of the Parliament, but to have in one place a clear picture of how much money... and for what they have been used for and what results we have been looking for and for this reason Parliament has reached this conclusion. So this argument is unsatisfactory and completely missed. The second emphasis in this response to the government is that the government had nothing to report so far because nothing was happening. This is even from the government's reply that it is not true, because it first says nothing happened until the end or the other half of 2006 that, on the other hand, in the list of those laws and conclusions that Parliament has made and from which we should know how the funds are used, it is seen that some of these projects have been initiated, or decisions taken in the spring of 2006, so even the projects themselves had something to report after the first six months of 2006 and not to say, of course, that the whole process of accreditation of our agency is something that is of interest to the Parliament and has something to report. Thus, the fact that some projects started in late 2006 did not eliminate those that started early or in the spring of 2006, and in particular did not eliminate the fact that the planned funds for PHARE in 2005, for ISPA in 2005/2006. and for SAPARD 2006. So the very fact that the planned funds from these three funds and the government's opinion is that projects are approved, we ask here what happened to that report in mid-2006 that money was spent, how money was planned and that there were no projects until the end of 2006, as the government report says despite the fact that it only testifies that there were projects in the first half of 2006. And the third point of one moment that concerns the government's response to this interpretation is that the only thing that can be clearly seen what has been done during this period is that at the central state level for the purpose of administering projects and cooperation with European funds, 293 additional people are employed. So with what people have already been in these jobs, 293 people have been employed from 2004 to 2006, and at this point in the business of co-operation with funds in the central state, therefore not decentralised, not by county, which would have its logic but in the central state at the moment, 513 people are doing. Of those 513 people, until this interpretation came on the agenda, we didn't get a single word of what they were doing, how much money they were working for, who they worked for, what they were working against and what they were going to do in the future. 50 people in the central state work for comparison in Slovenia. The second is a regional, central state of 50 people. Let me remind you of the situation we're in right now. 2005./2006. Croatia has been set up, i.e. a total withdrawal from the European funds of 252m euros. Of which, according to what can be reconstructed by the central state so far, so up to what can now be seen, it has used 24% or around 70m euros. For projects at local level, this is particularly interesting, so for local and regional project levels, a total of 3.18% of the money has been reduced, so 8m euros. Overall, according to this data so far, it has not been withdrawn from the amount available to 172m euros. So these 70 at the state level and 8 at local and county level have left in funds intended for Croatia if it is able to use them, 172m euros. Why? How? What's up with that? We're asking you to answer that question. The additional problem or the difficult environment in this case is that, at the same time, the European Union delegation in the Republic of Croatia has positively assessed and accepted 250 projects from local level. So it's not that there weren't any projects they'd want to finance. They positively valued 250 projects from the local level. However, due to the slowness, ineffectiveness and lack of care of the central government, and the full centralisation of the decision-making of the money available has not been withdrawn. I think that's the most serious indication of the unsustainability of this kind of strict centralization. Because if people at local and county level have 250 projects that the European Commission in Croatia says people can finance, we have 172m euros that we have not withdrawn and nothing. So no, don't use something that we can pull for which we have projects that are positively rated, then obviously something with that model and that system is wrong. The use of European funds in other countries that are also mentioned in the government's response, to briefly remind me, is the next. I have here data, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia. At the level of what they agreed and signed the percentage of the use ranged from 85.9 so 86 to roughly what they could use, it was the Lithuanians, to the least that the Romanians used 66.6% of what they could, they signed it. Of what they really reported they used, so they took the money, signed the contracts, but they actually realised that the best realizations had Hungarians 73.15% of what they could and the weakest Romanians 57.11%. So it's true and other countries haven't used 100% of those, this is just for example. in the money from the PHARE program, they didn't take advantage of what, all they could, that's to be expected. However, our use for now from this data we have is 32%. That's how much nobody's taken advantage of. So you're not looking for 100%, but you're looking for something that would match at least how much of the interests of projects and this country. The central funding and settlement unit established shall be responsible for carrying out the tenders. Obviously, the system is slow and inefficient, the time it takes from applying to signing a contract in the organisation of this administration is between 9 and 12 months. Now I think that's enough in itself to talk about what's going on here. I underline that these coins cannot be transferred, cannot be used beyond the financial period or budget period, so they will not be transferred anywhere. We used what we used. For example, there is one fund that we have not touched at all because of inefficientness even though we have paid membership fees for 2006. It is the Marco Polo Fund from which the road transport transfer programmes are financed to other forms, ships, railways, etc. So we paid the membership fee for 2006 to transfer, so we could use, withdraw, money from the fund for projects that transfer traffic from road to other forms, but we didn't pull anything. So, we sent the money, and we didn't benefit from it because we didn't run through Marco Polo because the Parliament wasn't given ratification, so ratification in the Parliament didn't come to a contract with the Marco Polo Fund. What is it, I don't think I use the worse word for sure doesn't care. So the money paid for the 2006 membership fee was thrown out the window. As taught by the 2007 example, we didn't even pay membership fees, so we wouldn't have any trouble writing projects or ratifying something, and if we can ratify it in the Parliament, if it comes to us, we'll ratify it, maybe we'll do something since 2008. If we continue this way, people can happen to us that after entering the European Union we are in a position to pay more to the Union than we use the funds that are set in the Union for potential use by Croatia, as is known no one will give us and send us money from funds, no one will send us money from funds, depending on the efficiency of our administration and on the other side of the quality of projects. The very fact that 250 projects from the local and county level are approved says that it is not such a terrible problem for people to write quality projects, even if a little help would probably be more, but the slowness of the administration, and I must say the non-transparency because the fact that we need to get a report on the agenda of what is going on with these 252 million euros and where and what is being used is something about transparency, that is, the non-transparentity of the process itself. Moreover, the possibility of using money from European funds requires a completely different attitude towards the budget than we have so far. We, at the state level, and especially at the county and local level, are not de facto qualified to use the funds, we who are waiting for us and we were all pleased to see that it was mentioned in 2009 in a resolution, that is, a report in Parliament yesterday that we all advocated to make it possible for us to simply, our obstacle is not that Europe has objections, but that we are not able to do what we need to do to ensure that this whole process of integration in the Union has some meaning and benefits for us. As a member, we will have approximately 900m euros from funds that we will be able to use when we become a member. These are all funds that, where project financing requires between 25 and 50% of our participation, so on the side of a member state where some average is 33.35%. This means that we should withdraw 900m euros in the following funds or matching finds, following funds in Croatia would take us between 300m and 450m euros, depending on how much we plan to withdraw and what we consider capable of. This is not even in the stars at present to suggest that we would now be able to monitor projects and finances from the European Union at the level of the projects covered by the possibility of funding, instead of putting in those projects, or to place in specific accompanying funds, in order to be able to monitor at the level of the state, the projects and finances that we receive from the European Union, but also important at the level of the counties and cities. At this point, budgets at county and city level are approximately enough for one or two mediocre projects for which we could get, say, 2/3 of the money from, or even in some cases, money from the European Union. Our situation, which we also wanted to point to in some ways, is a complete indolence as to the Parliament and the public in reporting on the use of European funds. But otherwise in the report on the use of funds from the budget is this situation, it is additionally difficult if or serious if you will, if we look at the global survey of the transparency of the budget carried out in Croatia by the Institute of Public Finance, which assesses the overall transparency of budget spending. Therefore, the adoption and spending of the budget is used by 6 indicators that assess overall transparency, so familiarity through Parliament with how it is brought and why it is planned and how the budget is spent. Out of possible 100% of Croatia has 42%, which means that some information is available to the public by their classification. However, when we come to an item of information on the spending of the state budget based on half-yearly reports, in other words, on the basis of half-yearly reports, how much the public knows about how the budget was spent, how much it was informed, whether it was spent on what was planned, our score is 100% zero. So, non-existent or total non-transparentity. In such conditions, the fact that we don't know what happened to 252 million, and we don't entirely know what happened to those 178 or how much we have left, is further worrying. Now, we are both in this House and in different government bodies and in the public and in various instances constantly discussing how, why do we lack public support for Croatia's entry into the European Union? And how do different factors affect this, how should we organise different media campaigns, how should we present to the public what the European Union is, how should we introduce it to the European Union? And when there's a topic and what's quite clear to the public and there's not a single man who wouldn't understand it in Croatia, which is, we wouldn't have a dairy farm here if we didn't get money from European funds. We wouldn't have this school or kindergarten here and we couldn't afford it if we didn't get the money from the European funds. So something that's completely clear, transparent, visible, tangible. And as much as any media campaign and any major pomp and production contributes to the understanding that potential advantages for Croatian citizens from membership in the European Union and from the very process of approaching the European Union. That's where we're completely off schedule. So we don't use any of that, we show nothing, and we still don't use 170 and some million euros at our disposal. The situation resulting from full non-transparentity and voluntary determination of statistical regions which are the basis for determining and funding from European funds shows the additional seriousness of this problem. That is why the MPs who submitted this interpretation sought and asked for the Assembly to draw the following conclusions. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit to the Croatian Parliament the next full report on the use of pre-accession funds of the European Union with specific reference to planned and unused programmes, withdrawn and unused funds and possible fraud and irregularities in the process of using funds, no later than 14 July 2007 or ending the regular session of the Assembly. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit to the Croatian Parliament the following full report on the use of pre-accession European Union funds with specific reference to planned and unused programmes, withdrawn and unused funds and possible fraud and irregularities in the process of using funds at the latest until the disband of this Assembly. Second. The Government of the Republic of Croatia commits itself without delay to determine who is responsible for the intolerance of the report and to report it to the Croatian Parliament. And a third. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to take all necessary actions through its bodies to meet, in detail and unequivocally, legal persons and citizens in the Republic of Croatia with the possibility of funding from pre-accession European Union funds, facilitate the use of funds and provide the necessary professional assistance in the process of developing projects for the use and financing of pre-accession funds of the European Union. We propose on the basis of what has been presented here and on the basis of our own experience of all Members of Parliament and of all citizens of this country that, despite the Parliament's conclusion, you have not been respected and we have not received a single report so far, so we have not received those half-yearly reports on the use of funds. And as far as we can figure out, from what we could use, we haven't used more than 170 million of that money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87342	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87343	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, unfortunately, I'm going to correct, of course, incorrect allegations but unfortunately, it can be seen that it's completely ignorant of the fact and led to this interpretation. Comrade Pusic! First, when you talk about the report, then you can only talk about the 2003 Cards report, whose contract ended only in July 2006. That's what you could see from the government's report. And the day we discussed it at the Croatian Assembly. The other thing is, we're not trained. Thirdly, when we talk about non-transparentity, the non-transparentity information was in 2003 when you were in power. After that, he's fixed. ... You should have read the data. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, when we speak to the CARDS in 2003, it lasts until December 31st, 2009. Therefore, we withdrew 97.7% of the funds, or contracted. Therefore, do not talk about unused resources in a way that you do not know the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87344	Does a government official want to explain the government's interpretation report? Martina Dalic, State Secretary of the Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of European Union Funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87345	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. The government fully rejects this interpretation and rejects all claims made in the interpretation because the withdrawal of funds from the European Union funds in the sense that the Parliament has requested this conclusion, so in the sense of withdrawing payments and possible irregularities occurred in the second half of 2006 because the use with particular emphasis on planned and unused programmes has been withdrawn unused unused funds and any fraud and irregularities may and may be spoken of only after the expiry of the deadline for the conclusion of contracts for the execution of works and services. And the first such time-limit for the conclusion of a contract for projects financed by the CARDS programme in 2003 expired on 6 June 2006, after which a real flow of funds from the Union budget into the budget of the Republic of Croatia and, accordingly, the Ministry of Finance made up a report to the Assembly and will be discussed in the next point. The deadline for the negotiation of projects under the PHARE programme 2005 expires on 30 November this year, PHARE 2006. The next 30 November deadline for the ISPA programme, which depends individually on the project and the first such performance on December 12th of this year. The government rejects all interpretation allegations because state institutions were obliged to meet a set of requirements for self-management of pre-accession funds, which has been successfully done and done within very short periods. Therefore, in order to discuss this subject, it is also necessary to take care of the process that needs to be met so that the flow of financial resources can begin. The fact that the European Parliament made a decision after the adoption of the candidateship and candidate status of the Republic of Croatia on the right to use pre-accession funds is one thing, followed by the process of long-term preparations under the supervision and the basis of the European Commission regulations in order to actually bring about a flow of money. The decision of the European Commission on the allocation of funds for both pre-accession funds and for IPA and thus will be in structural funds does not match and does not correspond to the moment when this money can be effectively spent. Such conditions and allow me, therefore, to point out what is and what were all the preconditions that were fulfilled so that the contracts could actually be concluded on 6 June 2006. First, the approval of the Commission for projects to be financed from pre-accession programmes was required. The PHARE and ISPA programmes require that state bodies, not someone but state bodies, be presented to an appropriate state institution, which until the spring of last year was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and subsequently the Central State Office for Development Strategy and the coordination of the funds for the preparation of projects and deliveries and projects to the Commission and the outcome of approval. So, not regional bodies, not someone arbitrary, not the one who suits us, but the state bodies representative of the Republic of Croatia. The Commission's approvals are based on financial agreements. All these financial agreements have been confirmed in the House of Confirmation laws. That's not controversial information. If I may say so, I find it difficult to accept that the laws of confirmation provide comparative information. Confirmation laws contain all financial memos, all projects contain details of the projects to which they are intended, to which they are intended, how much they cost, how much co-financing they are. And precisely because of the quality and preparation of these projects, the commission has also increased funds from pre-accession funds from 245 to 252 million kuna. A parallel process of accreditation took place. Part of this accreditation process was also a confirmation of the Memorandum of Establishment of the National Fund, which reached the conclusion of the Assembly requesting information on withdrawals, payments, irregularities and the like. Accreditation is a process that requires state bodies to establish departments, employ people, make manuals based on the regulations of the European Commission through which the provisions of the regulations will be transposed into the conduct of our state bodies to learn this action, to show their knowledge to the auditors of the private sector which the Ministry of Finance engaged in in May 2005. After a positive assessment of the auditors of the private sector that all these transactions were done in a manner and in accordance with Commission regulations, accreditation was requested in July 2005. Preparations for accreditation began after getting funds somewhere in November 2004 when the government adopted an action plan. A request for accreditation was submitted for PHARE and ISPA in 2005 and the Commission approved the accreditation in February 2006. And she used those seven months from applying for accreditation to make a decision to make sure that everyone learned to do the right thing and that they knew what to do. It's hardly a matter of carelessness and incompetence. Finally, when accreditation was obtained, the European Commission also defined accreditation as a prerequisite for the transfer of the management of projects from the CARDS in 2003 and 2004 from a delegation to the Ministry of Finance to the Central Finance and Negotiation because the CARDS programme is a two-way programme. In early 2001 and 2002 and part of 2003, a centralised delegation was conducted. During the first half of last year's projects, contracts made in half of the project documentation were passed on to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance, however, successfully completed the negotiation process for the CARDS, which will be discussed in the next point. From the above, this first six-month deadline for which it is possible to provide the Parliament with the information requested in that conclusion began in mid-2006. But let me also comment on a few completely incorrect and incorrect allegations from the very interpretation. That the government has not submitted any pages of the report to the Parliament except for the financial memos and the laws that I have mentioned. On 18 May 2006, the Assembly adopted a Law on a system for implementing the European Union programme and on a system for implementing projects financed from loans and gifts. This Law is thoroughly discussed in the Assembly, and it is essentially a further development of the memorandum on the establishment of a national fund, although international contracts do not require laws on their implementation in our legal system. Although international contracts are directly applicable to this law, further defined, strengthened and established and rights and obligations, the responsibilities of the persons and institutions working in this system. It is hardly possible, then, to agree with a claim in the interpretation that the Government has not submitted a single page. The government is also working to strengthen it systematically. And building a fund management system and that makes one of its most important priorities. In addition to the above-mentioned law which did not have all the countries, but Croatia has decided to... The law further defines this system, rights and obligations of persons and institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The number of people working on these projects has increased. I wouldn't take that as a weakness. An increased number of persons is the result of the need for these transactions to be carried out in the manner prescribed by the regulations. I repeat again. PHARE and ISPA pre-accession programmes, the next IPA pre-accession programme, as well as structural funds, are implemented directly through the application of the European Commission regulations. They are not implemented according to our regulations and therefore this number of people reflects the increase of the number of people in the central funding and bargaining unit that was 7. 7 people cannot review all the tender documentation for more than 140 projects. Which, part of which is in the tendering process, and part of which will take place in the tendering process. The Saphard agency was founded. There is no excessive and almost no flexibility in the Saphard agency because it simply needs to be organised in the way that the common agricultural policy requires. Because that's what the Saphard agency is for. Therefore, the number of persons employed by the SAPHAARD agency and in the administration for, which is the administrative body for SAPHAARD, was 80 at the end of last year. It is therefore incorrect to argue that other countries are doing these jobs with very few people because the future number of people working on these jobs will actually need to increase further both at the central level and locally. The "Cards" programme is agreed on 98.4% of the funds so I repeat this claim of carelessness, oh, it can't, I couldn't agree on the government's behalf with that. Furthermore, the text of the interpretation states that the government has no intention of bringing the citizens closer to the system of funds or helping them prepare quality projects. In full, and in particular, I reject the indication that the transparency of the whole procedure is being called into question because each step in the negotiation process was accompanied by detailed procedure and documentation. All persons, all bodies and all institutions operating in this system shall work according to the manuals given in the interpretation's explanation, in a total of 11. Any step to be taken in these matters shall be checked by the delegation of the European Commission. And the entire system is continuously under the supervision of the European Commission’s auditors. Their last visit took place over the past two months. So you can't talk about intransparency because it's one of the segments of the state administration that's constantly under the glass. And as regards irregularities other than the fact that there is a "e-mail" address of "irregularity.EU@mfin.hr" in which every person, it is a question of the ability that any person who considers and notices the irregularity of this irregularity also to this e-mail address reports and the official... Madam Vice President, I apologize, but let me say this to the end. The question of this e-mail address is not a question of someone's joke, but it is a matter of both the question and the requested procedure that any person working in this system, except who knows which officials in the Ministry are in charge of irregularities that can report to him personally, and anonymously any irregularities he sees reporting to an officer for irregularities or to a national certification officer who is a State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance. Finally, there is no claim that the government has no intention of bringing the funds closer to the Croatian citizens. More than 300 different seminars were held in the framework of programmes and education involving more than 5,000 participants from the state administration, units of local and regional self-government, governmental, non-governmental organisations, crafts and commercial chambers. In the past 4 months alone, more than 30 workshops and seminars have been organised and new seminars and county educations are organised in the coming period in collaboration with the Chamber of Commerce. A number of printed materials have been printed and distributed. Part of these materials in the form of leaflets on "PHARE", "ISPAs" and "IPAs" were also delivered to you. In order to promote and prepare potential users for the "SAPARD" the Ministry of Agriculture held 31 workshops. Croatia, Croatian Institute for Agricultural and Advisory Service 166 lectures for two hundred and eighty-three, thirty-two students. A lot of information is available on websites. In view of all the above and the fact that the use of pre-accession Union funds in terms of repression began in the second half of 2006 on which the report was submitted to the Assembly, the Government has taken the necessary action to build a fast and quality system for fund management we propose that the Croatian Parliament rejects the interpretation. Thank you very much. [[/Intruders: That's right!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87346	Correction of the incorrect quote by Vice-President Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87347	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Among the various incorrect allegations, the State Secretary said, among other things, that it was not true that the Assembly had not received, received information about the use because it had signed, or passed, a memorandum and different laws. Madam Secretary of State, we have reached a conclusion, so we have reached a conclusion, not to conclude from the agenda points that would be on the agenda without a conclusion. So we don't want to, and we're asking you to conclude that you're not pointing us to agenda points that would be on the agenda and like this because they have to be on the agenda, but we're asking you to tell us what you're doing. So it's not true that we got and had information because we were passing laws and memos, but we didn't have information because we didn't have a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87348	The Committee on Finance and the State Budget Chairman of the Committee is a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87349	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what the Committee on Finance and the State Budget says on this subject. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 70th session held on 22 March 2007 the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the field of the use of pre-accession European Union funds proposed by 21 representatives of the Croatian Parliament on 23 February 2007. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the inauguration in question as a parent working body. The introduction of the proposal for this interpretation is that the interpretation in question is proposed for the reason that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not implement the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament adopted on 6 October 2005 with the Law on the Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of national funds between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission. In this conclusion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit a full report every 6 months on the use of pre-accession European Union funds with special reference to planned and unused programmes, withdrawn unused funds, and possible fraud and irregularities in the process of using funds. The present interpretation also proposes new conclusions by the applicant, which, in addition to the full report on the use of pre-accession funds of the European Union, requires the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish responsibility for the non-execution of the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, and to meet all legal persons and citizens in the Republic of Croatia with the possibility of funding and pre-accession funds of the European Union and provide them with professional assistance in the process of developing projects for the use of funding from these funds. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed, held a written opinion, i.e. a report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the interpretation in question, in which the Government of Croatia rejects all the allegations from the interpretation because the use of EU pre-accession funds has started in the second half of 2006. In fact, the deadline for the conclusion of a contract for projects financed by the CARDS in 2003 expired on 6 June 2006, after which the funds from the EU budget started to be added to the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Accordingly, the first report, based on the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on 5 October 2005, can only be drawn up for the second half of 2006. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is preparing the report in question, which we have already received in accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee held its opinion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should have informed the Croatian Parliament of the dynamics of the conclusion in question within 6 months of the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on 6 October 2006. In addition, the debate stressed that the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the interpretation in question should focus primarily on an explanation that would indicate the difficulties arising from the failure to comply with the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, especially because, according to the information provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the requested report will be as already delivered and the subject matter is the following point. Most members of the board supported the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to refuse the interpretation in question. In addition, in writing, the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that all activities were undertaken for the rapid and quality construction of a system for the management and use of EU pre-accession funds. This system of pre-accession funds has been continuously supervised by the European Commission and the European Commission delegation, and the possibility of fraud and irregularities in the use of funds from pre-accession funds has been reduced to a minimum. The public is regularly informed of all activities related to the governance system and the implementation of the EU's pre-accession assistance programme. In addition, the Croatian Parliament confirmed international legal acts governing the use of the EU programme in Croatia, and adopted the Law on a system of implementation of the European Union, based on which representatives are informed of preparations for the use of pre-accession funds. After the debate on the proposed interpretation was held, 3 board members voted, while 5 board members were against the impediment. The following conclusion is therefore proposed. Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Croatian Parliament in the area of pre-accession funds of the European Union, proposed by 21 representatives of the Croatian Parliament, is rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87350	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of the HNS respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87351	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On 6 October 2005, we had on the agenda the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of a National Fund between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission. In the light of this law offered by the Government to the Parliament, among other things, as the main objectives to be achieved by its adoption or adoption, it was said that an effective and transparent system of financial management of European funds would be established in accordance with existing European rules. The law includes: opening a bank account, receiving funds from the European Union and transferring them to the regional implementing agencies, establishing a monitoring and recording system for those funds, preparing requests for withdrawal from the European Union, controlling payment requests from the implementing agencies, preparing financial reports and other necessary documents in accordance with the requirements of the European Union for the implementation of the control and control systems of those funds, establishing a European system for reporting and archiving documents under European rules. These were the objectives for which this Memorandum and its confirmation in parliament should result after adoption. As part of the debate on the document, clearly stressing that we will vote in favour of the Memorandum of the Croatian People's Party's Club proposed, a representative of the Government accepted and the Parliament accepted the conclusion that we had promised the Government of the Republic of Croatia every 6 months to submit a report to Parliament on projects, appropriations, notified projects, withdrawn funds and possible illegalities or failures in the use of these funds. So that conclusion exists and it is not disputed for anyone except the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the final review of this debate, the government was then represented in Parliament by State Secretary Mrs Dalic, quoted from the phonogram, said: "I think, therefore, in the report which will be submitted within 6 months on progress in this process, it will actually be seen clearly.". Therefore, in the final word, the State Secretary reiterated the accepted obligation to present the first report before Parliament within 6 months. 6.4, 6 April 2006 was the first deadline for the first report. You probably remember then the government sent that first report that looked like this, and then we had a debate here and we accepted it. You remember that, don't you? The second report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was like this, came in 6.10.2006. And then again, one day in Parliament, we held a debate about him and accepted him. Since there was no third report, then we decided to Interpol because we simply believe that the contents of these two reports were not satisfactory. What have we written in the Interpellation, what have we proposed to Parliament? We believe there is a need to open the debate because there were no reports. The report was not raped because the government accepted such a conclusion. We believe in the Interpellation clearly written that the government does not respect Parliament's conclusion. And thirdly, we proposed to the government, we proposed to the Government to submit a report as part of the Opinion on Interpellation. Neither did the Government accept it, and within the framework of the opinion or the Interpellation report, it refuses to report but to submit it about two weeks after receiving the Interpelation. Look at point 3. Interpletions. We suggested that this first report come in response to the government's text of the Interpellation. Even the government didn't want to do it, it's doing a special report. It's government law. However, whether it is respect for Parliament's conclusion is to judge it yourself. And... We are proposing only three short points of conclusion which would oblige the government to come to a second report before the summer break, because we only have one now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to come again before Parliament disbanding and before parliamentary elections with its report as a sort of inventory of this term of office of the government and parliament. The government rejects all three proposals. What does that mean? That both before the summer break and at the end and before the disband of this assembly and the term of office of this government, there will be no final report. Why? Is there any reason why the government would not give the inventory and the reported programmes, the funds used, the progress and the benefits of Croatia to which the money coming from Europe has been achieved. I agree with Madam Secretary of State that a large number of people are needed because it's a serious business. Well, those 500 and a few people must have the right and opportunity to present their successes to Parliament. They also have the right to inform citizens of the Republic of Croatia that after 4 years of our term of office we are undermining significant information about how material, financial benefits for Croatia are in the process of approaching, and before Croatia's membership in the European Union. What did the government write in its statement? The government doesn't find the basis for Interpol. So we found the basics. We didn't even ask the government to look for grounds for impellation. We found the basis for the Interpletion. The government completely rejects all the allegations from Interpol. What does the Interpellation say? That the Parliament has reached the conclusion that the government must report on. The government says it rejects that assumption. What does it mean that the Parliament's conclusion is gone? Or that it wasn't a six-month deadline? Because even that quote from the Interpellation Government refuses, it completely rejects it. So it wasn't a six-month deadline. What was the deadline if it wasn't six months? The government filed a report, but we didn't get it. Because we've established in the Interpellation that there was no report. The government refuses that claim. I assume the government gave the report but did not come to Parliament's agenda. And the fourth question. Does the Government feel, by rejecting these allegations from the Interpol, that it should not respect Parliament's conclusions? Because if we are calling for a conclusion and we are looking for this report, and the government says that it rejects all the allegations from the Interpol, so the government has rejected our assumption that the government must respect Parliament's conclusions. I don't know why you're nervous. I know it's an awkward subject for you, but be patient, I'll get to the bottom of it, and then you'll have the opportunity to say everything. I understand your anxiety, but don't make it public, it's not appropriate for Members of Parliament, you know. Last night, the European Parliament discussed Croatia. He brought, confirmed the report, the resolution, gave the positive sides of the process so far, but also something that Croatia should do even more in the future, even better and better. If I remember one of the obligations made by the European Parliament well, and it seems to me that I will quote well, both the authorities and the opposition say that we must make it even more clear to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in more detail, to present the benefits of Croatia that they will have in membership in the European Union. That's what it says in that document. And we are all happy that such a document was adopted yesterday in Parliament. But the same provision, this recommendation, that message from Brussels to Croatia does not suit us. Any better arguments. To prepare citizens who will come to a referendum to decide on Croatia's entry into the European Union than this data, how many millions of euros have come, come or come to Croatia and before it becomes a full member of the European Union. Isn't that information, whether these projects and that benefit are owned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Who will help inform the citizens of this benefit? Who will be the one who now takes responsibility for the referendum if we treat them that way. This information and this report has not only been requested for our sake in Parliament, but because of those citizens we constantly assure and remind, the decision on Croatia's entry into the European Union will not be taken by anyone else but by them, and therefore you citizens will benefit from it, and it should not be all of them whether the government has withdrawn and whether Croatia has used 250m euros of possible or 50m euros. Are we ready at the time of Croatia's entry into the European Union to use and structural funds not pre-accession but structural? Have we made any decisions in this country so that Croatia can make the maximum use of these funds, because now we have about a deadline to enter, we know and we have learned a lot. It is important to the government that it rejects all the allegations of interpretation, not to accept any new obligation, especially at the end of the term of office, to give the final report only because these requirements come from opposition lines. I can't understand that. And this debate wouldn't have happened if the report had come. Wasn't the first report able to provide an overview of the activities that had taken place, even in the preparatory phase until the establishment of all these services of the state that had been prepared in that function. Was the second report not able to review the projects that were running if they were not yet verified and approved by Europe? No, I don't. Interpletion was to take place, and it was to be demanded and made obvious that this move would finally take place, and the very fact that the government did realize that it was wrong is that they finally gave the report. I'm not going to discuss the content right now that's a second point, but now they've given a report. So how come two weeks before that he refuses any need to report, and then he does report. It is a sure proof, and it will also make the citizens realize that the government has made such a mistake. That the government does not respect Parliament or its decisions, and the citizens make their views on such a government very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87352	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87353	Thank you very much. My dear colleague has come from a completely wrong premise. Namely, like he said, and that's what I'm correcting as an incorrect allegation. The government does not respect the Parliament's conclusions because it has not given an overview of the activities, which has not given a review of the projects etc. However, if he had read the interpreter and fellow Members of the Assembly's decision, he would have seen that there are no such words in that decision at all. It is not required in the decision of the Council to review the projects, to review the activities, but rather to seek the use of pre-accession funds has not yet begun except in the CARDS programme, behind it the Government is bringing a report on the use. A review of the planned and unused funds, they were not up to the CARDS program that the government is now submitting to this Parliament. Dragged and untapped funds, they weren't there because they weren't even withdrawn because the deadlines weren't here. So the government respected the Parliament's decision when it started withdrawing funds in the CARDS programme the government submitted within the time period within which the Parliament set this report, and all of this remained either misunderstanding or one political shot into the blank.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87354	Second correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87355	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Lesar's incorrect claim that Croatian citizens will decide one day in the referendum. It will not be about anything, because if this is how the negotiation strategy is implemented, all the requirements of the European Union as a whole or as individual members will already be accepted so that citizens have nothing to decide on.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87356	SDP representative club, respected representative of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87357	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here in front of the Parliament is a very simple interpretation. 21 representatives of the Croatian Parliament demand that the government implement the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament. 21 representatives of the Croatian Parliament hold that it is bad when the Government does not implement the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament and thinks that it is especially in this matter when it comes to better or worse use of 250m euros of development aid at this stage or almost a billion kuna of development aid in the EU membership phase that it is good to involve the Assembly in the overall problem which can facilitate the better use of these development funds. It is very strange that only 21 representatives of the Croatian Parliament are concerned about the constitutional position of the Croatian Parliament and the way of execution, i.e. not executing the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament. It is obvious to me from these debates that today in Parliament there will be an attempt to reverse the debate on a completely different track, on the track of proof whether much or little has been made in the system of using European funds, and for such debate that the only basis could be properly delivered conclusions, i.e. the execution of the conclusions requested by the Parliament, means neatly delivered reports by the Croatian Government on how to use the funds. At this point, we have no basis for such a debate. It is therefore important to remain in the debate at the assessment of the facts and consequences of the fact that the conclusion of the Croatian Assembly on the delivery of the report on the use of funds has not been carried out. We are witnessing the government's barbaric attempts to prove unproved in its report on this interpretation that the unfulfilled commitment to the Croatian Parliament is being made. In that case, I'd say... serve the Semantic, formalistic and quasilogical arguments under which we should believe that the use of pre-accession funds could not have been reported by the Assembly until the withdrawal of those funds began, or until payment from the European Union account began. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And already in the follow-up to this report, the government is beginning to detail what has been done to prepare the use of European funds. The secretary of state here had material for almost 20 minutes to explain everything that was done in the fund-using system, and that content could quite nicely fit in at least three reports required by the Assembly's conclusions. It was precisely this content that the interpreters of the interpretation and wanted and expected to hear from the government. That is why the Parliament in October 2005 tasked the government to regularly report on everything that happens in pre-accession funds. The Assembly simply wanted to fulfill its Constitutional Function in this important area, at least, at least these 21 representatives of the Croatian Parliament who submitted the interpretation because they want to perform the Constitutional Function of the Assembly in this important area, but in this government has made it impossible because for them the use of pre-accession funds means simply withdrawing funds, and for us the use is a much broader and more comprehensive concept that includes both the preparation and organisation of institutions and the education of potential users and the development of projects and the approval of projects and the withdrawal of funds and irregularities in this process and difficulties that we can cover together. All of this could have been systematically discussed in the Croatian Parliament only that the government wanted to share with us everything it faced in the process of training Croatia to make better use of the pre-accession funds of the European Union. And if the government felt that the Council's conclusion was problematic, that it could not be executed, that there was no use of the funds then it could have, the representatives of the government could have made it very clear to the parliament before the vote on the conclusion in October 2005. The government forgets and neglects not only this parliamentary conclusion, which obliges 6 months of reporting on the use of European funds, but also forgets the 2005 parliamentary resolution establishing dialogue and co-operation between the Government and the Parliament in all topics of European integration, and may mention that the Government has not come before the Croatian Parliament long ago or with a report on the state of the negotiating process of Croatia's accession to the European Union, which should, after the parliamentary conclusion, be done specifically after the completion of each six-month European Union presidency. We also witnessed the debate in the Croatian Parliament of division of Croatia into statistical regions except for the one from 2003 before it was changed into the current form of three statistical regions. So much for the honesty of the Government's insistence on dialogue with the Parliament and the political consensus on European issues, and in a situation where it is not to expect that a neat reporting on the use of pre-accession funds could at all cause some more significant party recommendations, because we all have the same interest here. What further shows the inappropriate attitude of the executive authority towards the highest representative body is the tone, a language which the Government in its report defends the fact that the Assembly does not conclude. In the tried-out manner of the principle that the attack is the best defense, the government is used by an aggressive dictionary that indiscriminately, quotes: "It completely rejects all the allegations from the interpretation." Well, not all of them can be rejected from the interpretation, but the fact that the Assembly's conclusion has not been carried out cannot be rejected. The representatives of the interpreters are about to experience that the Government has despised and detested all their allegations. Instead of admitting that she has lost a parliamentary conclusion somewhere, that she has forgotten about it, and that from now on, she has broken her promise to fully and systematically report to the Parliament on everything that is going on and is not happening in the area of use of funds, we come across this view of the Government. One of the most problematic parts of the government's defence is the claim that the Assembly's conclusion was actually carried out because although there were no 6-month reports to the Parliament, the Parliament did know all about the problem of using access funds, since, with the proposals, the documents on the confirmation of various agreements with the European Union on the subject were given regular explanations. Thus, a controversial, selective and unconstitutional approach by the government declares the Council's systematic involvement in the process of using European funds. I would also refer to two more unacceptable facts from the government's report. Desiring to show that the incorrect claim from the interpretation that Croatia is making worse use of European funds than other candidate countries is the government's use of incomparable data. Thus, Croatia agreed 98.4% of the funds available in the CARDS programme for 2003, stressing the agreements and comparing this with the percentages of the use of PHARE funds. I stress the use in other countries that range between 23% and 68%. Such comparison does not prove our effectiveness because it is not correct to compare the percentages of the agreed and the percentages of the funds used. Only when it has completed the use of our agreed projects will it be possible to correctly compare the percentages of the funds used in us and in other countries. The second complaint points to the fact that neither the comprehensive information and education programme on the pre-accession fund system, which the Government says, included more than 4,000 participants in 2006, has yielded more concrete results in the outside the government sector. The only programme intended for private investors, the one from the SAPHARD agricultural sector, experienced a debacle because it was possible to choose suitable projects covering only 5% of the available funds in the public tender. Obviously, the programme and education either includes 4 thousand mischosen participants or their content is not sufficiently educational and concrete to enable the development of concrete and competitive projects in the private sector. All of these convinces us at the SDP club that the launch of this interpretation had very good reasons and that it has already achieved at least partially its purpose now. If nothing else has led the Government to make an effort to draw up a report on the interpretation, which lists so many of the content elements on the use of pre-accession funds that could have been a good basis for carrying out the unexecuted parliamentary conclusion. In addition, the impediment has also launched the hastily sending of the first report to the Government on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union that we will discuss after this interpretation. In the SDP club, we do not see what arguments could justify the government that simply disobeyed the binding conclusion of the Croatian Parliament. And we also don't see what arguments could have led any parliamentary representative to raise his hand in defending the government's behaviour, not in defending the reputation and constitutional positions of the representative body of which he is a member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87358	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87359	Mr. President, representatives of the government! He incorrectly stated that the government does not want or implement the Croatian Parliament's conclusion and that it has deviated from the declared policy. In fact, the use of pre-accession funds from the European Union began only in the second half of 2006. Namely, the deadline for the conclusion of the contract for projects financed by the CARDS in 2003 expired on 6 June 2006, after which the funds from the European Union budget began to be allocated according to the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Accordingly, it is precisely in line with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 5 October 2005 that the report can be drawn up and respected only for the second half of 2006, as the government did. And exactly what is important to discuss is that this report, which is requested by the conclusion, refers to July 1st to December 31st, 2006. We'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87360	Second correction, the respected representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Mimica said, you can't throw everything out of impelation. Mr. Mimica, I think you've been in the Parliament and the government for a long time, and you'll see that everything is going to go away. So you'll see that you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87362	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87363	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Mimica, said the government is even using an aggressive dictionary in an attempt to reject the interpretation submitted by 21 MPs. It's not about any aggressive dictionary. The government has the right to reject incorrect claims. You yourself said it was impossible to compare the contracted funds with the funds used. Well, that's what this is all about. We will be able to talk about the use of funds only at the end of the process. For the CARDS 2003 only 31 December 2009. That's what this is all about. And you got the reports. It's not true you didn't get the report. You've received reports. And this is the latest.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87364	And the Fourth Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87365	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Mimica incorrectly said the government should have reported preparations for the use of funds. And I think that's where the misunderstanding is. In the Council's conclusion, the government is not obliged to give reports on preparations for use but on the withdrawal of funds. The report shows that the government has really done the quality of the preparations, and the withdrawal deadline has just now come. And the government, as soon as the deadline came, reported to us within six months. So I think the government respects the Parliament's decision if we read it the way we want to read it, and as the Parliament thought. And if we want to read that the Parliament didn't mean it, then we'll translate that the government should have reported the preparations. And the word preparation doesn't exist. There is only a word withdrawn in Parliament's decision, not used, fraud and irregularities. If you haven't pulled, there's no unused and no fraud and irregularities. As soon as the deadline for it came, the government informed us about it. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87366	Secretary of State Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87367	So here, let me take a look around. In no way has the government ever been in the cause and interest in disrespect to treat the Parliament. However, the conclusion is clear. It's possible I can read it again. It undertakes the Government to submit a full report every 6 months on use with specific reference to planned, unused, withdrawn and unused funds and possible fraud and irregularities. And according to this conclusion, the government submits for the period during which these events occurred. The second thing I wanted to stress was the question of debacles as the distinguished MP Mimica said in the SAPARD programme. Knowledge, the basic knowledge of how the SAPARD programme is structured, the way it works, indicates that such claims are not correct and are not particularly correct with people working at the SAPARD agency. Because the SAPARD program works as follows. It operates on the same basis and principles as the common agricultural policy in the Member States. Therefore, from the way SAPARD projects are implemented, there is no difference between what Member States are doing. In order to enable Croatia to work and operate as the Ministry of Agriculture in the Member States, then the period 2005 to mid-2006 was used for preparation and for so many times mentioned accreditation. The Union knew that the preparations for the SAPARD were extremely complex and therefore did not award SAPARD for 2005 but only for 2006. And after the Ministry of Agriculture has prepared to start tendering for the private sector. So, SAPARD is the difference between the PHARE and ISPA programme in which the Commission is not subject to pre-prepared projects for approval but is being prepared by the institutions which the Commission then says, I believe in your ability to assess projects in the manner that the Union regulations require. Now let's call the private sector to report to those competitions. The first round of such a contest lasted from July to the end of October last year. Three months have been spent on evaluations of projects. And the first round ended with results that in the first round of Croatia's history, five Croatian farmers went through such a competition. The others often called to see how the procedure was going. There is a second tender that will continue until July, which will allow the return of agricultural households and companies or companies involved. The SAPARD programme will also be open by the summer of next year, by the summer, until August 2008, until when tenders can be held and payments can be made. Therefore, to say that the SAPARD project has experienced a debacle, I believe that it is not correct, even if it is not correct for these people in the Ministry of Agriculture and for those who appear in competitions. Because I'm undermining and getting it over with. The money of the European Union is not only here for us to bend and take, but for all of this together it should be very well prepared documentation and projects and, moreover, in the SAPARD, this money allocated in the first round can be returned unless this same private sector implements the projects as it is written in the documentation and this will come to be checked by auditors and commissions. Therefore, we cannot talk about either debacle or blame the Ministry of Agriculture and the SAPARD agency because everyone has to know it's a serious job. And for the first round, $12 million was spent, indicating that some farmers had successfully prepared themselves for it. I hope there'll be more in the second round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87368	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87369	Thank you very much. The secretary of state is trying to convince us incorrectly that the system of use of the SAPARD program is itself and by definition so complicated that it cannot be used with more than 5% in the first round. I'm sure that's not the exact quote. It is that only five projects have gone through in the public competition, only 12 million kuna projects of 240 possible and it is obvious that it is not about the complexity of the system but about what is scheduled in the process of education of farmers who simply did not know how to apply their projects to a greater extent in the first public competition. Therefore, it is indeed a total system, a system error but in Croatia rather than in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87370	The second correction by the honourable representative, Plasimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87371	I'd like to correct this last sentence of the secretary of state that says it's not correct to mention how the first SAPARD had a debacle. Listen, all the data actually says the exact opposite of what you're saying. It's definitely too little money... as a result but also measures which could be used but which were not used because they were expelled from the first year of application of the programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're talking about road construction, etc. So, we can justify ourselves as much as we want, but the people who are working on it, who have worked hard, so eventually those who should have received the funds have convinced themselves that the government is definitely responsible... The ministry is definitely responsible for this one we can tell the debacle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87372	HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87373	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. When we talk about this interpretation and the response of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to this interpretation of the club HSP, there are now two clear problems here. There have been two problems that are clearly visible but unfortunately there is no answer to them. The first problem is that Croatia does not have clear and complete negotiating strategies with the European Union. Therefore, Croatia does not have a clear and complete negotiation strategy with the European Union, i.e. the Croatian strategy could be translated simply by Croatia in this process of "negotiation" has a strategy to accept everything the European Union or the European Commission requires of it as a whole and the demands of individual members are also coming. Here, this is the simplest statement of the current strategy of the official Croatian strategy regarding negotiations with the European Union. And inevitably, then, the consequences and all of this are the defeating indicators of the use of funds from pre-accession funds. That is why it is not important for us in the HSP club to report so much, although it also proves that the Croatian Government does not respect the decision or conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, but it is important that the Croatian Government finally comes out with a full negotiation strategy with the European Union because we already know what the results of this strategy mean to us, in the light of the clear acceptance of all the requirements of the European Union as a whole and of the individual members, and we always talk about those requirements that do not fall within the legal acquis of the European Union or the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union. Let's take the issue of the economic belt, take the question of liberalisation of real estate sales and everything else. So our strategy is to negotiate anyone to report to the European Union as a whole or as a member of the European Union immediately meets this requirement. And that's why we've been put in a position like this. And that is why we hold that one day Croatian citizens will have nothing to decide about when they come to the referendum. Why? Because as a whole and as individual members, the European Union will have achieved its interests by then, and this is how they have already achieved it. And then there is no surprise what Mrs Pusic says is that this support for Croatia's entry into the European Union is falling. It falls because people become aware that this "negotiation" process does not carry well for Croatian citizens or carries Croatia as a whole. And that's why this is happening that we obviously don't learn from the mistakes and the good things of those countries, let's say the example of Hungary that passed this process and who knew how to withdraw and exploit 73% of the funds. And we're working with Hungary, working with all these countries. Well, then these experiences should finally be taken and implemented in our strategy. We know mainly about Hungary for the area of agriculture and now we know what the state of Croatian agriculture is. And now take this part which is the state summit and delighted with this resolution of parliament yesterday that means Croatia although the resolution normally does not have a binding power, good Croatia means under some conditions it can count on 2009 to join the European Union. So, under some of these conditions. But it's always been clear to us from the beginning and beyond. It's not about speed, it's about the quality of the negotiations, and the quality of the negotiations so far is unfortunately very bad. Quality is a very bad negotiation. The mere acceptance of the request is not a negotiation. Well, we don't even officially object to complaining. Our negotiating teams are leaving for Brussels. They say they get orders and return to Croatia and carry out the tasks. Is that a negotiation strategy? Well, of course it's not a negotiation strategy. It's mere acceptance of demands and warrants. And how in that part do we protect our national interests? Why do we not learn examples of Malta, for example, even Norway, which has made good use of all pre-accession funds, did not eventually enter. She had an even higher percentage of the use than Hungary, for example. So that is why it is necessary to clearly, transparently tell all Croatian citizens that this way of negotiation, under quotes, is not good for them. Not good for Croatia. And that's why it's most important, it's not that important to us this reporting. The most important thing is for the government to come out with a clear negotiation strategy. Where this particular part will be a significant part of the withdrawal of funds and the use of funds from pre-accession European Union funds, where a clear and transparent state will be involved. Because it is obvious that programmes must be designed and that the more interest there is at the level of both the county and the cities and municipalities to withdraw these funds from pre-accession funds. If we go like this we will certainly have the lowest so far, the lowest use rate of those funds that will objectively be below 50%. We have seen that even Romania has crossed over 50 percent. So this is all deeply worrying. And I'm particularly worried about us at the HSP Club this formalist approach to the government today. Was that word in the conclusion or was it the word? Well, that's not the point. The point is, we don't have a strategy. Not to negotiate but to accept everything they ask of us and not to publicly admit it, draw a line and this, all the bad results, everything that other countries have gone through, we need to take advantage of and put into office that this bad course has finally ended. Because what happens tomorrow? All that will happen is that in this part we will totally sell out Croatia, totally sell out Croatia. We sold out the banks. It's a visible situation that we are, to sell everything further. Now it's an interest in HEP. And you'll accept that. Because they're going to ask to go to HEP privatisation. And then you will also explain to the Croatian people how good it is. How good is anyone that we sold HT and how we are essentially in Croatia, how big investments are from something, 20 and some billion euros. It wasn't investment. It was shopping. And that money was eventually pulled out of Croatia. That money was all pulled out of Croatia. All the profits, they take profit from, say, Deute Telecom and the rest of them are out of Croatia. There is nothing left in Croatia. So the government needs to behave responsibly, and we all here too, because if we don't do these things tomorrow, we won't be able to do it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87374	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87375	Thank you, Mr. President. So here we have witnessed a classic example of how incorrect allegations can be completely incorrectly informed to the public about this really important topic. Inaccurate quotes. First, a colleague says there is no strategy, that in negotiations we accept everything they ask for. First, the topic is not negotiations but the topic is the exploitation of pre-accession funds and so on. And he says if it keeps going like this, we'll have the lowest use rate. So you're clear of evidence that it's not the "Cards 2003" programme that's only now going into realisation, and whose realisation is agreed by the end of 2009 with 98.4% of projects by the end of 2009. What are you talking about? And you're chasing the basics. Negotiation is a process and it is not true that we are unsuccessful in negotiations. That's completely incorrect, that's false. Because they also give us recognition to all those who negotiate with us because there are over 1,000 experts on the team working in different areas who have nothing to do with political commitment and who are indeed very much defending and protecting their national interests. Besides, the information on these negotiations is... The National Committee where your president sits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't misinformed the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87376	And another correction by the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87377	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed representative caught a topic he didn't understand at all and just wanted to speak to him. He says, "The negotiations are bad." That's not just true. I'm surprised he didn't say it was the conclusion of his expert team because when he tried to deceive the public, he mentioned that the HSP expert team had concluded something. There's no such team, and I don't know if it'll ever exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87378	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87379	Dear Mr Vice President, Articles 219 and 214 have been violated. Mr. Zubovic known as the dentist interferes with everything and you should have reprimanded him and given him a warning. Let him coordinate his practice of dentistry with the legal gains of the European Union and then talk about this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87380	Well, it's not about, it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The MP claimed that your claim was incorrect, and he claimed that his claim was correct, and yours was incorrect that you do not understand it. Yeah, and that's why, that's a claim that I can't judge right now, is it you know what you're talking about or don't you? That's why, it's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87381	... I do, but you don't know what you're talking about. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87382	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87383	Dear Mr. President, we see Croatia, we heard just before the Vice President could use EUR 252 million in that period in 2005/2006. We used it to mean 24% or 70 million euros. The local self-government of that money has managed to withdraw only 3.18%. So somewhere around EUR 8 million. So no EUR 172 million has been withdrawn. Now why, about that a little later, but what simply fraternised me when Mrs Pusic said that 513 people are working on these projects of withdrawing that money to Croatia. A short time ago, Mr. Matušić said as many as 1,000 people. If that's so... Then the question is, who's what, who's stopping it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why, well, then I'll talk about 513. Why don't those 513 people do some local self-government? Why are these people inaccessible to local self-government when they're looking for their... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will speak more clearly of "Saphard" because I would use another word here. There's been a total indignation. However, if these 513 people succeed in withdrawing only 24% of the appropriations currently 76% of the people are obviously excess or should be sent home by 4 hundred, so let those who remain try. If there are 10 in Slovenia and Croatia has 10, 50 pardons, and Croatia has 513, then there are 450 people in Croatia. Now if we watch 513 people gross times 15000 kuna a month it's about 7 and a half million kuna a month times 12 months. We get to 100 million kunas. So these 513 people in 3, 4 years eat all of what we have received from the European Union and that is simply a fact. They're costing themselves. I said I'd talk more about this Sapard program. These are these special pre-accession programmes for agriculture, rural development. It is intended to support state candidates for full membership in the European Union in support of some structural reforms of the agricultural sector, and measures to comply with this legislation, etc. and then invests in agricultural holdings, for processing, for searching for agricultural fishery products and clearly for rural infrastructure. However, as we stand here. We've been going with this SAPARD since the beginning of page 8. So we say European partnership, short-term priorities, fishing. So, here it is literally said that the establishment of appropriate administrative inspection structures for fisheries should be started, assessed together with the European Commission and interested neighbouring countries, and in particular Slovenia and Italy Kovacevic, will be of interest to you, as a consequence of the fishing activity in the ecological and fishing area which Croatia has declared...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87384	Do not mention the name of Agent Kovacevic in vain!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87385	in October 2003, with a view to making appropriate solutions to ensure the continuation of Community fishing activities in the Croatian fisheries area. It's a done quote. It means that Slovenian fishermen, Italians, will hunt in Croatian waters no matter what we will or when we will declare something. That's why I like to say that ZERP doesn't guard any fleets, warships, etc. rather than the fishing fleet. But what's going on with this Sapard program? Otherwise, let me just say that so far, according to these tables delivered to us under the CARDS programme, 29.8 million euros, the PHARE programme is 15.6 million euros, ISPA 6 million euros. It's a total of 51.6m euros. 28.means March it was a month ago a second public tender was opened for submission of applications from the SAPARD programme in Croatia which is open or will be open for 4 months. The SAPARD programme, a special pre-accession fund intended for agriculture and the food industry, which has been available to us since 2006. The funds of this programme are irrevocable. That's what the point is. They amount to slightly less than 20 million euros for two currently available SAPARD measures, which are provided in the European Union programme or in their budgets, i.e. on the budget of the Republic of Croatia. The speciality of this programme is that it provides great opportunities for businesses, farmers, I don't know about natural persons, and I don't know about these food activities, I don't know about the purchase of machines, etc. a funds of 2 and a half to 10 million kuna may be provided depending on what these funds are used for. The biggest problem, but now we have to be objective and it is the same to recognize most of our small businesses, craftsmen, farmers, whatever we call them, who prepared for the first competition were their financial indicators. In order for the project to be reported to the SAPARD programme to be successful, not only did the project have to meet a number of conditions, but the user had to meet certain financial indicators for 2005. The SAPARD Agency, on the basis of a business plan that a clear user must attach to the application, calculated a number of indicators some of which were also crucial to the adoption of these assessments by the Ministry. In fact, it had to meet those four indicators for 2005 of current liquidity, then accelerated liquidity, an operational profit margin that was supposed to be greater than 5% and a return to total assets greater than 3%. It's something that gentlemen absolutely no company at all, especially not a little could satisfy, or could not satisfy it. It's simply a complicated procedure here that simply compromises one good intention, one good activity. Ignorance has simply hampered the availability of our small farmers with these SAPARD loans, and we say on the other hand that 513 people in this country are working on these jobs and none of them are able to remember these people simply inform them. That lack of information simply brings me to the point of delegating those people who are working on these projects. We have a whole series of absurd measures here. Some people in Istria spoke to me, so for example, those who plant salad have the right to SAPARD loans, and those who do not have mushrooms for example. I specifically heard from Mr. Zigante, who deals with truffles, exports them to Italy, Austria, Slovenia, Germany, America. He's got all the paperwork. The SAPARD loan cannot be reached because mushrooms are not mentioned in that nomenclature as such. And it's just not normal, no matter what someone says, you've got money, so get on with it. But it's one brand that can be used as such, use unless, according to some initiatives from Istrian space, you can't achieve that logic if you can't achieve those assets as we see when you assign agricultural land where all the citizens of this country, outside of Istria, can buy one square meter of state agricultural land for zero to one and a half kuna, and in Istria is that country from 50 to 75 kuna. The second thing I want to say is when this SAPARD is due to the incompleteness of the documentation and the inadequacy of the application, we can say maybe 90% of such requests, and it's agreed in the end of only 5 projects. The funeral value of these five contracted projects was 25.4 million kuna. So 20 million euros, 150 million kunas were approved, so it's been used to figure out how much about 15% of those 25.4 million kunas. And the total agreed amount of grant support for investment under these contracts means $12.6 million, which is less than 9% of our total SAPARD funds that have been allocated to Croatia. I'm going to say it one more time, it's an exceptional asset because de facto that small farmer, a craftsman, I don't know who deals with that agricultural industry can count on 50% of the grants. I have no illusions about the European Union, but no matter what I think, I am that Croatia in the European Union or from the European Union can profit. For example. The largest benefit in Poland achieved by the European Union was by their peasants. Today, it is the category that would, which is the most relevant to that, let's say, the European Union. It's true, it's far more work, but I guess there are clearer rules. ... in Croatia, when it comes to the European Union, there is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You don't have to run from it. Probably because of our citizens' relations with the government. They go by that logic, and ha, the elite is political for, we're against you, so we'll be that logic and against what you suggest. I'm gonna say it one more time. I'm not idealizing. There's no red tape together, there's no red tape on that community. In many ways, they are no better than we are. But we still have to admit it in this European Union is doing more, but far better living than living in Croatia. If you want to live better, then you have to give something under quotes. But there's a real question after being there in '98, '99. sold that banking system as far as possible. I don't think that this national interest is protected either by drilling into the chest, by exclusiveness, by calling for the light of the past, but by work and by doing the other, if we think we're going to get something, and on the other hand, we won't have to do it in some way and I think that these individuals are just as bad as they are, because there's nothing to do with anything. Yes, we will get something from the European Union, but we will have to give something on the other hand. Like, I don't know, I'm talking now in my head, and those who get a different kind of help, whether they're NGOs, etc. Still, they have to make up for it in a certain way, you to your lenders. What's also interesting with this SAPARD program are, and it really needs to be explained to people, is how this procedure goes for approval, for approving these payments. The funds are tempting, they're significant, and I think people should be educated about it. Once again, it is 50% of the grants that can change anyone's economic, economic activity. However, the public should be equally honest about what it is. Explain to them how they can reach these under quotes "loans" which are almost irrevocable in one half of the part and fairly divide the loans into the space of the entire Republic of Croatia, not that these funds from pre-accession European funds are exclusive for some Croatian landscapes only. I watch this CARDS program, watch the PHARE program, watch the ISPA program, Karlovac, Vinkovci, Factory, Bikarac, I don't know, etc. I don't want to pick everything up. But I haven't noticed that in these 51.5m euros and one, and one, under the quotes "credit line" goes the way of the County of Istria or the Primorje-Gorski County. All in all we think for sure is that it didn't happen here as much as it could, by the way, that we have 513 people doing something, and ultimately a little bit of the results of their work. And that's why there's a little bit of man-made tsunami to be made there.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87386	Tsunami? In 11 and 28 timed out for applications for a 10-minute discussion. We still have two, three clubs and 16 MPs. Correction of an incorrect quote, the first, respected representative of Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87387	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my neighbor, my colleague Caine, claims that 513 people who deal with being inaccessible to local self-government, which is absolutely incorrect. That's what I'm saying from my own experience. But I'm also talking about it because it's just for local self-government they've held a whole series of seminars at which it's been explained in detail. And I'm a colleague of Cain's own just in detail, so the data here proved the opposite. However, sooner or later, a colleague of Cain will have to read the Bible because it says: “Who is knocking will be opened to him.". And just because of the European Union's regional programmes, Istria has a good chance of getting a lot of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87388	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Zdenka Chuhil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87389	I want to correct a colleague of Cain who says that there is obviously no fungi in order to isolate Istria, that is, how exclusive there is for certain ends. I must say that SAPARD was made on the basis of a plan for agriculture and rural development in 2005-2010, which worked groups in ministries which unfortunately did not write much. So we don't just have mushrooms, we don't have bees, we don't have olive growing, we don't have vineyarding. We've got waste management with the farm, but we don't have biogas. We do not have the management of unprocessed areas, i.e. we do not have the incineration that the European Union is heartening and has encouraged in a dozen countries that are last joined by the European Union. We don't have production for the non-food chain, we specifically don't have biofuel production and exactly the next topic is Kyoto, etc. etc. It would therefore be possible to discuss above all the very plan for agriculture and rural development and to raise the question of what is the basis of this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87390	State Secretary Martina Dalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87391	Well, I just actually wanted to inform about Istria and the projects. Just the other day I had the opportunity to listen on the radio of the mayor of Istrian Mr. Jakovcic, who was actually very pleased with the expression of projects that are being implemented in the Istrian county area. It is therefore not true that these funds are not going to Istria County, and in particular in the field of Istrian County, the CARDS 2003 project is being implemented to strengthen schools for vocational education, so it is helping schools in Pula through the "city of the scheme", so help in managing projects of social and economic cohesion, aid for the project Center for Metal Research "Metris" Pula, so there are a number of projects from cross-border cooperation with Italy. Also from trans national co-operation including the project "Parencana", which was just mentioned by Mayor Jakovcic as something very useful for Istria in terms of revitalisation of the old railway track. I could now continue to list these projects that are being implemented in Istria, but here we have summed up everything together in the territory of the Istrian County is being implemented or projects worth 6.5m euros will be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87392	Please correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87393	Everything we do, we do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87394	And what's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87395	Just that, for the record. All alone!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87396	Is that an incorrect quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87397	That's the exact quote, we're doing everything ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87398	The club of representatives of HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić, and please, colleague Kramarić, you have almost found a vice president, do not do this. Be careful and with all due attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87399	I'd be begging to move the camera.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87400	It's not about the cameras, it's about you staring at the vice president, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87401	There's something about it, but it's the camera.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87402	It's not the camera, it can't be the camera.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87403	In the wrong place.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87404	And that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87405	You see, the HSLS Club would start with an old joke about communism in the area of the use of EU pre-accession funds. That famous radio "Erevan" trying to define what communism is saying is a point on the horizon that's moving as far away as you can get closer to it. It seems so close to me that it stands with this story of our approaching the European Union. The closer we get to her, the more we actually feel like she's getting further and further away. We at the club won't join this debate that I don't know if it's been done, how much was done or could have been done more or less, and then we'll be afraid to prove what we've actually put in advance as a thesis, and one thinks it's done a little bit, and the other government will think it's done enough or even more than it could. I think this interpretation actually opens up a few very big questions and these questions aren't actually since yesterday. This is the issue in the first row between relations between the parliament of the legislative authority on the one hand and the executive government, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm saying that story is a story that's come from these democratic changes since the '90s, it's actually been around all the time. To me, I belong to those MPs who always seemed to have actually failed to protect their dignity, and very often the governments used it skillfully, so on a whole series of our decisions, the government actually simply ignores it. But let's be honest, this has happened to all governments and in all Parliament's councils so that it is not immune either, because I can also remember that the coalition government also had a similar relationship with Parliament because simply Parliamentarians very often, especially from this ruling combination, are actually inclined to forgive their own, the fact that some final parliaments do not implement. And on the other hand, this very important issue that is also constantly the same on our agendas, is the relationship between the central government and local self-government and regional self-government. It is the same question that has also been a question since the 1990s that the central government always makes it too liberal and doesn't control as much as it thinks that, as local self-government or regional self-government thinks the central government is controlling and it is also given here to see the same from some of these discussions of some clubs as we really come out of a position every time to talk from the position of our constituency that gave us confidence that we are sitting here and then normally defend the interests of that constituency. I will talk about this more recently, in fact, to see that this story about the pre-accession European Union funds also causes this particular division of ours to be about the relationship between central and local, central authorities and local self-government, so right now you really have a problem with, say, almost every county, city, region that holds something to itself to open its offices. Which doesn't have to be bad, but again, I'm afraid knowing our... organization and coordination that out of it is just a bigger cost and again, an elementary ignorance of how the European administration works. But even when liberals try to impose a very serious topic, which is that we really have a clearer national strategy on how to respond to this complexity of Europe of our environment, how to respond with our own complexity. That's the obvious question where we fail, and it's actually all those topics that we simply do in our debates and we skip. The theme of globalisation actually comes down to how I don't know flowers, what I like, what I don't like. There's not one more serious political debate. Even the academic community is trying something, but political parties, politicians are actually simply approaching this topic as if no books were written, as if nothing were happening, and as if some other processes were not happening next to us. We simply as a policy are not able to Anticipate any more serious political, economic, some ini process that is happening in our environment. That, too, comes from that confusion that occurred in the '90s. You know, when we really thought and when Europe seemed to be the solution to all our problems, and then it turned out that this Europe doesn't really have such a positive relationship with us and that it doesn't accept us as being really its integral part and it's also a big fact that it's actually very easy to go over, and then this injury that happened then actually generates a whole and this dissatisfaction that appears in our public that the growing number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia is actually becoming less and less inclined to the European Union, and these are also topics that we are doing this very elegantly, and we always think that they are predominant. It is nice to read here in the government's reply, in her report that if I am not mistaken 10, 15 workshops, seminars on the topic of use, etc. were organised during January and February 2007. It is all good that there are these, there is an e-mail address, that in 2005 it was within the ABCD cycle of the European Union 89... lectures, 26 short seminars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all nice, but obviously it's still actually not enough. It's always insufficient for the public to sensitize for all of these, for the processes that are real there. It seems to be that it belongs to that political-European tourism in the sense that I don't know you have a seminar, so, in fact, apart from this kind of declarative attitude, your desire to show some of your will, that behind that there are actually no results and then the absence of these results is just being shown in this dissatisfaction that some of us think that things are slow and that there are really some of these problems with this elemental withdrawal of funds from European pre-accession funds. I remember when I was also there in 2001, 2002, in Brussels, so I talked to some of these European bureaucrats, and they also had comments that I don't know, that there's a problem I don't know exactly with the CARDS program that we're not able to offer, that's how many of these projects that they might be able to follow, and obviously that there are some obvious problems that these technologies, applications actually cause the biggest problems with us. I can't believe there's no interest, that's how a man could make arguments then... To conclude if, in fact, if these coins don't retreat that we don't really need the money, but it seems to me that we still need the money, that we need the money, and that in some way one coordination between the central government, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and these, this right now really wakes up these offices in Brussels I say where certain counties, cities also set up their offices and it seems to me that there's absolutely no coordination,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a whole series of technical problems from work permits how to receive pay, how to report, how long can it be left, who can in fact explain that certain funds and cannot be withdrawn if they are not exactly the blessing of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that there really is one more comprehensive coordination there, and that this very means that some, that is possible faster, are easier to come here anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I won't be cynical as a colleague, or I can be even more cynical than fellow Caine when he says 513 people need to pull out I don't know 30 percent,... Let's join in and hire a thousand 500 people then we could probably assume that we will withdraw all the funds, but it seems the same to me that the meaning of these pre-accession funds is not really that this state administration is emerging, bureaucracy, but that it is precisely in the sense that these things, which are standing and which the European Union has provided for us, are, as early as possible, being involved in our economy, in strengthening the institution, are actually what these programmes are intended for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, the same thing is quite clear to me, and it must be quite clear to all of us that no one only gives to beautiful eyes, that there will always be something for something, and that this fact will also today, tomorrow, face us exactly, with some things that we may not have to take lightly here, but what the HSLS club actually sees is the meaning of this interpretation, it is precisely that this issue of government and parliament's relationship opens up, that some way, if we need to come and sharpen, after all, it is a supersede topic, it must not be a matter of political colour because we belong to the ruling coalition... , rather than because it is a fact that if the Parliament does make something, then it should indeed be assumed that what is done as quickly as possible, that the decisions of the Parliament are carried out as decided by the Parliament and that the Government has an obligation regardless of the composition in the Assembly and the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, this story of centralization, or our decentralisation, is also the top topic to see how in the simplest possible way we can understand that a centralized country is not a good country, that indeed, in everyday life it really does work at the lowest local level and that it really does enable it, not that on the one hand you have extremely rich spaces, say the City of Zagreb or some parts of Croatia, and on the other hand that you have a tremendously large discrepancy between it, or the fact that we have both rich and northern or not know the poor south, but then the government has to take its own selective measures, certain decisions, moves and some way to balance it, rather than that life in one place should be, that it really meets European standards, and that there are indeed spaces in Croatia that are not their own selectively said goods in poverty and that they can're not really participating in all those benefits of life that in one such as little and other way that should be fully consistent in Croatia. In that sense, I say, this interpretation makes sense if we figure it out. And not if we really translate it into this day-to-day political field where we will not know how to prove it, so everyone will be relatively successful in proving what has not been done or what has been done, whether the deadlines or not run those deadlines that need to be fulfilled. I'm saying, the HSLS club only sees the point. And precisely the desire for this kind of debate to happen as soon as possible and stimulate this particular story, this relationship with Europe, which Europe is, what do we expect from this Europe, what important processes in Europe are happening, and what are our answers to these very processes? And not that they're coming down to whether or not we're for globalisation, Americanization, or something else, but to see what's behind it. That's it from the HSLS club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87406	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87407	Thank you very much. The honourable representative said the government is not respecting the parliament. It's just not true. He said it was often, he did not set any example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87408	The club of representatives of the HSS, the respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87409	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, if this interpretation allowed debate in front of the Croatian public and opened up the possibilities to present the arguments of how to view the speed, character and direction of Croatia's approach to the European Union, it has already achieved its primary goal in itself. In fact, before the metric debate itself, I would like to say something that exists in the Croatian public, of course, as a problem. He keeps reading himself one way or another. And of course when it comes to the European Union, then Croatian skepticism is something that is simply an inevitable topic. And this is in some way present both in the Croatian public and in Croatian political options, which is completely legitimate. It is a key question that, unfortunately, neither experts nor authorities dealing with researching the reasons for such thinking in Croatian citizens, that there is no simple answer nor possible, even though no motives or cause or motivation of such a situation have been identified so far. In fact, what is stated is that such thinking cannot rely on a rational calculation of the costs and benefits of the European Union. So that's definitely true. That the result of such a situation is not in a rational finding of benefit or cost. However, there is no strategy for Croatian society, the Croatian public would be affected by this fact that the euro of skepticism exists in Croatia. And then it can simply be said that Croatian skepticism is simply some endemic pain that is very difficult to define as a cause, and then it is therefore difficult to find a cure for it. So, regardless of what we cannot define at this level of scientific causes and consequences, we think that given the experience of other countries, it is very clear within our national opinion, the political opinion that has taken a very unanimous stand on the European Union issue to defend those topics that are important and to ask the key and most important question, what are our Croatian national priorities? Because through this sentence which is our key Croatian national priorities we open the most important reason for the euro of skepticism to fall. The second topic, of course, that will take the stage of this debate, rests on some demystification of pre-accession funds. In fact, I am convinced that in the Croatian public, with Croatian citizens, you would try to open up a debate about what pre-accession funds they are serving, how to get to them, which of these three are related to which area, I will not be rude to have a politician who may not answer the question most precisely, but that is a fact. But that's a fact. We at the HSS Club hold that pre-accession funds are very important for the reforms that Croatia needs to implement. However, we want to demystify the role and importance of pre-accession funds in such a way that they are a small aid for expensive adjustment. When I say that they are small aid for expensive adjustment I mean precisely the the thesis that it is evident that the costs of structural changes relating to the Republic of Croatia and at year level will be about a billion euros a year, which is almost 4%... It's a fact we have to face. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not a question of whether we agree in any way? But we have to face it. Of course, there's a paradox that's visible. He was most noted in Hungary's accession when negotiations were held. Hungary had far more time than Croatia, especially with the SAPARD programme, much more strongly launched the offensive of using these funds, although in the final amounts when you now compare them and nivellate them with Croatia which has done very little so far, in total terms these figures are slightly more in favour of Hungary. But what's important is that there's actually an absurdity. It is absurd that the country that enters and prepares to enter the European Union then spends most of the funds and still receives the smallest. While entering the European Union, the full content of the use of European funds is yet to be opened. So, in a position where you don't have, in a position where you're missing, in a position to make structural changes, even if you're short-termly jeopardizing the level of social security, in a broader sense, that you're reducing your own potentials and one huge 4% billion euros in direct investment in structural changes to make it clear in the future that you're ready for what's good. But I'm saying, the absurde is now resting on the inconsistencies of solutions that talk about the admission of new member states. When it comes to other countries and other practices, let's say an example of Ireland or Ireland's experience that it entered the European Union, especially when using pre-accession funds, there was clearly another picture. And of course, despite this, we have no right to give up. Of course, despite all the reasons that make it difficult for us to do the opposite, we need to step up our activities in using these pre-accession funds, we need to create opportunities for them to be used, but I still have to go back to that. We need to set national priorities because without setting national priorities, none of these three programmes that can be used now will be adequate. We have identified priority programmes in several resolutions, declarations, debates in this House, and this is now a touching point of what the role of the Croatian Parliament is, as is otherwise the position of Croatian Parliamentarianism, as is the role of the representative body of our representatives in the overall government in civil Croatia, in political Croatia, in civil Croatia. I think it is for many reasons that it can be said that the development of parliamentaryism in Croatia was not at the level to be ensured that society in total could deal with a very serious and very difficult path followed by Croatia and the way it was headed. I think that parliamentaryism in Croatia is pronounced comparable with all other European Union countries and those who are not but at the core level that it is falling to the test and that it is almost a rule in every government and in every parliamentary majority to get the public impression that it does not have the necessary power, determination, the will to fight clearly for those goals that I am sure are both individuals and that political parties would fight but unfortunately because of the competence we have given to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we often agree clearly, and then we do not create national priorities from those national priorities, and they are not visible enough to the citizens. It doesn't matter if they're visible to us, but the citizens don't see them clearly enough and then express their Euroscepticism. Therefore, the role of parliament is very important. He must sometimes take the part no matter how difficult and painful it was to say gentlemen these are the norms under which the Croatian Parliament will never go, and when it comes to supervision, and when it comes to witnessing the most important topics and this is an important topic. Therefore, we at the HSS Club are absolutely on the line to strengthen the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia, legislative behaviour and the growth of Croatian democracy, so that the government's trinity is not only declarative but it is real, so if it should be recorded in any way that will remain at the level of good democratic practice. In this sense, therefore, this debate is valid and beneficial to me. The second part would like to look back on exactly these national priorities. Is national food production and agricultural production a national priority in Croatia? She is a national priority and he has to be. Of course, it comes from the fact that 85% of Croatia is rural, that the largest population still lives in the Croatian village. Of course, these are the obligations that we must define as a policy. Did we, in practice and in nature, put our national priority on agricultural production, food production in Croatia, mean strengthening the production potential of the Republic of Croatia to the right feet? We didn't. We didn't do it. Will these pre-accession funds allow for the solidarity of raising these capacities? Unfortunately, you know what? He won't. Not because the biggest problem that entrepreneurs face when it comes to pre-accession funds is that the financial indicators required of them, and not only of the companies being asked to do so, but of those who submit the project, means that the person who submitted the request for the project is asked for such financial indicators, which I am telling you is genius that these five have met. I stayed fragrant, I didn't think anyone could please me. And you know why I thought no one could meet these terms and requirements? So because you need to have a liquid liquidity of 0.9%, you need an accelerated liquidity indicator to be greater than 0.6 and operational profitability at a level greater than 5%. When you have one such structure and what will help you. Help needs those who do not have the liquidity, who do not have the capital efficiency structure required, who are simply in trouble to resolve their own structural change. So they need help and they don't need to be helped by the strongest. It's like a question of support. Who are they giving to? To the strongest, the ones who have the most anyway, and the small ones always reduce support every year. So we need to change the system in which we're going to encourage and who we're going to encourage. We at HSS don't worry about whether this is enough speed to go towards the European Union, is it fast, is it slow. We worry about whether it is the right way, whether we are on the right path, whether we will protect our national economic priorities through these pre-accession funds, by empowering any decision that parliament has made to avoid being debated about whether this Parliament's decision has taken place. Unfortunately, not only in this mandate and in the mandates before, they have not always respected the decisions properly, even if they were unanimous Croatian parliaments, but usually they would forget, they would skip, they would be frisked. But I think this is a good opportunity to consider the reasons that have brought us into this situation and to link them to the civil Euroscepticism that exists in Croatia, which I do not know the answer to about the reasons but I know that it depends on us and how we will inform our citizens where their place is, where they will find the benefit and how they will be able to use it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87410	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87411	Thank you. A colleague of Markov said that large ones are being supported, that the small ones are being reduced in support. Indeed, such an argument is something that is completely incorrect. I will remind my colleague Markov that this government has corrected certain wrongs that have been done to her by the government that they... when they were diminishing their support for the planting of vineyards and olive groves and olive groves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, it is absolutely an incorrect claim made by him. Besides, there's a lot of claims he's made that he simply doesn't have a foothold in the facts. And farming is absolutely certain that 85% of the population is not engaged in agriculture. That's what he said. In rural areas, too, there can be no exact list. Only if you add up the cities and you'll get all the other information there. You cannot speak 85% of the Croatian population lives in the rural area. Only in the city of Zagreb there are... The population, it's almost a quarter of Croatia. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, not to mention other cities, Rijeka, Split, Osijek, Varazdin, Dubrovnik and everything else. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So let's go, let's talk We're talking, we're talking about facts. [[- Okay, okay.]] We're talking about facts, we're talking about data. [[- Okay, okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87412	Proposer of Honorable Representative Dragutin Lesar. You spoke on behalf of the club, now on behalf of the proposer. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87413	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't be long. But three things need to be resolved as possible misunderstandings. The first is linguistic acrobatics where the proposal for the conclusion of the Croatian People's Party Club is read differently today than it was read when the Parliament adopted it. We said it very simply. Full report. If today's content, the purpose of the report is to someone disputed how was it not disputed when the secretary of state said, "I think the report that will therefore be submitted within 6 months on progress in this process will be clearly seen." Today is the problem of reading and interpreting what the promoter meant when he proposed something? What the government has now written in her report is what we thought we were looking for. Second, on February 15th of this year, a newspaper publishes that out of 51 programmes registered for the "SAPHARD" five have passed. Two family economies and three agricultural holdings, from a larger company's agricultural-food sector. And this newspaper says that, strangely enough, about 200 ministry advisers are in charge of helping other farmers fill out documentation for projects of which 25 are specially educated for "SAPARD". 25 for "Saphard". There's 51 projects coming through, only 5 passing through. There's a re-competition. There's a second contest on March 28th. Obviously, something about these preparations, educations, and application programs was already seen or seen at the time. If we had discussed this last year in the fall, maybe this second competition would have gone a little earlier. Not just March 28th. And one more thing. The process of obtaining these funds is, among other things, that projects are given an insight into the accreditation agency which must check from the most important things whether the project is in line with the National Development Strategy of Croatia. And if he's moving on. The national strategy for Croatia's development was adopted by the government, not by the Parliament. One of the projects that did not get the green light among those 51 was the construction project of the "Zigante" truffle treatment plant if I'm not mistaken. Which could not pass because truffles and processing, the processing of truffles is not part of the national strategy. And only because of that regardless of the cost-effectiveness, regardless of the needs of the project could the project go further. Now I'm asking if anyone knows if the champions are in strategy? Manufacture and processing of shampoos. Maybe it's an adjective in the National Strategy or Istrian cattle, "buškarin"? Međimurje cold horse, cold-blooded horse It's prosciutto production. [[What kind of cold horse? They're not horses.]] Cold-blooded Cold-blooded, Mr. President, I was right on time. [[Cold-blooded, not cold-blooded horse.]] Prosciutt, cool. [[/Intruder: Yes, it is.]] The meat of the "stably". Ice harvest and predicate wine. Maybe there's a fur breeding strategy in the national strategy that we've banned in the meantime by law for 10 years. He won't be allowed to grow anymore, I don't know. Or is it in that strategy and the development of the textile industry? And if the first report had come, it would have been obvious, and if we had discussed it, perhaps the government would have installed something in the National Strategy that is now missing? And for these, examples of projects that could not go further because they are not in the National Strategy are not sufficient arguments to consider or the Government itself to consider this National Strategy and to supplement it if there was something not inside. If these discussions had been held 16 months ago, they might have been discussing 200 million kunas withdrawn, 200 million euros withdrawn, not 50. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87414	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87415	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said that the conclusion of the Assembly is being read differently today than it was reading at the time. That's impossible. It also writes today as it was written and then in the Assembly's conclusion that a report is given on the withdrawn, untapped funds. And that's not what the conditions are for. That's not what the conditions are for. The "Cards", the 2003 programme, was only yet to be agreed on in July 2006. A realisation of all these projects and financial exploitation by the end of 2009. By the end of 2009. So for that part of the conclusion, it is absolutely impossible to prepare a report. Because we just didn't get to that stage. As far as "Saphard" is concerned, as far as "Saphard" is concerned, it is quite clear to you that there is going and now the competition. There's going to be another contest. Therefore, the matter is still open for both negotiation and project negotiation. And the third thing, don't ask questions here for us, read what it says in the National Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87416	And another correction by the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87417	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I have to do to correct my colleague's quote because he says there's been a problem that the promoter thought when he suggested this. I say that there is no problem, because if we analyze what the promoters are saying, then we see that he meant exclusively, that they were thinking exclusively of their own promotion. So let's say here's the first proposer wants to become foreign minister, then the competition from SDP, after that colleague Pero Evo wants to become a multiple minister of several ministries, then a colleague of Lesar's supply supplies as far as I've heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87418	Thank you. Now we're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87419	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Interpletion signed by parliamentarians on the government's work in the area of pre-accession funds I must say is unfounded and unargumented. Interpellation states: “The pre-accession funds of the European Union are not used.” The interpretation also expresses extreme concern with the government's carelessness and indifference that the funds in question are being used, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is denying its citizens for significant development. I will answer each of these unargumented false things. More than 300 seminars and lectures were held on the topic of the European Union's assistance programme, pre-accession funds and how to write projects in accordance with EU procedures. In 2006, over 450 lectures on EU funds, permanent TV shows, propaganda materials and presses. All information in the Law on Confirmation of Financial Agreements, which clearly stated that the rights of funds could be obtained when and in what manner the negotiation procedure takes place, etc. He brought in the Croatian Parliament, and therefore these same signatories could read and inform themselves that they were interested. I wonder who's not interested in that. The government has been qualified in the interpretation as uninterested despite all the activities undertaken to establish the management of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union. An enormous effort and efforts by a large number of state administration bodies has been made, with the fact that the number of employees in the management of EU funds programmes and projects has increased from 120 people in 2004 to 513 people in 2007. The results achieved were granted to the system within the record time limit for work, accreditation by the European Commission. By gaining membership candidate status and gaining the right to use PHARE pre-accession instruments, ISPA and SAPARD requirements set before Croatia as a user of pre-accession programmes are increasingly complex especially in the part of the preparation of quality projects. Nevertheless, the Croatian state administration successfully responded to the challenges ahead, thus providing a total of 514m euros in the preparation of quality projects between 2000 and 2006. Furthermore, the amount allocated to Croatia for use in the next 4 years until 2010, with a total of 589m euros compared to the 514m she received over the previous 6 years, testifies that exceptional results have been achieved in the preparation of the project. Public recognition for its work on the establishment of institutional capacities for the implementation of the pre-accession programmes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been obtained from the European Commission in the form of authorisation for the transfer of powers to manage funds from the budget of the European Union. This was officially announced by European Commission President Barroso. The government of the Republic of Croatia has in no way shown an inconclusive attitude and disrespect of the legislative body but rather the opposite. Any financial arrangements necessary to ensure co-financing from the national budget have passed the adoption procedure at Parliament meetings. And in the end, I have to conclude that this interpretation is a bad attempt to deceive the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87420	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87421	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is a colleague, Zubovic, who specifically stated that over 300 seminars were held in 2005. In 2006, over 400 lectures on the subject of European funds, but failed to tell who the participants were. So I want to actually just supplement this part of it, so I'm going to say that the participants are over 750 seminars only in the period from 2005, 2006 and this activity continues in 2007. So, participants in these seminars, lectures were state administration bodies, regional and local authorities and self-government, NGOs, crafts and economic chambers, journalists, students, teachers, students and other target groups. So, when indeed tendingly and untruely about interpelication is talking about the government's lack of interest in getting to know its citizens about the opportunities stemming from the use of European funds, then it should be said that this is a pure untruth and public deception. What do you say after 750 lectures? Or the fact that among these 750 lectures 350 of these lectures was exclusively related to the possibility of using the SAPARD pre-accession fund. So, the one that's talking about agriculture that we just heard about before from a few predecessors. So 350 lectures on the topic of SAPARD and that for these powerful groups, for all those who are potential users and not just for them, but for all the media. It should, too, not mention the emissions on national television of the euro alphabet, etc. So a lot has been done and indeed there is a lot of will and desire and this desire and will of the Government to meet our citizens about European funds is best read through these activities. Well almost daily means, more than one daily in the last two years, one lecture was every day de facto. Therefore, do not deceive the public, do not say what is not true. That's why there's no need to access this case this way. And speaking of which, I'm going to read one part about ISPA. So, with ISPA, we can say next. The period of the contract is under way. It is only after that that there is a period of implementation of the agreed projects, which means that there are no unused projects and no unused funds. If there's something going on, we can't talk about any unused projects, nor can we talk about unused funds. Based on what we can speak if the contract is ongoing. So it's a process that just follows. So let's not deceive the public in this way that you're trying to talk about the government's lack of interest, to get to know the citizens, to realize the projects. It's just not true. It's not true, and it's certainly one of the fundamental reasons why this whole thing needs to be thrown away by this impellacy of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87422	Thank you. Next replica, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87423	Well, here's a esteemed colleague. I'd like to add a few more things. Namely, when we were staying, here are five representatives in Brussels where there was a seminar on pre-accession funds, the Brussels team just gave us lecturers from the countries and from which we are mentioned today. So from Hungary, Slovakia, Poland. And when we saw what problems they had in using pre-accession funds, then it was much clearer to us. We're comparing them to us today. They're in there, and we're out. They have far easier access to all these funds, far greater help than we and I know that our diplomacy and then all these people who are in negotiations are waiting far, far bigger and harder work than they are waiting for. So I'm not saying, it's not fair to compare us. Second question. How much is it really our fault that there is a relatively small percentage of people who want to join the European Union? So we often, just in our rhetoric, so our way of showing the relationship between the European Union and Croatia stories about the sale of Croatia, stories about the majority of the European Union already, etc. We're just developing this reluctance. And I think you should tell me here first. It's normal for us to play last night I don't know Chelsea and Liverpool, that one club is Russian, the other is American. And that's all right. And with us if anything strangers buy, it's over, it's a tragedy, it's a sale. You'd rather talk to those who sell because they're too easy to sell, not just islands that started earlier, but sell everything around them without asking who's buying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87424	The next replica, respected representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87425	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a colleague who mentioned the work of our administration. During this debate, it can be heard that this administration is too numerous to count more than 500 people. However, the very philosophy of the use of access funds, the tender procedures were prescribed by practically a guideline through the procedure of negotiating assistance to EC third countries, and the procedure is absolutely not under the Public Procurement Act, as regards Croatian laws. The procedure also prescribed deadlines of 6, 9 and 12 months. So I don't think it's right for the administration to attack as well as the excessive and also incompetent because it really behaves as the EU directive requires. Here's a couple of data regarding the SAPARD, too, why it wasn't used. However, 8.6 SAPARD's benefits in the first round are much more than the rest of the countries are also in the first competition. However, the SAPARD lasts until 2008 and certainly 25 million EU funds, as well as our 8 million will certainly be spent. Because the SAPARD second competition has some changes. However, the establishment of the SAPARD Agency for... SAPARD agencies in other countries took more than 2 years for Croatia to do so in 17 months, the fastest of all countries to 26.7 means up to the 1st tender. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And also the adoption of a plan for agriculture and rural development in Croatia lasted 7 months, in all other countries it lasted 12 months and more. And while the conclusion of the multiannual financing agreement with the European Commission took everyone a year, Croatia did so within a month. Because, in parallel with the plan, it also brought the conclusion of the agreement. So regardless of the number of administrations, it's simply an administration that needs to implement this whole thing. And I think she's going to have to increase for all these projects. And it certainly was effective for this good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87426	And the next replica, the esteemed representative of Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87427	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. You know what this looks like, this debate right here? It's like whispering or winking a blind man. It is precisely here in the Interpelation on the Government's obligation to report every 6 months to the Croatian Assembly on spending, the use of pre-accession funds of the European Union and what has been used and what has not been used. And since you're talking about lectures, you could have held 750 thousand lectures. But the result of what Interpol is about is zero. Why is it zero, why is it zero? Well, it's clear. And it's not the government's fault that it's zero. The government doesn't do what it does or what it does, and when you don't work, you can't be guilty. And that's the result. And that is so, the pre-accession strategy has planned 245 million for PHARE, for ISPA, for SAPARD in the period 2005-2006. So are those in Europe beatings when they planned it. And we used what, 10% or 24% of it. Here, and now we're talking about that these reports aren't necessary. And it's quite clear what we're talking about. 245 million were planned, and 24% of that was spent. ... A, the plan, yes, yes, the plan, you know very well what the plan is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You learned that by playing at the theater.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87428	Dear representative, answer, replica, reply to the replica Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87429	You shouldn't lose your patience and insult your colleague Fran like this. He could play nice for you, so we'd be in a better mood, we wouldn't be so nervous. And on, you'd like to be in this Interpellation saying that we're saying what you'd like. Well, you won't hear that. We won't say what you want. And you'd like to say something here that isn't... Come on a little louder, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, buddy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87430	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87431	You wanted to say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87432	Okay. Don't encourage and invite representatives. That's what I think the chairman should do. It's in his area.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87433	And they can talk to me?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87434	I can't do it to you either. We shouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87435	Then stop them, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87436	Let's go, keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87437	You gentlemen would like us to say what you imagined. Here you have made an idea that the Croatian government is not doing well. And that's not true for you gentlemen. You have in the House a National Committee that monitors negotiations, which monitors everything that happens in the European Union, and that National Committee has always given a passing assessment to negotiating teams, government efforts, negotiators. Now you'd like to turn it all around. It simply won't work, but don't get upset, don't attack your colleagues, not us who don't agree to your interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87438	Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87439	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the interpretation of the government's work on the use of pre-accession European Union funds, the proposings highlight the concern of the government's carelessness and lack of interest in making use of funds from pre-accession funds. The institutional measures referred to in the report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia show that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken very seriously access to the construction of a system for the management of European Union programmes through the implementation of a series of activities prepared by the State Administration for the work on those programmes, thus showing concern and interest in the use of funds from pre-accession funds. I recall that in October 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an action plan for the use of pre-accession programmes, and the results of the efforts made are evident in the fact that the Croatian State Administration successfully and quickly resulted in accreditation for the financial management of the European Union funds. Further, on 9 June 2006, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an activity plan for the use of the IPA pre-accession programme, and preparations are under way for the implementation of the European Commission accreditation for the management of these aid instruments. In order to ensure the necessary assistance for the implementation of the measures provided for in the Accession Partnership and in the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has directed activities towards strengthening the absorption capacity for the use of Community aid and the use of the funds available to it under the CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPHARD programmes as well as with regard to the use of the new IPA programme. It is clear that the government is fully aware of the need for the proper functioning of this system not only because of the funds obtained through pre-accession programmes, but also because of the preparation for the use of funds financed by the cohesion policy of the European Union, and Croatia will have access to them after membership. The strengthening of the pre-accession assistance system ensures not only the economic impact through the possibility of economic strengthening the competitiveness of production in the Republic of Croatia and achieving economic social cohesion, but also building on the institutional capacity and necessary personnel to make use of as much of the funds offered by Union membership as possible upon entering the EU. The European Union programmes shall be established and implemented through a very demanding system composed of different institutions of the European Union and of the beneficiary countries. In doing so, the European Commission has established the basic conditions for which the beneficiary country needs to meet in order to manage these funds in a quality way. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has examined the practice of the current candidate countries in which implementation systems have already been established. These requirements include two institutional aspects, the appointment of persons responsible for managing EU aid. And two, the establishment of administrative capacities of the institutions involved in fund management. With its report, the government has demonstrated that the efforts to ensure a sufficient number of staff to work on funds have been continuously made, resulting in an increase in the number of employees in the management of the programmes and projects in question from 120 people in 2004 to 513 in 2007. Also, with an increase in the number of officials working on the implementation of pre-accession programmes, significant efforts have been made in their systematic education. A number of 4000 500 participants from the body of the state administration, units of local and regional self-government, NGOs, crafts and chambers of commerce who participated in more than 300 different seminars, workshops, courses are listed. Public recognition for its work in the field of institutional capacity building for the implementation of the pre-accession programmes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been granted by the European Commission in the form of an authorisation to transfer the powers to manage the funds. The European Commission auditors assessed the implementation systems for PHARE and ISPA programmes in the Republic of Croatia did not find any blocking findings. By entrusting its resources to the authorities of the State Administration of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission has confirmed that the system established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is transparent, quality and efficient. It is of paramount importance to retain such good results during the implementation of the IPA programme since the system of implementation and knowledge and experience gained through it will depend on the ability of the Republic of Croatia to absorb cohesion and agricultural policy instruments after EU accession. The key factor in this is to maintain political support for the implementation of projects, but also to continue in this report the government's policy on employment and the retention of highly educated and specially specialised civil servants whose work depends on the quality of the results. In line with the report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which rejects interpretation, interpretation of a pardon about the government's work in the field of pre-accession funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87440	Thank you very much. Replica, dear colleague Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87441	So look, colleague Stengl and other colleagues from the ruling majority, we differ here in one important thing. So you're trying to talk about form all the time, and we're trying to talk about content. If we talk about the amount of seminars held for SAPHARD then we can say that there were so many of them, but if we talk about what the result of these seminars is then we can't be satisfied, then we can say that the form is done, but that the assessment is bad. You're saying I don't know 500 hours of something, but the result is bad. There has been no talk here today about anything that creates at this time a major problem for successful local self-governments that have managed to get some projects. For example, the town of Koprivnica received two projects from "Interect 3a". One is called the Pannonian Palette, the decision came from the European Union in November. We received the contract in February because it came to a decentralised decision. To this day, unfortunately, we have not yet received part of the money that was to come from this fund, although the project has begun since 1.1 this year, it lasts 13 months. Our Hungarian partner received a decision in November, in November he received a contract for it and in 1.1 he received money for the implementation of the project. So the decentralised decision-making process in Croatia is six months late. Secondly, Interect 3A Adriatico's decision came in December, contracts haven't arrived yet, our Italian partners have begun to implement the project, unfortunately we can't start following them in these joint activities because our share in the Ministry of Finance has not yet delivered to us either the contract or the money to implement that programme. So we can really say what fellow Matesic says is one process, so it takes an enormous amount of time and we don't have reports, which is why it's in this situation. And if we were to be honest, then we should say that we really didn't take advantage of everything we could, that the process took too long and that the administration in our country was still not effective enough to monitor the projects our cities and municipalities got. You can shake my head, I've said two very specific examples, and you...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87442	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Replication response, colleague Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87443	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Mršić, here is the mention of this first seminar. It is a large number, it's an impressive number, but that doesn't mean everyone's satisfied at those seminars. ... Well, as many of them go to college and don't finish, that's all. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Not everyone... well maybe that's why, and maybe that's why the programs are incomplete, maybe and that's why the programs aren't accepted because they've been done insufficiently. Because you're gonna let all those funds still aren't Caritas to show up there and say listen, I need pants and pants and so give me the money. It's a little different doing it all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87444	Replica, dear colleague Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87445	Thank you. Here I am going to relate to this subject of education, through seminars, through lectures, so I will actually retaliate all those who, unfortunately, today in the 21st century, are no longer in the assembly, that knowledge is not necessary. That the knowledge given through lectures, which is educated by people who should apply and who should appear in these competitions, here today we have people in the Parliament who think it's nothing, that the result is zero. Well, it's not the result of that zero. It's not because of the concrete results, and it's not because of the fact that the contests last. A fellow Mrs. SAPARD is in the course of the competition, another competition involving mushrooms he spoke about just before, so that those who deal with the breeding of mushrooms do not think it is and that it is impossible to finance it, it is not true, so you are spreading the truth. My colleague Lesar said that mushrooms can't be done, and now there's a competition where mushrooms can be financed, mushrooms can be grown. So we don't need that kind of exposure to the public. The other thing people who will apply really need to know the procedure. The procedure is complicated, but the procedure was not determined by the Croatian Parliament. It is a procedure that has been adopted by the European Union, by those who have made such funds available to their agricultural policy. So this is about the European Union's agricultural policy when we talk about SAPARD. We can't chase the concepts of what you're constantly doing during today's entire debate. You're chasing negotiations with pre-accession funds, that's two separate things. They basically have a connection and a connection, but here are two different topics. The SAPARD concrete programme is taking on another competition now, there will be another competition, therefore we cannot talk about the implementation of the SAPARD programme until the tender process is completed, followed by only the negotiation and implementation of the projects. So come on, be a little more serious and more specific when you talk about facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87446	Replication response, dear colleague Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87447	I thank my dear colleague for these supplements, because I do not think it is ever about this subject, to mention that the regulations depend not on the regulations of the Republic of Croatia but on the regulation of the implementation of this regulation by the European Union and we must stick to it. Of course, in order to make it easier for us to get the money, we would go with our own method. No, those methods are prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87448	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87449	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state. Here may be the best debate this morning speaking best for itself. In fact, if the reports had arrived, there would probably not have been so much windiness around the interpretation today. Since Croatia signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and followed by large steps towards full membership in the European Union, the government has found less and less time to inform both the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament. On concrete measures and reforms taken to ensure that our membership in the Union takes place as quickly as possible and under the best possible conditions. Unfortunately, something similar has happened with NATO, but if the average citizen does not have the opportunity to hear better regular information about the European Union now, it seems that even parliamentary MPs are no longer entitled to seek what this Assembly itself has brought to its conclusion, it is reported regularly. I'm sorry, I may be wrong, but this is still about parliamentary democracy. How are things? So on 6 October 2005, at the 16th session, the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of the National Fund between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission was adopted as a legal basis for the regulation of any further relations for the use of all pre-accession European Union funds, whether SAPARD, PHARE or ISPA on the basis of which the project will be approved, the approval of projects under individual programmes and the signature of specific financial agreements. In addition to the said Memoranda Confirmation Act, the Croatian Parliament has reached a majority of votes that obliges the Government to submit a more detailed report on the use of pre-accession funds and on planned and unused programmes. I note that because we've talked a lot about that name today. Since more than 15 months have passed since that day, the question is, what is the problem? Whether MPs are systematically ignored or simply unable to comply with their obligations. Since the 93-vote parliament has committed the government to this conclusion, the government is obliged to deliver the conclusion. I don't think there's any excessive dilemma that the government is actually not doing its job. The pre-accession European Union funds are actually one of the wonderful areas facing each candidate country. Why wonderful? In particular, the European Union offers and makes large grants available in order to facilitate the reform and adaptation of the candidate country and to facilitate its entry into the Union. These funds are allocated to three funds: ISPA for different infrastructure projects, PHARE for public administration and other services and SAPARD for agriculture. On the one hand, the use of PHARE, I think, is about 15m euros withdrawn, is somewhat satisfactory, although it has not always been that way. On the other hand, the areas for which we receive money from PHARE, which is the public administration, the judiciary and the problem of corruption, are these areas that are systematically neglected in reforms. We're witnessing it every day. All the reforms that have been made in the area so far do not show even the expected results, so the question is logically raised as to what we have spent this money on. Could he have used himself better? Why didn't he use himself? All these questions that answer are self-inflicted, and it's connected to this very interpretation, when you're not answering anyone, it's easier to hide your own unhappiness. Unfortunately for the government, times have passed when no questions were asked, yet some answers will be answered in time and perhaps here today. How is it possible that Croatia has the largest number of unsolved cases in the courts, the longest time to wait for cases to be solved? And at the same time, there are the largest number of judges per capita in Europe, except for Luxemburg, of course. How is it possible that we have so many public officials per capita over the average of the European Union and that they are so ineffective? And how is it possible that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not have the courage to solve these problems? Here, there was a colleague here today, palaric. Do you know maybe, in passing here, do you know that in the Central Office of the State we have one inspector for administrative proceedings, and only for the City of Zagreb would there be 10? The situation with the SAPARD pre-accession fund is even worse. Croatian farmers have only taken more than 12 million kunas from the SAPARD offered 245. Is bad use to blame very rigorous criteria? I'm sure they have their part in it, too. However, the biggest guilt is borne by a government that has not conducted the education of target groups sufficiently quickly, efficiently and quality. So we're not saying if 750 hours were made. We're talking about what effects the hours have caused you. It also says that the education of individual groups started two months before the completion of competitions for projects. From reliable sources, I have information about presentations organised by the Ministry of Agriculture through the Chamber of Commerce at County level and conducted in May and June, and the contest ended in August of last year. While they're... to collect, to collect data took more than that time left. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such things just can't happen anymore. The question arises for what reasons does the Government then spend our money on these presentations, when absolutely nothing after them can be done in a quality way? Why do we pay for such an education if the effects after conducting that education are so miserable? Now a few words about why this interpretation is extremely important? Let's start with legal and constitutional consequences. In fact, by not accepting this interpretation, he wants to undo the responsibility of the government itself that she has before the Croatian Parliament. This could have far greater consequences than some in the government might think right now. On the other hand, the importance of pre-accession funds for the candidate country is of paramount importance. We've decided to keep a tight watch on the use of these funds. And that's why we're looking for this report. However, this is not allowed in the right way. In addition to the good and negotiated conditions of entry and exploitation of funds, the most important aspect of the Union's full membership bid is the most important aspect. Making use of pre-accession funds training is a successful use of funds that will be available to Croatia when it enters the European Union. Pre-accession assistance serves to directly invest in the development priorities of Croatia and thus relieve the state budget, increase the absorption capacity of the public administration body and develops positive competition over the users of the programme. The absorption capacity is one of the indicators that structural funds will be exploited that will be made available to membership in the European Union. If we do not learn to withdraw funds from pre-accession funds today, we cannot expect to know how to withdraw these funds from the Structural Funds tomorrow, when we become a member of the European Union. And all investments such as the regional policy of the European Union are currently operating through such funds. In other words, if we do not learn, they need to use European funds, we cannot count on development in the future. How important these funds are, the best examples being made by Ireland and our neighbouring member country of Slovenia, she knew how to make it much more successful than our situation. Considering, I'd like to mention a few other things. She would mention something that could be called the government's non-communication strategy. In each step, it is visible from the extremely small allegations that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration has been working on, in order to explain the functioning of the European Union to people, to ordinary people, to the fact that the Government is nowhere to publish the results of the negotiations process with the European Union, when it is, for example, the European Union. temporarily closed one chapter. We will find ourselves today, tomorrow, that we will negotiate everything directly before the referendum and then we will get tons and tons of paper to consume in a very short time. Of course we won't be able to. As for secondary education and implementation, NGOs have been left to the authorities of the last decade of the association that have received numerous European awards for the education of programmes. It is similar to this programme which received the recommendation and the European Commission's exceptional financial assistance. For example, 20 thousand young people received 70,000 euros in kuna for education or education. And you know how much the Foreign Ministry has contributed to that? 40,000 not euros, but kuna. It means 10%. To say more, the Norwegian Government financed this project, which is certainly not in charge of youth education in Croatia, but was done by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And finally, as the current approach is, unfortunately, not always quality and we are not only discussing it here, but we are discussing the reports. Please, we're looking for reports on the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87450	Thank you very much. Corrections to an incorrect quote. First is the esteemed colleague Matušić. Here you go, buddy. Correction of an incorrect quote, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87451	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague said the citizens weren't regularly informed. Well, that's just not true. So look at national TV shows, look at radio stations both national and local. It's about media intelligence. Another thing about these lectures. So these 750 lectures I've said for target groups are both local and regional self-government, and journalists, and school age, so high school students, teachers and students etc. So there's the bodies of the state administration. There's a large population. They're craft chambers, chambers of the economy. So it's just not true. As for the SAPARD, you said it was not good that the SAPARD lectures were held in the 5th and 6th months and that the competition was at the 8th month. Well, that's just fine. The competition was opened in the 7th month, the first competition for SAPARD opened in the 7th month and lasted until the 10th month. Therefore, it is good that it was held in the 1st month two days before the tender itself to educate people, to know the best possible way to apply for the programme. And secondly, you're talking about the Sapard as if this part of the first competition was finished. Well, that's not true. The SAPARD lasts now, do not discourage those who are able to report today or tomorrow because the competition is ongoing, or those who will report to the next competition. You're talking like it's a real project.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87452	Thank you, dear colleague Matušić. Correction of the incorrect quote by counterpart Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87453	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the dear colleague presented a number of incorrect allegations when it comes to SAPARD. Just what counterpart Matušić said, so don't deceive the public that it's been used so much and that it's done. This program runs and lasts, and we know a lot of those who have responded and are in the process, and who have a great chance of taking advantage of those funds. On the other hand, it is incorrect that the use of pre-accession funds is an essential condition for receiving EU membership. That's incorrect. The example is Slovenia. Slovenia used very little funds when it comes to pre-accession funds from agriculture, so there were no problems with receiving EU membership. Let's not fool the public, we've gone too soon into pre-election actions that aren't doing well to just do exactly what we want, which is to use as much money as we can from pre-accession funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87454	Thank you very much. We have a replica. Dear colleague Poropat has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87455	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In her debate, counterpart Chichin-Shain also mentioned a large administration for the preparation of the seminar. Yeah. What is the purpose of the seminar for accessing European funds if the money from these funds is not used to a sufficient extent, is that right. I say what Mrs. Secretary of State said. The Istrian County has received some programmes just from pre-accession funds but thanks most to the Istrian County, people from Istria County who opened the Istrian County office in Brussels to be close to the source and with the help of the Foreign Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87456	The answer to the replica of the esteemed colleague Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87457	Thank you very much. Here, I would just answer that, within the framework of information and in the context of people's communication, the best fact about the amount of Euroscepticism in Croatia is how perfectly they are informed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87458	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87459	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. He is truly incomprehensible, incomprehensible and even worrying about the government's response and the behaviour of the ruling majority on this big problem. Look, this is a huge problem how and how to use the pre-accession European Union funds. And the main fact that the problem is being avoided by formalising what was in the conclusion and that 750 lectures, seminars, were held, so that's the whole problem. That's the whole problem. So, in time, we want to point out that the problem is getting bigger and that clearly one whole strategy needs to be made, because this is the possibility for us to withdraw certain funds from pre-accession funds now in order to fix the situation in certain areas. But unfortunately, the government is running away from it. She's running away from the debate. Although the conclusion is clear, it deals with the issue of bargaining, it does not deal with the issue of exploitation. And then what message does it send to the Croatian nation, to Croatian citizens? Croatian citizens want a clear strategy that the Croatian government, the negotiating teams throughout this process, generally do on the one hand. And on the other hand, it seems that clearly, transparently and unequivocally Croatian citizens know how and how they can participate in getting these funds from pre-accession funds. If they listen to us today, they will understand little and little will be explained how and how to correct the situation. Be careful, the responsible government that takes care of it will not treat it this formalistically. I'm sure she's not going to be this formalistic, but let's just say that the government is responsible she would react completely differently to the interpretation. Interpelling is a treasure. Interpletion is essentially mild in relation to the problems in which Croatia, in which are Croatian citizens, is. Interpletion that we wrote would have been correct. Croatian people have no strategy to negotiate. Croatia only accepts, accepts everything that is sought either by individual members or by the European Union as a whole. And that's the strategy and that's why this Euroscepticism is growing. That's why it's growing because it's not even visible what it is and how it's done. And then we defend ourselves with this National Committee. He's pure ficus. Let's take what kind of authority he has. Tonči Tadić, a colleague, is a member. Whatever question he wants to raise, it's not a topic to discuss, it's to avoid debate. And then now we have really like the geese in the fog instead of the government realizing it. It is visible, so 750 lectures were held, shifts are minimal, no shifts. Minimal and no movement whatsoever. So be aware of these situations that many things are not right for us. Many things take place and debate outside the Croatian Parliament. We make our own mistakes from the beginner in terms of what all these funds can be used for when in the national... The government isn't contained. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've heard of truffles and other things, bees and other things. Instead of the government being smart, if it's responsible and says let's make a strategy, we'll come before the Croatian Parliament. Let's go over the chapters, all over the parts. And then what's going on won't happen. This is required by one responsible government, a government that takes care of its citizens and not only takes care of the interests of the European Union and its individual members. We know that you are taking care of it, don't explain it to us, the people see it on both the economic belt and the fishermen, and in terms of the sale of real estate, it really takes care but not Croatian care, not Croatian national interests. With the cards go out to the open game table and say we don't have a strategy, let's do it now. Let's make a strategy, don't put the negotiating teams of people who care whether they find a place in the European administration or the European Union administration someday. And that's what they're saying. It's open in the towers. The negotiators are telling you. They are not interested in the process, the course of negotiations, but in catching a place within the administration and bureaucracy. And who, then, is interested in the Croatian citizen, and what will he decide if you continue working like this? One day in the referendum, they won't have anything to decide on. Why? Because the European Union, beyond what Croatia's obligation to accept legal property in our legislation, will achieve as a whole and as individual members and those things that do not belong to this part. I ask myself, we have seen the situation, which was signed when it comes to the economic belt. Does this belong to legal property? It doesn't belong. And how, then, why did Croatia agree to that? Why did she say yes? Because he doesn't have his own strategy, which doesn't lead to his own national interest. The situation is very clear. This is normally funny to you, but it will be even more funny to the Croatian people today when they see what you have negotiated and what situation you have put the country in. Here, one means an irresponsible government behaves like this, and the responsible government accepts smart things from the opposition, installs and then presents the public as if it were hers. Here, that's the important difference between a responsible government and an irresponsible government when faced with problems. But this formalist approach is what's not contained, so we're negotiating, so this, that. You always make an appointment! The problems are, we're aware of the problems. The countries that have entered the European Union have seen how and in what way they have used these funds, but we are trying to take their experiences, we are trying to build in these experiences what we are facing but unfortunately nothing. Which is why there are these various visits, so the Prime Minister goes, so the minister, the minister, the one that should be banned from wearing pens at all, because we know what they've signed and in what way. Which is why it's all when in the end, when we were out there telling you the fundamental problem is that you don't learn from our mistakes, and we tell you where we're fucking around. Now we've just seen when the whole course and process is over. But we're telling you, and you're making even bigger mistakes. Here, therefore, draw the line and realize that this is only the beginning to seriously approach all these problems and finally, to take advantage of what is possible, so that in the end there is no “who has you, this one does not. ” So, you have a possibility, and you don't make anything happen, and then you say here's the Croatian citizens have a chance for pre-accession funds. How much did it use? Minimum. Will it be fixed according to this if it is, if this is how it is discussed, and if this is how the formalist becomes and the ruling majority refers to it, and the government itself has no movement there. Let's not deal with formalism! We are dealing with fundamentally, because we must respond to the Croatian citizens who are watching us and therefore this European skepticism is growing. At least take Carla del Ponte's tactics with Belgrade. Here you see, she was negotiating. True, to the harm of Croatia. So let's be serious. This can't go on like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87460	Now, let's first move on to correcting the incorrect allegations, and first in line is a respected colleague, Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87461	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Kovacevic, as always, is trying to use this space provided here to speak to tell a lot of these truths that he thinks might be useful to him somewhere and his party. However, very one of his statements that very few citizens will understand what we are saying here, because it is incorrectly so that none of those who are interested in using these funds from the fund will understand what we are talking about today, they will not understand anything because it was precisely the goal of those who have put up with the interpretation that no one understands anything, that we confuse them even more, and the government has just done everything from education of direct participants, from experts to implementation, from media space to those who have to participate in the use of these funds are local administrations, entrepreneurs, businesses, so that they can make the sooner and more meaningful use of these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87462	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87463	I would correct the allegations of fellow MPs when he said speaking to the government. Take care of strategic interests for the good of the European Union, and do not worry about strategic interests for the good of Croatia. This is not true because this would make it clear that the interests of the European Union and Croatia are significantly different. They are consistent with the vast majority of plans and projects such as security, such as better life, such as the rationalisation of the state administration, and this is why these pre-accession funds go after it, and therefore the government also works to perfect, improve, rationalise different economic but administrative entities. Therefore, it is not true that these interests differ. They match up to the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87464	Correction of the incorrect quote by counterpart Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87465	Thank you. Already one piece has been corrected, but I will correct the part that my colleague Kovacevic incorrectly stated that we are not using other countries' experiences related to the use of these funds from pre-accession funds. That's just not true. My colleague, there are tweeting programs, there are experts from countries now members of the European Union who are regularly visiting Croatia and who regularly advise on how best possible means can be used, which are the best possible conditions. So it's absolutely not true. There are experts from Slovakia, Malta, from other European Union countries who are now members of the European Union who have negotiated in recent years, which entered in 2004. Therefore, do not say anything that is not true, something that is not true. We use all the best experiences of other countries that were in the same situation as Croatia today. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87466	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87467	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, it is incorrect that Mr. Honorable Representative Kovacevic says the government does not have any strategy to manage the funds and to run for its projects. In fact, in this interpretation, and otherwise in the system of work, the Government has given independence to all those who want and want to run for projects with these funds, which is actually what the Government has made possible. By creating institutions so that all counties can, means all units of local self-government through these institutions communicate with pre-accession funds and run for their projects. I will just remind myself of what all the practical counties in the obligation have, although unfortunately very few have come to have their regional, operational programmes in which they have expressed their priorities and given their projects for pre-accession funds. So the government has a strategy obviously and a way to bring together units of local self-government and projects with all pre-accession funds and their objectives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87468	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. The first in line is the esteemed colleague Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87469	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague Pero, with all the things you've said, I mostly agree, and what you've been saying about the government's responsibility and responsibility for our administration, so I'd say it like this. The European Union pays its administration to give Croatia as little money as possible. We pay our administration to withdraw the money for Croatia as much as possible. But it looks to me like these gentlemen are acting like they're on the Brussels payroll. Or to translate that into a folk dictionary, “when Europe says sit down, they immediately lie down. ” The proof of this is the division of Croatia into three statistical regions, where we lose several hundred million euros directly, we lose and we lose them because of this way, means because of their behaviour when Europe says sit down they lie down.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87470	Replica, dear colleague Zdenka Chuhnil has. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87471	Your Honor, I'm replicating an esteemed colleague, but first of all, I'd like to say that someone here today has already mentioned form and content. I think what we're talking about today is just talking about form. And as for the form, I think that's where the government has done its part. The seminars were just talking about how to prepare projects, about filling out forms, about showing economic indicators. But the seminars did not talk about the important content, and this content was to be spoken of by this Parliament and had no opportunity. And the content was just supposed to be that we're talking about priorities within individual funds. We missed that opportunity. And in particular, very, why are so many programs in the SAPARD programme and so many projects running? It is precisely because it is not covered by the SAPARD implementation Regulation, or Croatia has not even run for certain areas. I already mentioned here today, mushrooms, healing better, beekeeping, olives, vineyards. And right there are areas where Croatia, or Croatian agriculture, could have done the most. We are an opportunity, i.e. we are not given an opportunity in Parliament to just point out what the priorities are in agriculture, we would probably state this and work and resources could be used for it. Unfortunately, that's not indicated here. In particular, we have indicated that we can use, say, to run for waste management projects. But one farm that doesn't have a manure can't use the means to build manure, it can only be equipped because it's a regulation. And the mass of projects here has been eliminated precisely for those reasons that the ministry hasn't given itself enough effort. I repeat again about the priorities, but it also does run as many segments of agriculture as possible where we actually have the opportunity to take steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87472	Replica response, dear colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87473	Well, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues. Well, that's exactly what I was talking about, that the government, meaning all of these situations and the problems that we're talking about today are running into formalism and the answer is whether it was or wasn't in... Instead of understanding your role and tasks and accepting this debate as well as you who are in the ruling majority as well-intentioned that this situation would not happen again in the year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that the situation would not happen if Croatia were one day the lowest on the scale when it entered the European Union if it had not used 50%. And that's easily possible, given this, everything we've heard today and how this whole process and the course is going on. And the government just runs away from it, so we started this, we started it, we got nothing to do with it. Well, that's the role and task of the government. So how are the negotiations then? We've seen that before. So let's do something systematic so it doesn't happen anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87474	Replica, dear fellow Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87475	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Certainly, when Mr Kovacevic said that this government does not have a clear strategy, that the funds of pre-accession funds are being used insufficiently, I would try to continue, and also because of the relationship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament whose conclusions are not clearly carried out by the Government. And the information on the recent division of the Republic of Croatia into three spatial units brought by the State Statistics Office since 27 March 2007. Despite the fact that the Croatian Parliament accepted the project by way of a conclusion, the June 2003 statistical unit nomenclature has never been changed. This decision by the State Statistics Institute 5 of Croatia's north-west county would lose around 160m euros annually. And that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is simply silent about it. And God forbid that a new project should be referred to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and that, if necessary, changes the existing conclusion that has not been changed so far. Well, that's exactly what it says about the government's relationship to the Croatian Parliament. If in 2003 the Croatian Parliament discussed the statistical division of the Republic of Croatia into 5 spatial regions, and today we already have a new division, and that we did not discuss it here, then I do not know what the government's relationship to the Croatian Parliament is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87476	Replication response, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87477	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. You know what the government's relationship to the Croatian Parliament is. This isn't the only conclusion the government doesn't agree with. We have conclusions and conversions and privatisations, nothing has been done. We're talking about a number of other conclusions, it's a dead letter on paper for them, it's a question of when it comes to whether it's who reads it or just puts it in a drawer. Because the government is slowly de facto trying to introduce Croatia into the office system. The government is above Parliament, the government is above all else, and if there's anything good here, it's the government. If you don't, listen to this Parliament needs to discuss it, the Parliament didn't tell us. Let's say he discussed these problems with the National Committee. He wasn't discussing the National Committee. It was not discussed by the National Committee, and therefore the government went cunningly, and this National Committee will be established. He normally used it here, normally that all of them were for Croatia to come in one day, to join the European Union, but after that nothing. And then she does what she does. We know nothing about it, and the Croatian people are even less. And then you don't have to be surprised at what he's like today's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87478	Replica, dear fellow Stazic has. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87479	There are two kinds of people. First, they're people who do what they have to do, which is their duty. And other kinds of people who have an excuse why they didn't do what they had to do. We have one finding. Pre-accession funds should be used to a sufficient extent. They've been used to an insufficient extent. The grade is insufficient. How's the government acting? She instead of answering why the funds aren't filled enough, why they're not filled enough she's saying what they've done. As a student who hasn't learned for the exam, he has to fall, so instead of answering the professor's questions he says and look at the professor I've been studying anyway, so you know I've been studying, I've been studying. And you studied, but you didn't learn, you don't know about the exam. The grade is insufficient. That's how the government behaves. They say and look, we've organized 750 lectures, seminars. And who did they train? Why, are the funds withdrawn in... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, they're not. So why hasn't the Government reported to the Parliament all these months that she had an obligation to report? Well, because as a bad student, he was postponing exam deadlines. So they're not ready for that exam, so they never came. And now they're acting the same way. Instead of answering the question why they're not, why they're incompetent, they say they've tried. And you know something else. You're talking here as well as others about the government's and parliament's relationship. Well, this isn't the government's and parliament's relationship. This is the relationship between the European Union and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia where the mediators rule. And the government did not intervene well in the interests of the citizens of this country. She didn't do her homework. The fact that she didn't inform, and Parliament only says that about the government's relationship with the Parliament, but we know about him.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87480	Reply to the replica, dear colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87481	Well, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleague, I would prefer that there are people in the government and everywhere in Croatia who know and want to do the job they need to do. Also when you talk about this part to talk about the relationship between the EU and citizens where the government should be a mediator, we have a government that is a bad mediator. And now you're going to see how the government goes on in its inconclusive and incomprehensible situations. A fellow Letica submitted a debate on poverty. And then the government says, "The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal to hold the debate." Here! And that's where you represent the government. So that's where the government says it doesn't accept the proposal at all, but it can't be held when the proposal is referred to the procedure. Here's the answers. And then who does the government protect? Just yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87482	Replica, he's got a respected colleague of Kurt's. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87483	Kola Kovacevic said the government had no intention of doing anything about this is focused instead of seminars that even experts did not understand should have been done by expert teams. Who will directly assist in programmes for farmers, cattlemen and others who do not have time or enough expertise to do the job on their own. If the government had taken it seriously, then, with those teams teaching around, they would have made teams that would directly help farmers and cattle farmers who are neither ordinary nor professional, nor have time to do so. So, and this success that the government has achieved with what they've pulled out is what I mean, the maximum it could achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87484	Reply to the replica, dear colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87485	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. Well, that's what I expected the government to realize that this policy and this, under quotes, doing business for pre-accession funds is not good. It's not good. Which of those who have appeared, we see that a large number has appeared, and only a small number of projects have been accepted. Who's gonna be calling in the future? Who's gonna be calling in the future? The main thing to expect is that those who are in trouble will come forward. Which should have been helped in the sense that they could at all be the ones who could, uh, get the funds and withdraw towards the projects. But obviously it's important for the seminars to be held. There are seminars held. What's the point of the seminar? Looks like it's just for maintenance so far. And there's no concrete shift in terms of these seminars, in terms of help, in terms of teams of these 500 and something, tomorrow there's going to be 1,000 how many administrators, to specifically help a man, a firm, a company. So to finally move on, you make this important step to make it more and more ready and ready to enter and you can not only negotiate the funds but use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87486	Thank you very much. Replica, dear colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my piece of the replica, I'm going to connect to the part where my colleague Kovacevic said that if it continues this way that Croatia will end up with the lowest rate of use of the funds. Well, your colleague and later in your debate, you have often looked back on only one pre-accession fund, which is "Saphard". You didn't look back at what was done and what was specifically done. And specifically, the only "Cards" was completed in 2003. And it was completed in July last year by negotiating projects. So these projects haven't been realised yet. But the deal is 98.4%. So almost 100% use. Let's not say it's 2005. The European Union, the European Commission allocated an additional EUR 7 million for the quality of the projects. So we had the opportunity to withdraw 80 million kuna, 80 million EUR. Croatia has received an additional EUR 7 million for these same projects. So when you talk about "Saphard" "Saphard" program and projects is only currently in the tender stage. So we had one contest that you were talking about. Now we have another competition and we will have another competition for projects related to "SAPHARD". Only after that will we be able to know the quality of the projects and how many projects can be realised. Furthermore, it is not the Government that will fill out the forms set by the European Union. The procedure, the procedure for the forms and the fill-in of the forms has been determined by the European Union according to their agricultural policy. According to their agricultural policy. Therefore, we are not the ones who can change the procedure that is set. We're not you. Neither has anyone before us who has negotiated with the European Union or who has had the opportunity to access European funds nor has any of them changed the procedure. So there's no possibility of changing procedures. What is most important is to educate people how to report projects in the best quality way, apply and get funds. And "Cards 2003" is the best example that ended in July last year where 98.4% of agreed projects It's best used, and everything else will wait. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87488	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87489	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, my colleague has been mixing pears and apples all day. He keeps talking about the contract, we're talking about the used one. So that's knowingly mixing pears and apples. One thing's agreed, the other one's used. And I guess it's the government that needs to make assumptions. It's her constitutional role and her assignment. It means conjecture. Not that she's filling out the forms. This is what it does when the European Union is looking for. We know it's coming true. And here, at least, to find people who will help people who are reporting to help meet their program. ... Now, that's what needs to be done. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's the purpose and role of the government. So we know that it fills out the forms when the European Union, Slovenia is looking for something. It seems right away, the Slovenian parliamentarian said, "We have problems. The Slovenians cannot buy real estate." The government said, "We immediately settled this, we are going to a bilateral agreement on reciprocity." Thus, we will likely continue to fulfill all these roles and assignments. But the role of the government is to create conditions, to make a strategy so it doesn't be such a bad situation. Don't mix pears and apples, I'll tell you that another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87490	Thank you very much. The word has a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary Mrs. sc. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87491	So allow me a few notes, comments, clarifications. The debate on whether the government was enough and whether she was smart enough, whether she was doing her job well enough, I'd like to draw your attention to the following. I wouldn't even get into that grade. I represent the government, and then it's clear how I feel about it. But I want to draw attention to you that the pre-accession fund management process is a new process that started in 2004. And that it is necessary to study his qualities, that all the requirements that are being made before us should be delivered, in order to actually be tried metrically, because the government is doing something right or not doing it right. Because this is about the process in which the European Union makes certain money available to Croatia and then does not give it in a way that no longer asks or gives it, without having previously asked whether this money is used for what the European Union thinks should be used. In fact, I would like to conclude that the concern and the momentliness of which the European Union is following each of its kunas is certainly something that we need to apply more widely in state money matters, and pre-accession funds do not serve for development purposes. So to say that pre-accession is intended for development projects in Croatia is simply not exactly because we would not want it but because the European Union did not define it that way. They serve to help the accession process, to help Croatia solve certain administrative problems related to the accession process, and part of these funds is actually used to learn and gain experience during membership when real money flows can be said to serve development purposes. But what I want to say is, in this whole process, Croatia is not alone and this process is in no way adapted to the way and the way we see reality. The financial flows here are no matter what they think of it, they are not subject to negotiations. But the conditions of financial conditions, procedures and processes to be taken are not subject to negotiations. Therefore, to say that we are engaged in the negotiation process and not in the exploitation of the projects does not say anything, because the tendering process and which ends in the contract process is part of the process to reach the phase of implementation of the project, and this process is a tender process for goods and for the purchase of construction works takes a minimum of 120 days. The regulation is prescribed here the mentioned threshold, prescribes a minimum in the number of days it takes and says not to take this step before it expires for a minimum of 60 days. For a minimum of 120 days it's 4 months plus... the evaluations of the delegation that evaluates and evaluates every step, every paper, each document answers the question why one simple, relatively simple tendering procedure lasts 9 months no matter what we do. Because if the steps in the process are meant not to do anything before the minimum expires for so many days then unfortunately, that's how it is. About the strategy. I would not worry about the strategy, in particular I would not worry about the strategy in this section concerning agriculture because the SAPARD programme is being implemented on the basis of a plan for agricultural and rural development in 2005/2006. made by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Administrative Directorate for SAPARD, but not only. What is really important is to say that this strategy, as well as all the strategic documents defining the way and use of European funds, has been adopted in the process of so-called ". Partnership consultations involving all government and non-governmental institutions, which in some ways concerned and had opportunities to say. Whether they said and suggested mushrooms at that time, we don't know, but in the second competition, the strategy was corrected in that sense. So the strategy as well as what that money will be spent on exists, but the strategy is limited by the framework set by the Union, unfortunately there is no too much space. Seminars and product quality are the last thing I want to refer to. Yes, seminars were held, but the choice in the contest is not an impression issue. The competition seeks liquid liquidity, the profitability of the project, and requires very hard data. Apparently, even those who evaluated it had little space to evaluate on the basis of some impressions, just on the basis of the firm criteria that I think Agent Cain was talking about here. Therefore, this once again confirms that we would actually be successful in using these funds, both today and when we are a member, then these projects must be quality and the companies that report to the competition must be successful. These are not support for the weak, for those who fail at the competition. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. Support for those who are having a difficult time with the competition will remain a national budget. Therefore, educational activities will continue and at this pace that has been working so far, hopefully better, can always be done better. However, national authorities cannot prepare projects. Here, one of the MPs said why not start expert teams to prepare projects. This would result in a return of funds to the budget of the European Union. This would result in the fact that colleague Zigman should actually report such a procedure to the commission as an irregularity, because it is simply forbidden. Those who conduct the tender procedure, those who evaluate projects, that is, the SAPARD Agency or the Executive Agency in the Ministry of Finance, cannot and must not participate in their preparation. So the only thing left for us, we're left with seminars, all that documentation, question, answer, instructions that are on the Ministry of Agriculture's website and that can be obtained from the Ministry of Agriculture and respect for the tender documentation. Because I think someone also said 90% of the projects were rejected at the first SAPARD competition because the documentation was incomplete. Yeah. If one cannot submit complete documentation, then you can hardly expect the agency to grant support on the basis of which criteria. Well, thank you very much, but I wouldn't go any further. I hope I've at least been able to clear up some of these concerns.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87492	Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87493	Just for a little while. I am correcting Mrs. Secretary of State's allegations that this is about the process, or the process of negotiation, negotiation and anything. Madam State Secretary in this interpretation is only one substance, disrespecting the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament by the government, the absence of two reports and nothing else. All you were saying now was supposed to be an integral part of the report. The impelation is that you have failed to fulfil the commitment that you, on behalf of the Government in this House, have accepted and no one else.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87494	Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87495	Not only incorrect, but also an unusual statement by Mrs. Dalic that these programs are not really development programs. So what is the development or assumption of development rather than the development of infrastructure projects such as transport and the environment, which is an integral part of the ISPA programme, a structural adjustment which is also a presumption of development, without talking about the SAPHAARD programme which, in its name, I will translate it there, so the Special Access Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development. So it can be said that these programs are not development programs. That's what the rules show when you get the program. In order to be able to access the SAPHARD programme at all, the country must offer and then accept the European Commission's multiannual national rural development programme and for other national development programmes. Now he has compiled some other documents, but the assumption is that it would access these programs in the first place if you had development programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87496	Thank you very much. Now I'm setting up until 3:00 a.m. regular break, and at 3:00 we're going to continue the debate, the first one will be the honorary colleague... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87497	We're moving on with the session. It's time for the Honorable Representative, Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87498	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. If the Croatian Parliament draws a conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit a full report every 6 months to the Croatian Parliament on the use of pre-accession funds of the European Union, then that report should be submitted by the Government. It cannot be interpreted by the government as what happened in the government's statement whether it was by some other act, by some other activity in this House, the report was submitted, and then it will not be submitted because this report is a report written at a large table and has to be submitted to the Croatian Parliament. And we've been talking all morning about this elemental fact that we really shouldn't be talking about at all. And then, of course, since it's a form debate and we didn't have the opportunity to discuss the content because the report wasn't submitted, then under that debate on the form is actually a content debate, so a debate on the form is being debated, a debate on content is being held. And of course that makes it difficult to understand the whole process. And it's like someone's deliberately doing such an entanglement that you wouldn't actually be able to recognize what the form over which it comes to content and what the content itself is. Speaking of this interpretation, then, of course, it should be said that it was the government's obligation, that it would be good for the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public that this is not the first report, but that this is the third report on these issues because somewhere around this time, a third report on pre-accession funds of the European Union would fall. Well, then that third report would certainly be better than this report we filed. Of course, there will be debates about him. But this report, because first of all, is a lot of inadequacy and there will be speeches about it during the debate on the next item of the agenda. And the government says there was no need to file a report because the contracts for PHARE in 2003 were completed only in June 2006, and then there was nothing to report. That's not true. The whole process of using these pre-accession funds is very complicated for both the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament to have great interest in making this process as clear as possible and, of course, the process should have been reported to the Croatian Parliament on the complete process. And that was it. What should the Croatian Assembly be informed about? On the establishment of the bodies necessary for the use of the European Union funds. Fully and dynamically, not when it comes to the adoption of a law that sets up a body. So the Croatian Parliament always has a full picture of how we stand in this sense. Then the process of accreditation of these bodies. We had credentials for CARDS, for PHARE on February 17, 2006, ISPA 13th of February the same year and SAPARD on September 29th. The accreditation process is also an important process. A report was to be submitted to the Croatian Parliament on the process. The report on the procedure for education of civil servants was to be submitted. How this lasts, or how many people are involved, how the completion of these institutions is going, etc. A report on the knowledge of the education of state bodies, those to benefit from the European Union funds, various institutions and, of course, economic operators to benefit from the pre-accession funds of the European Union should be submitted. The project programming process was to be submitted. The process was under way after the parliament reached this conclusion since October 2005. A report on the project approval process, tendering for projects was to be submitted. And of course ultimately, the report on the dynamics of signing the contract. For CARDS in 2003, the complete process lasts 6 years. So, this program was formulated in 2003. In 2006, a contract was concluded, in June 2006, and the deadline for completion of the process and final payment was 31 December 2009. So, this program lasts for six years, as of course other programs do. And if they do not endure complete and simple, well-structured reports will absolutely not be possible to determine who is for some of the failures that have occurred, therefore organisationally I do not mean irregularities in terms of criminal activities, etc., so who is responsible for some organisational failures that will lead to the lack of funds being used? If we do not have a clear monitoring of the whole process, it will not be possible to determine. And of course the goal of all these reports is to know who's doing what and who's responsible for something, or who's responsible if some job hasn't done it? This is about how the SAPARD program is still under way, so I'm going to quote some colleagues who said, a colleague said, that program is going on and on. And the second fellow says, there's a second competition under way, and then there's a third. Well, isn't what this other colleague said? Shouldn't that be the content of the report? If we were in the course of the first competition, after the education of a thousand 400 participants in the first competition, then at the beginning of 2007, we had 10% of projects approved. Of the 51 projects, 5 were accepted, and out of 12 and a half million, 25 million euros the programme is carrying from the SAPARD were granted in the first round of the tender only 12 and a half million kuna, which is just slightly more than 5% of the total. So if we're going to call the tenders ten times and we're going to be able to spend 5% of the funding each time, then it's only 50% of the total funds spent, which is of course not enough. In addition, there is one time dimension, which is the fact that already another competition is being opened these days and that lasts four months. Therefore, his results will be known somewhere in August or September, the competition for the previous competition has been late for half a year. Half a year is not a little time to accept and start realising some projects. So it's also a dimension that's important. What is particularly problematic is what Mrs. Dalic's secretary of state confirmed that most of them who were not, whose programs were not accepted, the projects were not accepted in the first competition, and 90% of them said they did not complete the tender documentation. So what kind of educations these people have been to where thousands of 400 participants are, as it says here at the 31st seminar if 90% of those who reported to the competition were unable to complete the documentation. There's something wrong. And these are the questions that should be discussed and that should stand in each report. Thus, in the government's interpretation of the interpretation, it states that the funds put in place by it were fully used. The Republic of Croatia at its disposal as of course not possible. It is not possible because this process, as is said, takes place and at the same time in the report that we have received and which will be the next item of the agenda, is written only from the percentage of the contracted one can see how much funds have been used. Two contradictory sentences and such reports are reported, such formulations are not allowed and cannot be submitted to the Croatian Parliament. One writes that everything is used which is impossible because the final evaluation can be seen only when the programme is completed and when all the funds are withdrawn and here it is beautifully written "The full funds that the Republic of Croatia is made available to them have been used.", and this is written on page seven of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's report on impelation. And finally, to finish what I started. This is the decision of the Croatian Parliament. The government must not interpret whether any obligation made by the Croatian Parliament is binding or not, is it... Or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government must strictly comply with the decisions of the Croatian Parliament. And if we had the first report on the use of the pre-accession funds of the European Union a year ago when it could have been approximately in that period then it would have certainly been this report that we had been better and then the use of these programmes, projects and the period of accession to the European Union but also in the period after it was even more important because it would have been more resources, then that use would have been better. And that's why this interpretation was to be submitted. And already merely to point out this problem which the interpretation has certainly won already a good result for what is the ultimate goal in the Republic of Croatia, which is the use of all these funds, as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87499	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87500	Thank you very much. Mr. President, secretary, colleague and colleague. I'd like to make a few personal assessments of this interpretation without going into technical details how, why, when, the deadline and everything. So here I am also asking myself, in the introduction, the question and the conclusion that the committee chaired by the Committee on Finance and Budgets has considered both one and this next point. Now it is doubtful whether he should have been the parent working body or possibly the parent body should have been the Committee on European Integration. That doubt, I ask it because at least one or one if the parent is then the other should be interested in, or jointly consider this issue and, of course, bring its assessments about it. Secondly, I am also taking the liberty of asking my doubts and the question when this report, of course, taken by the Parliament, and the report has to be submitted, I will say something about it. As I know through the Committee on Finance and Budget, all the business reports in the country are now coming to order sometime in May, and I can also interpret that this report could have been an integral part of it, but in the period during which the country's business reports are being submitted, and then these reports relating to pre-accession funds, as it is only one segment of the relationship between Croatia and the European Union. Secondly, related to the interpretation itself or to the third and also indirectly related to the question of what is the cause and what is the content. It is true that the Parliament has reached a conclusion and I personally hold that the Government should have submitted a report, at least with what happened in the preparation section and whatever it says about the funds used in the interpelation. So it's not the same preparation and use of funds. And if that's true, then I'm starting from this interpretation which, of course, is the right of representatives or those who have signed and all others to actually use that report as a cause and not as a cause of the situation in which we found ourselves. This is, however, the difference in which we have now found ourselves, and there is a brief need to discuss it, and why it has come to this and what this report has to contain. There has been a lot of debate today and I will as one of the small participants earlier in this preparation process express my opinion of course on that preparations at least at two levels have been carried out. One is at the level of state and state projects and the other is preparing at the level of local administration, self-government, etc. So I'm one of the coordinators who participated five years ago, six years ago I think I'm in preparation for making what is first or among the first in Croatia so-called. The ROP Regional Operational Programme, which was developed at the time and with all associations and with the European delegation and fully harmonised. Therefore, at that time he could run any of the projects that were listed in this. There can't be an excuse for other units that haven't made preparations to say e The government is guilty of it or someone else is guilty of it. Of course, we could have discussed it six months ago or in the next report, so we'll be able to distinguish what someone was doing in that preparation. Therefore, no one has prevented a large part of the programme from being prepared during this period by preparing, and especially in the part where the companies are, and I would say in a joke that if the Government and what was an allusion here today were also doing technical assistance directly in the preparation of the projects so that it could be put under the quote of course issues of conflict of interest of Lekino, European or other commission. So the government can't get into direct technical preparation in this, but it needs to coordinate, absolutely, that this degree of education, the way of informing the public and everyone else. It would also be unattractive if people who work professionally on this gave certain instructions indirectly, of course, and not in the direct preparation of projects that are then being run because the government, through the institutional preparation carried out by the bodies and the individuals, has tasked them and now these same bodies that are preparing, which later call for tenders, selection of projects and so on, supervision and everything else could not then be the creators or the participants themselves in the process. I guess that makes it perfectly clear that in this sense we could not ask these double questions. Equally, when we discussed each time in preparation, and the laws regulated the certificates of the contracts that the Government had made as a preparation with the European Commission or delegation that we had in each of the discussions, and precisely because each of these proposals had been re-provided to go to the home working body, so we took the right, the Finance Committee, that we were in preparation, but also Parliament here also had opportunities to discuss not only this project but also that it was a reason to discuss it, and often it was a reason to discuss the situation and the stage at which we found ourselves in relation to the use of these pre-accession funds. It is equally important to remind that this process in the first stage, I will simplify the story, again, by not entering technical projects of a particular, simplifying the story that in the first stage, especially in the "Cards 03" but also in other projects in that first phase, we directly sent projects to the European Commission that needed to agree and choose and compete and compete and control and everything else. And that is the doubt that we have raised here sometimes, and why we allow them to also do for, the selection of projects according to the regulations of the European Commission, not the Union, and not according to the regulations and the Public Procurement Act that we have in Croatia. We've asked that question at the last project we've put here, this HH and the Rijeka bypass. Split and so on. With all the projects we've been using. So this negotiation process lasts as long as it lasts and no one can shorten it with those little games of ours that we are used to under the Public Procurement Act on the Croatian market when the company,... Finely report and then object and then the process comes back and so forth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now these games are not possible here, but it is mandatory to respect the procedure that is prescribed. So in this sense, this process can neither be shortened nor can have a significant impact. The country is institutionally prepared. They prepare the projects and the rest run in my opinion okay. And at this point, if it's about the interpretation and the report on the funds used or possible abuse, then we can only talk about them in the programme "Cards 03" which was in that period and for which we can now submit the report. And this question and question, it is true that the Parliament has concluded possible abuses. Of course we doubt everything and everyone at once. However, the abuses that are possible in the domestic contexts are not possible here because the European Commission/delegation of the European Commission itself is being supervised. It is therefore very difficult in this regard to selecting projects in which they participate from the very beginning to the end. In the end, I can say that, at least personally, I express, of course, that I cannot accept that interpretation, but I at least express my satisfaction with the absolute respect and the rights of Parliament and the rights of MPs to seek these reports and to obtain them. However, I am still pleased that the debate in this House was not before the debate at the European Parliament last night, which gave a positive assessment in the overall preparations and relations between Croatia and the European Commission and the European Parliament. So in that sense you'd probably give me a much worse and a lot of black pictures than she really is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87501	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Mato Church. He's gone. He's losing his word on this wheel. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87502	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am one of the signatories of this interpretation because I personally believe that the use of pre-accession funds is essentially one of the basic schools that will be very useful for us to use structural funds effectively tomorrow. I've carefully followed these 15 exhibits in these five hours, and I must say that after this exhaustive debate, we still haven't solved much. Even some banal questions we haven't answered. So I'm gonna get some of those questions that come from your discussions here again. Namely colleagues and colleagues do 21 parliamentary representatives have the right to ask the Government to implement the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament and to provide us with a report every 6 months on how to use pre-accession funds? Does colleagues and colleagues enter the European Union because of the government, because of Parliament or Croatian citizens? We didn't answer that question either. Do Croatian citizens, do the media in this country have the right to know why the European Union funds are not used more efficiently? I'm not saying it's this government's fault. Maybe it's the previous government. And already after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, she had the opportunity to use those funds. Why do colleagues and colleagues of only 50% of Croatian citizens support our country's entry into the European Union? Would that percentage be slightly different and slightly larger if we were here correctly, openly, completely honest with the good and the bad parties that are waiting for us in the function of the time when we enter the European Union? Why wouldn't the MPs have the right to know why only 10% of these projects proposed under "SAPHAARD" get the green light? Does this mean that these seminars, the money that has been spent and everything we've heard today has actually not been spent properly? We have even heard that we have 25 experts for the area covered by "Saphard", and only 5 successful projects. So is this consultation, is this transfer of information, is this job done properly? Who's to blame? Can we fix that? I have believed to date that there is a consensus around the European Union. Political consensus in this House. I'm not sure today. Why is it that despite the large number of seminars, a large number of contacts with local and regional self-government, and so today we have been informed just over 3% of the funds have been sent down to local and regional projects? What exactly does this 293 new employee in the state administration do about these projects? I'd like to know that. Can I from today tell my Rivers, economic operators in Istria the exact name and last name of the person whom I can call his phone number or her phone number to invite him to help them tomorrow with the advice in preparing individual projects. Names, last names, phone numbers. Here, we heard the sigh: “And God!” You know, I could have done it, but that wasn’t enough. We are paid for a very serious job and I think that we must sometimes face.../President: Perhaps this sigh is some other day./...... Maybe, maybe, Mr. President. I respect that, I respect that. I was colleagues and colleagues yesterday in a small parliamentary delegation visiting Bulgaria. Mr. Tadic and I, and you know, colleagues and colleagues, Bulgarian ministers, so the Bulgarian government needed to demonstrate what? To demonstrate to us the second day of stay in Bulgaria on one example. They went and took us to one place southeast of Sofia and showed that their entrepreneurs, their farmers, were using SAPARD's funds. We've seen it on an example. They saw what they were doing. Who was helping them. As the projects were being prepared, how they implemented it and what results it was and how many people are employed on these projects. So, what I can tell you colleagues and colleagues than if we can't address our government here and get that information, perhaps the Croatian Parliament and MPs should address the Bulgarian government, so the Bulgarian government will probably give you a part of the answer. They are now also in the European Union, so they will probably give you both indirect answers and answers to what we do and how we do. But it's unfortunate that I get an answer there yesterday, April 25th, 2007, and today, a day later, I can't get it from my government. I don't think I have to go any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87503	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87504	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to point out once again that this interpretation that we have signed, the signator himself did not in any way intend to be an accusation, a charge of any evil deed or failure. She was a question, so why don't we just find out what's going on. Why can't we find out what's going on? No, we're not here. Each of us could ask a written question to the minister and the secretary of state and get a detailed, nice answer, so we could get an answer 152 times but it's not a joke. That response should be given to Croatian citizens. That answer should also appear in all the newspapers. That response should be in the newspaper every week, what is going on, to take advantage of what Europe is offering us right now. If we do not do so, this percentage that is now around 50 or below 50% of citizens who support Croatia's entry into the European Union will be reduced. In fact, we have two aspects of our relationship with Europe. The first one's emotional. It was the first stage when we claimed so we were always in Europe, we are in the centre of Europe, we are the oldest European nation. Everyone else was a chromonian, while we were still Europeans. We make love to Europe. Danke Deutschland and all that. It was an emotional phase. At that moment, the support for Croatia's accession to the European Union was huge – seventy, 80 percent, all alive were for this “we go to the European Union tomorrow.” The reflection of such an emotional attitude in politics is the view of our government that everything can be solved by friends, agreements and lobbying. Sure, when the job's done. But until the job's done, there's no lobbying that'll lead you to the results in a serious society. People are kind and decent and nobody, nobody in this Brussels, in the European Parliament is going to tell you come on, I'm not going to talk to you. They're all very nice and kind. With a kind smile, they walk you home, and then you realize you've got a slap. Why? Well, because you didn't do the job, because all you did was lobby, lobby among friends. In the end, you and those friends that HDZ convinced themselves of the same fallen slap when the time came. The second approach is rational. It's supposed to be organized inside. So, within our national Corps, we organize ourselves to join an organized society. It's already going harder. It requires knowledge, effort, money, time to invest. The step in this rational approach to Europe is also to animate your own public with reasons, not emotions. It's very simple to say so we'll find it much nicer in this society. Thus shall we receive from them all that we need, and they shall provide us with help. They tell us that, it's just not true, and we all know that's not true. No one's gonna help us do anything we don't do ourselves. In this rational approach, the animation of citizens should be open in all procedures. One of the procedures that should have been opened in this year, two times six months is this government report, and even if it did say so, we've hired 290 and I don't know how many new employees and now they're learning it for a year, that and that. When they learn to do that, they will be able to do that job and the Croatian public should have found out. I am convinced that the Croatian public would be able to assess it positively and say it, so look, these people are really doing something. And the attractiveness of accession to the European Union I am quite sure would be greater. Namely, the money we're talking about here 170 million missed, 70 million used isn't that money. It's potential money. It's just potential money and I'd like to stress the importance of this potential he's ours if we know what we're going to use it on and how to close projects to make that potential a reality. We showed, that is, the State Statistics Institute in its last move showed that it was not quite clear to him, so he concluded these three statistical regions in a classical Croatian way. The possibility of participation in structural funds excludes those who certainly and showed it already well know how to make projects that receive European money. Therefore, they cannot be applied for that money for the reasons of the figures and the gross social product. Great optimism has been raised amongst all others. They give them all the opportunities, they give them all the chances, and we did almost nothing, except see a plate of yellow, except in Istria and Rijeka County. We've done almost nothing to actually realize that potential. Bildati optimism without cover and where it doesn't belong might be convenient when we compete in the football championship, but that's where we get a slap. For the same reason, for the same mentality. Optimism in our own backyard where we're the main roosters we jump and scream everything we get, there's no problem, they're all our friends. Michael Plattini is my childhood friend, no problem. Of course, none of that. Let's not, it's a little thing that, in my personal opinion, doesn't matter for Croatia. Whether that football will be played in Croatia or Ukraine to me personally is not a very important thing, but this is. And let's not apply the same mentality, Markovic's mentality of the Football Alliance to state policy, that's bad. We'll get the same kind of slap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87505	And Hungary? ... Replica, Honored Representative Valter Drandić. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Walter Poirot.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87506	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, Vuljanic, said nicely that money from European funds is only potential money. That's right and that's right. And what my colleague Doric was saying was true. That is why the Istrian County opened an office in Brussels to learn from both Bulgarians and Slovaks and Slovenians how to make this potential money simpler. And then, with the best preparation of his people through the Foreign Ministry, there's this potential money that becomes kinetic money. And just like that. So we can't waste time getting to know who, but prepare people and teams to learn from those who have already been through and in their mistakes learn to get to that potential money much sooner.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87507	Replica response, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87508	Thank you. Dear Drandić, it's a good thing you brought me up to... I'm sorry, Poirot. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's a good thing you brought me up on the need to learn. Learning not only from your neighbors but also from those who can really learn from what this whole process has already been done, who have organized the whole work. Your county and Varazdin County and Međimurje County opened a representative office in Brussels. Some cities are now joining them. The town of Karlovac and the town of Koprivnica joined them, right. I'm guessing some other cities. They understood the meaning of it. It's necessary to be there, but not to talk to friends, but to learn something from these people. We have something to learn. So we're ashamed to admit that we need to learn something from these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87509	Second replica, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87510	Mr. President, colleague Vuljanić... Vuljanić, Vuljanić, I respect all my colleagues and my colleague Vuljanić. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Your statement "Danke Deutschland" has caused a replica within me, so I'll tell you the following. First, a Croatian soldier hanged a Croatian banner outside the United Nations building in 1992, January 15th. Secondly, at the time of the political transition of the Croatian Democratic Community, which was able to make friends in the country and abroad, it was a CD in Germany that fought alongside St. Father Pope as the first, Iceland, then the second, that is, the first large country in the European Union recognised the German state, the Croatian state, diplomatic and friendly ways. Today, the Croatian Democratic Union, led by Dr Ivo Sanader, is building a real Croatian path towards the European Union. Neither today nor tomorrow can any country in the world be isolated, so neither can Croatia. I wish maybe we were more neutral in some things, but it depended on our past which we were, which was who she was. And the political prominence of your party and others, I will not call them in this House, they spoke until yesterday, be careful until yesterday that they are sorry that they confessed to Croatia and Slovenia because they did it too soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87511	Replica response, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87512	I was sincerely hoping that in this House...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87513	I would ask that Mrs. Petricevic and Mr. Kramarić do not meet compliments with each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87514	Let them do it outside. They're stealing my time. I sincerely hoped that in this House this kind of patriotism was actually not current. There was a time when the flag crashed into "romania" and it was nice to put the flag on "romania" as Shime Djodan said, the Croatian banner will be vigored with "romania". It was that time. Today, this time is not God’s people. Today's another time. And Croatian sovereignty today is not defended in this way, nor in friends, but in interests and in business. The one who knows how to do the job will defend Croatian sovereignty. The one who doesn't know won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87515	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87516	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here you go, gentlemen of the HDZ. You're impressing me again. You were thrilled when the government gave back that lardy about the appointment of members of the INA, in HINA where it was walking a little bit over there, so you agreed to one thing so the government would immediately say that you don't get it. So then you changed your mind and voted again as the government told you. So that's how it was around the VAT, so it's going to be about zero permeations, and it's going to happen again today. Our request was not at all an examination of what was made but of what was not made. The parliament has made a decision that they must report to us every six months and we are only discussing whether they have submitted the report and have not submitted the report. You're defending them now that they were supposed to deceive the Parliament, that they were supposed to lie to us or manipulate us and not give us any reports. That's not true. You as a majority, and by supporting them, we've obliged them to file a report. Did they do it? They're not gentlemen. Not even those blank sheets of paper that Lesar showed, they delivered. They didn't deliver that either. And it's not that we're giving them criticism that they didn't do anything right or that they did anything. They didn't do anything. They haven't made their commitment to the Parliament, and I don't want to judge them at all, but I can read something about the direct use of funds, and it says so. Interior Ministry spokesman Zlatko Memun confirmed that the European Commission broke a contract with the MUP on financing the construction of asylum seekers' shelter due to the lack of location for its construction and that it would not be able to use 940 thousand euros from the CARDS programme in 2001, and he still said, but noted that he does not see a spectacular problem in this. Meanwhile, we've smoked another million and 200 euros on it, which means 2 million. A colleague Kramaric laughs at this folk term "smoker" but we really "smooth". We didn't get 2 million euros. For the money that we were supposed to get from the European Union, we did not withdraw, but we went to do the same thing with our money. And who got a slap there? And then when you go to the defense, you go to defend like you did today, gentlemen, so do you know what you're defending? Defend the government from failing to fulfil your obligations. Of course they're messing with us, we're in opposition. Normally, they show us whatever they want. Well, that's so clear. But they're lying to you, too. They're cheating on you, too. They deceive you, and you defend them. You defend that they have not fulfilled the covenant which We have given them, and we are the Parliament that We have appointed for them, and We have given them what they should do, and have We committed them every six months. And that's why I keep saying it. It's the same thing you did on HINA, it's the same thing done on VAT, and that's what's going to happen to you with zero prominence. I don't know, I'm... Mr. Hebrang and 200 thousand jobs happen to you because you didn't practically hire anyone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You didn't even promise, but you didn't do anything and it's beautiful. And the same thing happens to you right now in the government, you're not doing anything, so you can't even make a mistake. That's right. ... Now I've explained. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87517	Coli Kramarić is a non-smoker, so as a sworn non-smoking fellow Kramarić, that is why you do not use this termology, this term that the respected predecessor used that belongs to a vocabulary, is it that has little and so rustic character. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Zlatko Koračević. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87518	Honorable President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I really ask myself the point of why the MPs have proposed the Interpellation on the work of the Government and whether there is a need and what topics to propose impelation at all, because it should have one particular weight, so something really important should be involved. Well, since 21 MPs signed the interpretation, then we believe that this is one of the most important issues that are happening today in Croatian society. This question, although the interpretation is actually political, so every interpretation has a political character, it speaks either of this topic that we want today or of which we have discussed, is about the ability of society. It talks about the ability of society to take over all those standards, and then, of course, all the resources that are provided to it and all the opportunities that are provided in one process that Croatia has entered. And we have two sides here today. We have representatives of the opposition who are justly dissatisfied with what has happened in the past three or four years in this area. They are justly dissatisfied with ignoring the Parliament for not receiving the report, but it is not a matter that the Parliament has not received the report. It is that the content of this report that we have received today is not satisfactory. Because we would have been extremely pleased if we hadn't received the report by today, but that this report that we've received today is quite different. We here have, for example, the following point of the report on the use of funds that Croatia is something terribly enormously successful in the absorption of European funds. That this success is moving almost on a 100% level. It's a world miracle. Not worldly, European pardon! Because no other country has been able to exploit it. Thus, that fact itself creates doubt. But if we spread the situation as it should, then we have to ask the question, why didn't we really use the funds that were available to us? Why didn't we open up any other options? Why are we late for accreditation of agencies that need to verify certain programmes? So SAPARD was not late or the failure of SAPHARD was not only because the education was numerous, but also because the agency was only verified in the second half of last year, because we were SAPHARD, that the agency was certified early last year could have a tender that would take place from the beginning of last year until the end of last year, and not because we had it briefly in the second half of last year when it was impossible to prepare quality projects, because for SAPHARD you must have almost finished an investment. So that's the reason. I've already said in one replica today the reason why we're dissatisfied is that the decentralisation process of decision-making is running slowly. Projects that local self-government or non-governmental organisations or institutions have won on, and are scheduled to launch them in Brussels now because they wait for contracts for months, cannot run them because they cannot be defined or the rules and instructions for example are not issued. The only thing that works is that we get approval from the Ministry of Finance that we don't have to pay the VAT. It's really an honor to send an invoice within a few days and you get from the Ministry of Finance that VAT is not accounted for and does not pay, but you can't start a project. I was telling you two projects that the town of Koprivnica received from "Interect 3a", one project we did not get a contract, our Italian partners are already working on this project of 1.2. The second project we didn't either, we got the contract, we signed, we didn't get the funds. Our Italian partners are phasing out the project. The third project was "The Pannonian Palette", we waited 3 months for the contract, after which we opened the sub-account, after 3 months, 80% of the funds came to, from the European Union, today we can't interpret any more views on how the procurement is done in these European projects. Whether it is done under Croatian law, whether it is done in European, how to interpret it. So, the decentralised decision-making method should have been such that it defined administrative provisions on what will be done because control is very restrictive and none of us who have received funds from the European Fund has the desire to make mistakes, so that we do not need interpretations to be wrong. It was easy for us to interpret it when we spoke with the European Union and when we had only one partner, so we had the rules of the European Union and we acted accordingly. Today we have the terms of the European Union, but we also have the question whether we must respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia, and that is something that slows down projects. Today we certainly don't have that in the table, but the whole series of projects is standing and waiting because the decentralised decision-making method hasn't even delivered the contracts to the partners yet. And now something not just, we're stuck for SAPhard. You know, you have ISPA. ISPA started in 2003. Since 2003, when projects were nominated to this day, it is not even in half its performance. It was almost a year before the contract was signed from the Ministry of Finance and the Government came here for confirmation at the Parliament, we confirmed it somewhere in the summer last year only. That while those who nominated projects, and nominated, I mean somewhere over 60 projects didn't get an answer, those whose projects were accepted received the answer because they entered the process of making, but the others didn't get the answer whether they were accepted or not. If they are not, why are they not accepted and if they are not accepted to help them to maybe create a project for the next time to be well written or perhaps not accepted for some other reasons, but then you should have told people ok, your project is good, but from certain priorities or criteria we cannot take your project into account, but your project is good and you can report it to some other competitions. Today, State Secretary Zigman published an interview in a business weekly saying that IPA is already in preparation and that very soon the government will decide on projects that will go to IPA. I'm asking where was the IPA contest? Where it was an invitation for those who might have a project to deliver to the government or the resolution ministry and to help the government and the resolution ministry withdraw as soon as possible the resources for the IPA. Nowhere has anyone published on either the government website or the ministry, nor has he gone to a memo to county, to cities or institutions to say people, so come on, you have projects from transport, for environmental protection, from regional development, there are such projects safely in somebody's tables and drawers, and then the best we can get the money, deliver it to the government as soon as possible, and we will do it together, but today we read that the government will decide very quickly. I am afraid that the IPA will also not be a political decision as it was for ISPA, because for ISPA, only the political criteria decided who would receive these funds and the ISPA was spent a great deal of money in order to adapt the projects selected to be nominated for the European Union, because there were projects that were good, but put aside, but some had to be taken and then given to hunting and consultants and some banks so that these projects would rise to a level and were written in a way that the European Union would accept them. I think that when deciding on European projects would not be, there should be no policy space, but whoever has a good project must have the advantage, it must have the advantage and it must be able to get money from a pre-accession fund or some other fund regardless of which policy options. Unfortunately, I have little fear that now that the situation is such that it will be decided to decentralised that something similar will happen to ISPA and then there are certain local self-governments, counties, but the cities have indeed made a step and have gone to Brussels and founded their offices there, they want to be in a place where decisions are made, they want to be in a place where there is information because we need to have and we can't get that information in Croatia. We need to go to Brussels for information to be where our colleagues from other countries are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87519	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87520	Mr. President, Secretary of State and Secretary of State! He just incorrectly said they were assigned only to the political path. Namely, the ISPA as we had the occasion and here we have at the entrance to the Assembly right for the Regional Waste Management Centre "Biharac" confirms that only that unit of local and regional self-government that has the project can run, can win and have been allocated to it and precisely shows how much and how... investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As well as the programme for water and waste water, Karlovac is the best and bright example that only systematically with projects and professions can credit and be granted. Those incompetent units of local and regional self-government, municipalities and cities that are not even fingertips cannot expect the money to be allocated, let alone spend.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87521	Replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87522	Your Honor, Mr. President! Here, although I agree with most of the speech by my colleague Mršić, I think I would like to warn him that it is not only the slowness of some things and the political choice, but also the misjudgement of some projects. We had two first-rate measures in the SAPARD that were subsequently abolished. These are measures for the use of renewable energy resources which have not been used in the first year. And another measure to build certain roads across local self-government. And we used anything less than 5%. If we had used these measures, I believe that our community chiefs would have made a great effort to use exactly that money that was already on the way. And I also know from the example that one in Gospić was made by an energy company built by Croatian forests where we could not withdraw those funds because the measure was expelled from the project. And I think that's exactly the example that with the wrong estimates, with the wrong decisions, we've led to the fact that some of the funds can't be withdrawn. And that says that we put the wrong people in certain places, that we were changing certain secretary of state there, etc., those who decided on it. Now, that kind of thing we can't afford to withdraw some of the resources we have in the future. And there's no excuse for any, is there? Here, I wanted to supplement you with this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87523	Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87524	Well, fellow Ledinsky, I fully agree with you, but there has been a lot of talk about this in previous discussions today. I also wanted to warn this second segment, which is therefore to make it impossible for those who have projects and who have abilities and who have competence to write a project to meet additional obstacles in order to withdraw that money. And then on the other hand, we're justifiably unhappy about why we didn't take advantage of all the possibilities. And we have a situation here, unfortunately, that even though we're talking about 275 or I don't know how many million euros, it's small money, right? Because it's only now that we're opening up the possibility of withdrawing a minimum of 500 million euros from pre-accession funds over two or three years. But if we're going to act like we've done before, then in three years or a half, we're going to have a report in this House where we're going to say that all the projects are in progress, right? Or that they're just being decided, you know. Because there's no reason to, for example, the Carlovite if he was so good he wasn't finished long ago. In 2003 we could start and today finish it, that the Regional Waste Management Centre is not finished. Because SAPARD was supposed to be long gone. It was supposed to be an end time where today, based on this experience, they would tell me how to write new projects for the IPU. But no, I'm sorry, ISPA was supposed to be over. So we're not just talking today about ISPA being under way, we don't know, we have no experience of what was good, which is bad at it. We just see that this process is unfortunately going on indefinitely long. It's been going on for years. If we're gonna drag this whole story around like that, we're not gonna end the IPU by 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87525	Thank you. Five minutes of debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87526	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! This interpretation, as well as the Government's response, shows in fact how bad Croatia's preparation for withdrawing funds from European pre-accession funds is. It is our impression that, in fact, in the government, it is forgotten what is the purpose of these funds, the purpose and their adaptation to Croatia for what is awaiting its entry into the European Union. We, however, are going to these negotiations often so quickly that we are making faster progress in the negotiations and we are making faster commitments than we are able to withdraw money from the European Union so that we can actually apply these obligations here and adapt Croatia to what is agreed. We rarely have a situation of truly caricature to, say, legally dopate savings credit cooperatives, to give ridiculously short deadlines and then to propose to the National Committee to request some delays or extensions for that part of the negotiations. The same is true of withdrawing funds from European funds. That money isn't anybody's allowance. They can only be obtained from the European Union if they are sought on the basis of well-developed programmes. However, we have witnessed that in 2002, after the ratification of the SAA, Croatia passed practically without a single euro withdrawn from the European Union and this was made after that year after year in about the same way. But it could never be said that the funds were completely used. It's about how good the funds are, how often they're good programs. But, ladies and gentlemen, in Croatia, we practically have no place to inform ourselves what can really be financed. When we visited the Danish Parliament in our time, we saw that there was a special professional service in their Committee on European Integration that only the Parliament could dream of. Which within 48 hours gives you information on whatever you want, as far as the European Union is concerned, which is in the directive, which is funded, which cannot be financed, what are the conditions, what are the propositions? All alive. We don't have a database like that. People really have to work hard to find out. We don't have to go to Denmark. It is enough to go to Greece, which has indeed milked every euro that could come from the European Union and do so today. The problem is, therefore, how to provide the right amount of information, the problem is how to illustrate all the complexity of paperwork for our users and the problem is that most often there is no communication with those who will benefit. Here we have one example downloaded from the internet, which is the CARDS 2004 programme and the program is called "Recovering Information to the Croatian Business Community". And now watch out, there is no mention of the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Commerce anywhere in those nineteen pages. And then a man wonders who this program is actually working for if two basic chambers aren't even mentioned. And they were certainly not consulted when the programme was written in the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. So, the information almost nothing, prepares the poor because people simply don't know which paperwork they're facing, communicating with those who are going to use the funds most often very badly. The result can't be but as it is pictured in the interpretation and in the government's response, which is truly unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87527	Thank you. Secretary of State Martina Dalic. And after that, the final review on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87528	Well, I would like to say that what the distinguished representative Mršić was talking about is that local units of administration and self-government are opening their offices in Brussels to be better informed. This is very good because local management and self-government units will then and all those who will be staying and working in Brussels on that occasion will probably learn. If we can't get to the ears here with what's said, then I guess it'll be better done in Brussels. Because it's said whoever has a good project has to be able to get money. In principle, right, the only thing you forget is that these projects and the process of their implementation aren't exactly designed and constructed the way one of us thinks it would be convenient for him. So ISPA is certainly not open in 2003 because it is the result of obtaining candidate status and certainly is not a project on which 60 projects have been proposed because ISPA applies and everyone knows and writes on web sites, according to newspapers, it is only necessary to find and read including the web site of the Ministry of Finance's office and website, refers to the transport of the environment in railway transport because the railway is a priority of cohesion policy and the European Union is financing what is consistent with cohesion policy and not what would be convenient for us. And then there's this railroad on the corridor, not the local rail, not the connected rail, not the rail between the cities where we'd need it developmentally, we're doing it from our own budget, we're doing it on corridors. And in this sense, the Republic of Croatia only has an X. corridor. And that is how the Vinkovci-Tovarnik border project with the Republic of Serbia is reached. And why isn't there a contest for IPA? I was saying it at first, so I'm going to do it one more time in the final statement. Because the definition of projects and how projects are identified is carried out between the European Commission and the institutions of the Government. The European Commission has defined a document, a multi-annual indicative planning document made by the European Commission setting out priorities that can be financed from IPA. This was made by the European Commission, as it has done for these others. Afterwards, she called on the Republic of Croatia, everything on the office's website to create operational programmes for the implementation of individual components of IPA, and this was spoken by the State Secretary and these operational programmes are being developed under which Croatia will propose its priorities and projects that meet the priorities set out by the European Commission. And what's important is to say that all these operational programmes are being developed in partnership consultations with all those involved. As well as the operational programme, one of them for regional competitiveness was delivered to all the counties concerned with the comments. We're waiting for answers. So, the process of planning and programming projects, I repeat once again, and that is the essence of this whole process, is not how it would work out for us, so that it would be convenient for us, as we think it should, rather than the way it's prescribed by the Commission regulations. And for your information, the IPA Commission's regulation has yet to be adopted by the Commission, but we are working on a final draft and we hope there will be no significant changes. I therefore return to the fact that it is good that as many people, persons and institutions go to Brussels and learns directly on the list of places to work and how to work if and when we do not want to inform ourselves about what we know and what we are talking about with each other. So in the conclusion of this presentation, I can only repeat what I have said many times today. There is no doubt that the conclusion was reached on October 6th. However, the conclusion asked precisely what kind of information the Government of the Parliament has to deliver to that type of information, the possibility of delivering that type of information was acquired in the second half of last year and for which the report was delivered and will be discussed in the next point. So I don't see any basics, and once again I suggest that the interpretation be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87529	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87530	Well, I'd like to correct the secretary of state if it wasn't for over sixty projects for ISPA. In 2003, the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection sent a letter to local self-government units to nominate projects under the protection of human environments they believe could be ISPA financing. And a number of projects have been reported. After that, no local self-government unit received a response to what was with their project and to the Committee on European Integration six months ago, the Secretary of State of State of the Ministry of European Integration said that there were over sixty projects that were so reported and then six projects that went further into the process were chosen and these 6 projects entered the "ISPA". But in order for the government to know how much there is and where they have projects it originally sent a call to units of local and regional, regional self-government and came to the Ministry of Over 60 projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87531	Second correction by Honorable Representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87532	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable State Secretary said that some units of local and regional self-government opened offices in Brussels because they did not want to be informed at the ministry if I understood correctly. I think that's incorrect. The Istrian County opened an office in Brussels to be close to the source and to go into the situation as much as possible, in talks with those who had already passed the process, so countries that had gone before 10 and then these two last ones. But not a single project, not a single project went into it without talking to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87533	And a final review on behalf of the interpreter, the respected representative, Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87534	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Zigman, colleagues and colleagues. So this is definitely about an important topic and an important report not only because of those 150 million kunas, how much each year, according to these programmes in these years, does it belong to us or how much we could use it. Not only is this year more than 125 million kuna and not only because when the Republic of Croatia becomes a member of the European Union, which is more than twice as much, it is therefore the money from the Structural Funds and the European Union Cohesion Fund, which is going to go, depending on which situation the Republic of Croatia will then be, somewhere up to billions of euros. It is not a small amount of money or money to which we should treat with ease and irresponsibleness. And of course, more importantly, through these institutions, through these mechanisms, through these procedures and processes, we are actually learning how to behave in accordance with those oatmeals that are actually our original goal, whether we want to go towards the European Union or not. So that's the way it is. The clarity of the use of these funds. That is the biggest profit the Republic of Croatia and its citizens will have. Bigger than these billions of Euros that we're talking about. So it's a very important topic. On behalf of the promoter, I must again reject the allegations made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it was not possible to submit a report. This was just now repeated by the State Secretary, and our conclusion from 6 October 2005 reads: "The full report on the use of pre-accession funds". So using pre-accession funds isn't just about withdrawing those funds. This means that no reports could be submitted at the stage of the contract because there has been no use yet, and then there is no point in this report that we have in the Croatian Parliament. This report, which took place after the signing of the contract with those whose projects have been approved. There is still no need to withdraw funds because the procedure lasts from 6 to 12 months. Therefore, a report could not yet be submitted strictly. And that's pointless. The use of pre-accession funds includes, of course, all possible preparatory actions that have lasted in this country for a number of years, which allow these funds to be used and therefore it is pointless that both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the State Secretary have nothing to report on. I'm the one who brought it up, so I'll do it again. With all those structural actions that we were supposed to do, which is body formation, that's what a report in this House needs to be reported to see how it's going? What is the dynamic of forming these bodies? How's the accreditation process going? Is there a problem with that? Is that why he's late? Education and civil servants and users of these programs. All of this was to be reported. But it was especially necessary to file a report because in these topics we are approaching the narrow part of the use of funds. About the project programming process how the Government of the Republic of Croatia and its bodies program projects? What are these projects? According to what criteria will the Government or the bodies responsible for choosing which projects will be within this or that of this programme? It was also supposed to be the content of the report. How is the project approval process going? What are the projects going to be, what are the public tenders? When are they scheduled? What is the dynamics of public competitions? All this could have been in a report that was half a year after 6 October 2005. And of course for some projects dynamics of signing a contract. We're only talking about "Cards" here in 2003. So at the time of half of 2006 they were already in the programming phase of "Cards 2004". The same way the PHARE programme was also in the programming phase, tendering. Maybe signing a contract with those who got jobs. All of this was to be reported to this High House. Therefore, it is pointless to claim that by June 2006, when the PHARE competitions were completed, for the "Cards" in 2003 that absolutely nothing could have been submitted to anyone until then, if necessary. Therefore, the claim absolutely does not stand. It's a very complicated process, I warn. The "Cards 2003" signing of a contract with selected project holders is 2006. And the end of the program is 2009. In late 2009, namely December 31st... and will then be known that day to what extent has the "Cards 2003" been used? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have here data on the exploitation of the PHARE programme for the years 1990 to 2003 for these 10 countries which have recently joined the European Union. It shows that the final performance results of these programmes range from 57% to 73%. But in the phase of signing the agreement, selecting those who had passed all possible criteria before withdrawing the funds, before calling the withdrawal bid, that percentage was 10 to 15% higher. For example, Bulgaria had 74.72% of signed contracts from the total appropriations initially. But she ended up at 61.38%. So, it fell 13% because despite the contracts being signed, approved projects were not the internal capacity of the administration to get that money through. What my colleague Kapraljevic used to say. We lost one programme of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia because I don't know what. I think it was about the location permits. So when you sign the contracts, you're still not sure you'll get that money. Therefore, it is a very complicated procedure and it is good that the jokes that we are about to submit to the Croatian Parliament are timely, they are quality to be monitored for what someone has done. If the CARDS lasted in 2003, i.e. it will take a total of 6 years for several governments to work on the realization of this, the two governments were at least working on the implementation of this programme. There may be more, but it is the programmes that will ultimately, for which the responsibility will be several officials, several governments, the Prime Minister and if we do not have a clearly structured report on it and the public, but of course the Croatian Parliament will not be able to determine whose responsibility it is, why the exploitation of our programmes will be not know how small, unsatisfactory. Based on this PHARE information, it would be great if the Republic of Croatia came to 80 or went towards 90% of the benefits, but whatever kuna, or whatever euro is lost from it, should be asked why we did it. Why not use everything we can because they are grants and funds that are certainly so programmed that they are in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. If there's any priority stuff, but we need to finance these priority things on our own. This is why every kuna, or every euro from these funds, should be used. Therefore, the applicants of the interpretation remain in the conclusions proposed by the Croatian Parliament. These are the conclusions to remind you of those who are talking about submitting reports. We have one report. We will discuss it after this item on the agenda, so the actuality of this report is no longer complete. But certainly, before the next parliamentary elections, the Croatian Parliament should have other than this report, which we have on the benches today, another report on the use of funds, because it respects the dynamics of 6 months, and the same is the end of the term of office of one government as an opportunity for such a report to be submitted. In particular, we insist on the point 2 of our interpretation, i.e. the conclusions we have proposed, which is to oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine, without delay, who is responsible for the intolerance of the report and the report of the Croatian Parliament. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, I think, by the fact that we have proposed this point to the Croatian Parliament that it is discussed today in the Croatian Parliament, we think that we have done no matter what the final fate of our conclusions will be, which we should not be overly doubted about, that we have done something good about using these funds and those of the final interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are summed up in the use of the European Union funds. I, on behalf of the motioner of twenty-one HNS and SDP, thank all those who took part in the debate, and I expect that each of these individual reports will therefore, and when it did not fully agree with what the applicants here suggested, that this was a contribution to the resolution and treatment of this issue, however, in a way to be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87535	Thank you. The Appendix also on behalf of the applicant within the time available which is still available. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87536	Honorable President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here when we talk about European funds, then we really talk about the ability of a country or what we would say in the administrative capacity of all those who act as public functions or public services in the Republic of Croatia to respond to all the potential and potential challenges and opportunities that this process in which we have stepped up provides, and here whenever it is not used and the last euro there is room for us to be unhappy about it. And if you don't take advantage of much of what we could use then of course there are even more reasons for concern. The reason we asked to report every six months is to see where we are. But not to talk about what was behind, so in six months for which the report is submitted but simply to learn from this past period how to write projects even better, even more competitively, and to withdraw funds in the future. And a period of six months for a European project is short. European projects are being prepared, evaluated, approved, negotiated and implemented longer. They last a year, two, three years. But it is precisely a six-month period and it is a kind of pressure that those who are responsible for carrying out this process as soon as possible is the pressure and control of Parliament over this process. Recently, at one conference, the President of our Parliament spoke about the role of Parliament and Members of Parliament in the process of joining the European Union, and then on the other hand, we have to give the interpretation almost in order to even know what is going on in the area of pre-accession funds. If we control the negotiation process, it really is important. But it is also important to know what is happening where we can achieve a specific, current benefit for the citizens of Croatia, and we do not. And here, anyway, for as long as the use is not maximum, we can be dissatisfied. And now only two concrete remarks. There was a very speculative observation by the secretary of state about the process that is happening in Croatia, which is that units of local and regional self-government are opening their offices in Brussels because there they are going to study because they do not want to study in Croatia. I do not think it is correct for those who set aside funds and those who are looking for a way to really open a door, to come to a partner, to see a fund, to see an opportunity for their citizens, and thus to promote the interests of the Republic of Croatia in Brussels. They do not open offices... there because someone has nothing to do in Croatia, but opens it because he may not have been able to learn in Croatia, because he had nowhere to learn in Croatia and because it is not all contained in this 4.5 pre-accession fund that we are talking about. Well, there's a whole series of other funds. Partners in Croatia do not always have to be carriers. We don't have to be carriers in Croatia. We can be partners with some cities, counties, regions of the European Union that have the possibility of much greater funds from European funds. We can be holders or partners in funds formed for cross-border cooperation, Slovenia- Hungary-Croatia, Slovenia-Croatia-Italy. And I'm sorry, we can't get that information in Croatia. There are no such competitions in Croatia that they may be contacted. And you have to be there, you have to be where that information is available. You must be there to develop these contacts with other institutions and other partners. For example, someone will not say that a Budapest could not learn anything about Europe in Hungary. And despite Hungary being in the European Union, Budapest has a very large office in Brussels. And many other cities from the European Union have offices in Brussels. Secondly, it is an opportunity for the citizens of Croatia living in our units of local self-government to educate on Europe, on European institutions, on the benefits, on the usefulness of what Europe offers us. Because we will eventually ask if they want to join the European Union. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia are entering the European Union. Because they must declare themselves in a referendum whether they want to join that European Union or not to join the European Union. And thirdly, we have to be there because for some of the activities and actions we want, where we want to be part of European projects and movements unfortunately our ministries do not fit adequately. For example, in the "Mobility Week" of one movement now in the European Union in which they participate each year, about a thousand 500 cities from Europe took part last year without a national coordinator. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Protection of the Human Environment has not determined a nominal person to have additional benefits. And I'm sorry, if someone from Croatia wants to participate in this movement that has a thousand 500 cities from Europe, is that a shame? I don't think so. But even more so, that even so, the interests of the Republic of Croatia are promoted, so that you are in what you are currently and in Europe, and that is certainly the protection of the human environment. And secondly, here we had one controversy about the IPA. I was really surprised that the government has an absolute overview of all possible IPA projects. I'm worried if the government has it. So is it really possible that the government knows exactly about all the major projects we have, which can be reported to the IP? It was seen for ISPA that it was not, that there was one inquiry to local self-government units, regional self-government, according to some public institutions that could propose some of their projects. So in the area of environmental protection where we have to invest billions of euros over the next few years to achieve the standard that the European Union is asking us to do, we need every quality project. And the government doesn't know that. The government can't know that. She can only know that if she really asks those who have something to offer if they have it, and that's what we're going to do to the government, I know it's national, help the government choose really those projects that are more feasible at the moment, which are at the highest level prepared to withdraw funds. Because unlike ISPA, where the funds were very limited, the IPA still provides opportunities for more funds and more money, and therefore more projects. Because I don't think anyone's going to tell me that the only one and only for ISPA is Carlovec, a purifier in Karlovac. A lot more wastewater treatment devices have been reported. We need to make them in the Republic of Croatia for tens, to tens we have to make them. So let's give those who have the opportunity to have project documentation, to be able to prepare some of the projects so that they can do it. And that's where we have to work together. This is one joint business, there is no power and opposition on this job, there is no government and local self-government, there is no Europe and Croatia. We just have to work together. And if we want to be successful at that job. Because only if we're together on it, together we're looking for the best projects we'll be able to pull the funding in real time, not make it as difficult as we've been with ISPA. And that the ISPA report, that is, about these funds, came a year ago, maybe we were able to conclude then to the government that some processes are speeding up. Because I repeat what I said in an individual debate, it took about 9 months for the ISPA contract to come from the Ministry of Finance to, here to the government and we here to verify it. And even to this day, we have not received a conclusion, or answer to the question raised on the Committee on European Integration, to deliver to us a total that all projects have been nominated for ISPA, so in this first round. So I call on you to have no resistance to criticism here, but to take what we say in critical tones as an invitation to a joint job as much money as possible and as much funding from European funds on the one hand. And on the other hand, of course you have to respect the criticism. Well, there's no reason not to submit a report every six months, if that's what the Parliament has decided. Or if there is a reason, then it is easy to write to the President of the Parliament that there are higher and justifiable reasons why it does not seem. And not that we're here then trying to convince ourselves that we can't read what we concluded together a year and a half ago. So this is one call to try together at all levels to try to pull as much as possible, to take advantage of the possibility, this isn't about withdrawing funds, there's a possibility here and from our ability, our administrative capacity, our competence depends on how much we're going to take advantage of it. And it would be good to use it, not to regret not doing it afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87537	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87538	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think the "Birds and Apples" show is very encouraging for some MPs, but I will correct one part of the incorrect allegations of fellow Mrsic. In fact, it is incorrect that those who opened an office in Brussels had no place to get information about pre-accession funds in Croatia. That's just not true. Either they didn't want to come to lectures, seminars, or they didn't want to use information that is accessible to both the National Fund and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So that's just not true. The second thing is also incorrect, that the government can speed up the procedure. The procedures are laid down by the rules of the European Union of fellow Members. The procedure is therefore exclusively based on the rules of the European Union. So there's a reason why that's the case. You should have informed yourself, not told the truth. ... You had a chance to talk, let me finish my thought. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're not telling the truth, you're telling the truth, you're cheating on the public, and that's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87539	Correction of an incorrect quote, dear fellow Shirac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87540	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representative Mršić said the following in his presentation. That only one programme for the wastewater treatment plant in the city has been reported for ISPA... so it's really incorrect. I don't know where our esteemed colleague Mršić was when we discussed the Memorial ratification law here. I have personally discussed the proposal of this law, and your colleague Mršić has obviously failed to report your program... Please let it go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You have obviously failed to report your program because 20 cities are proposed in this programme with their wastewater treatment programs, so the proposed cities are to deal with the disposal of solid waste and water supply.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87541	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I conclude the debate on the Interpellation on the work of the Government in the area of the use of pre-accession funds of the European Union. We'll probably vote on that question tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87542	Interpletion on the work of the Government in the area of the use of pre-accession European Union funds. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the next conclusion as a home working body. Interpletion on the work of the Government in the area of the use of the European Union pre-accession funds proposed by 21 MPs is rejected. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. The result? With 64 votes for, 7 abstentions and 25 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87543	We move to the next point - The report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union Report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received his report at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. State Secretary Mr. Ante Zigman has a word on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87544	Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Ministry of Finance proposed to the Government and the Government of the Parliament a report on the use of pre-accession European Union funds with specific reference to planned and unused programmes taught unused funds and possible fraud and irregularities in the process of using funds for the period from 1 July 2006 to 31 December 2006. The conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 6 October 2006 found that every six months the Government submitted to this esteemed House a full report on the use of pre-accession European Union funds with a special view as I mentioned earlier. Before the use of the funds was launched, as has already been said, a series of requirements for self-management of pre-accession funds, including the most important establishment of an institutional system in line with the requirements of the European Commission, including only one of the wheels in the entire mosaic, were the confirmation of the National Fund Memorandum. The preparation of quality projects that would have exhausted the financial location approved by the European Commission, the work permit, or the transfer of powers that took place only in 2006 because a complete system had to be prepared before, and then what was very important throughout the Parliament during last year, and it has already begun this year, so the signing of financial agreements and the validation of these agreements by the European Union. In view of the type of information requested by the Government, the first report was drawn up for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2006. What is important to point out, therefore, is that the process of implementing the European Union programme begins by actually negotiating services and works with contractors according to individual projects, so contracts are concluded with between the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the units, the central units for the negotiation and implementation with the contractors directly. These are therefore, first and foremost, when this whole process is completed in which I would like to point out that in each segment of this process, every step of this process is being attended and controlled in a certain way by the European Commission, so the delegation of the European Commission located in the Republic of Croatia, each step since the publication of the information that the project will go to the publication, until the final documentation for the publication of the contract, must therefore be approved in a certain way by the European Commission delegation. Why? Because such an accreditation system, i.e. work permits, is agreed and agreed with the European Commission. It is their means, and in this system it is necessary to work in such a way. As part of the institutional development that was made and started in 2005, a national fund, implementing agencies and project implementation units were established in state administration bodies. So project implementation units in state administration bodies. As you can see in the table that you have received under this report in each ministry are the implementation units in which they work, whose head is, in fact, the state secretaries from these ministries, those projects, or the programmes they have concluded, which, for example, are ratified and approved here in the CARDS 2004 Assembly, are contracted and implemented. The institutional establishment of the system, therefore, with what I have listed, was therefore the central financing and settlement unit which is directly responsible for the negotiation and quality of the documentation being carried out. The same as the words of the agencies, i.e. the administrative directorate for the SAPARD programme, which is located in the Ministry of Agriculture, is also part of the system. The system does not need, the system does not rest and does not end only in the part of the implementation. The system also has its continuous and constant control. Therefore, in all ministries, and at the end of last year, this law was also the Law on Internal Financial Control in the Assembly on the adoption of each ministry has a department, i.e. the internal audit sector, which continuously and continuously in its programmes, have the obligation to monitor and control the implementation of pre-accession programmes. Therefore, internal audit operations must be carried out in all the ministries and bodies of the state administration in the framework of independent and independent departments of internal audit and maximum efforts and necessary resources for the education of two to three internal auditors by each ministry, i.e. a certain body of the state administration, have been made. What is important to note, therefore, that part of the internal audit actually came from the European Commission's request and it is necessary that part of the implementation of the complete system of pre-accession funds be implemented. As regards a number of responsible persons who are there, so from the National Aid Programme Coordinator, national officials for the verification of sectoral coordinators, officials authorised to convince the programme, etc. which are here in the report are, of course, part of the responsibility within this system. Implementation of the programme. Therefore, in order to implement any programme, there must be detailed procedures and extensive procedures with described tasks being done in the bodies of the state administration. Order of activities, timelines, drawn and described the flow of documentation precisely a certain type of documentation with signatories. Any document which goes to the approval of the European Commission and which actually serves as a valid document in the implementation system must have two signatures, so four pairs of eyes, can therefore not happen that one process goes through only one hand, so it must at any time go through double, and in certain cases also triple-check. When we talk about programmes and conditions and the state of each programme, it is therefore necessary to say that after obtaining accreditation and signed financial agreements which are actually ratified in the Croatian Parliament, the process of implementation of the projects has started, therefore, the negotiation, but not yet the use of the funds. I note here and underline the use of funds. The tendering procedures are prescribed by a practical guide, so-called the threshold that passes through and gives the way in which the arrangements for the European Community's assistance to third countries are negotiated and are not implemented by the application of the Croatian Public Procurement Act, so the system in force in the Member States of the European Union is strictly implemented. Each procedure has its own rules, a tender procedure, for example, what was already a matter for the supply of services and the supply of equipment takes at least 6 months, so the process takes at least 6 months, can take longer, the procedure for contracting works takes at least 9 months and cannot take longer, and the procedure for contracting in cooperation with experts from the state administration, so when it comes to "Twining" projects can then reach a period of 12 months. In fact, the deadline for the negotiation of projects under a specific European Union programme is an estimate of its use and start the first payment and use of funds. Therefore, only then do the ministries, i.e. all those bodies of the state administration that have the programme, which have a contract only start using those funds at that time. The Annex shall be accompanied by a table detailing the funds requested and received by the European Commission. The table shows that during the period from April to December 2006, the national fund asked the European Commission for all the funding programmes totalling 53 million and 336 thousand euros and, in that respect, of course, the funds and the management of the funds were thus deployed even before the transactions and payment arrangements were carried out so that, of course, the management of the funds could be of any quality. By obtaining accreditation, therefore for the PHARE pre-accession programme on 7 February 2006, the Republic of Croatia was enabled to decentralisation of CARDS projects. In their first instance, CARDS projects were created on a centralised basis, which would say that it had concluded them, that the contracts were concluded by European Commission delegations directly with performers, not the Ministry of Finance, or the Central Contracting Unit, and, of course, during that decentralisation, decentralisation for the CARDS was carried out in 2003. In this respect, a total of 38 projects worth 62m euros have been approved since the CARDS in 2003 after the delegation of powers to the Republic of Croatia, so the Ministry of Finance has been given to negotiate 40 contracts, so not all, so within 38 projects there are much more contracts, so not 38 contracts, but it runs about every project up to two, three contracts, so over a hundred contracts. The finance ministry received 40 contracts worth 20 million, 29 million and 366 thousand euros. The table in Appendix 3 you have here provides a review of projects and contracts, their values, end-users and where projects for CARDS are implemented in 2003. The contract was completed and completed at the end of June 2006, with a contractual amount of 28m and 685m euros, which is in fact around 98% of the total allocated and decentralised funds to the Ministry of Finance. Regarding what awaits us to look little into the future, therefore, CARDS 2004 which is currently in the negotiation phase, whose contract ends by the end of June of this year and which will be discussed, of course, in the next report, a total of 28 projects worth 76 million euros have been approved. Following the transfer of management powers to the Republic of Croatia, 42 contracts totalled 46 million and 573 thousand euros were decentralised. Also in 2005, whose contract will end only in late November 2007. As regards the ISPA programme, the deadline for negotiating ISPA activities has been set individually for each of the approved projects since each of the projects comes to ratification, a special agreement is signed and the first one expires on 12 December 2007. So, if we're talking about using, we can only talk about the first use of the ISPA program in 2008. Regarding that part of the reporting requirement, relating to irregularities. It should therefore be said that in the pre-accession programme management system the rules of the European Commission apply and they define the parts of the reporting of irregularities and fraud. In this context, therefore, every ministry, all those who make contracts or run projects have an obligation and were obliged and have done so, establish a system of monitoring and reporting irregularities. Each ministry has its own, its own person who is in charge so that it is familiar with the irregularity procedure and in this sense takes care that there is no irregularity. So when we talk about irregularities and fraud, it's not just fraud. Therefore, there may also be small irregularities that are important to be seen in order to be removed in time in the system. Each body participating in the implementation shall have clear and comprehensive written procedures. The existence of detection and handling of irregularities is therefore one of the basic preconditions for establishing an internal and external system of surveillance and control through which processes are corrected and improved. In this regard, an e-mail address of irregularities was also established.eu@mfin.hr to meet all the participants of the system in which information is of course available on the web. the website of the Ministry of Finance to which information on observed irregularities may be sent anonymously and the consignor may remain anonymous if he wishes. What I would therefore like to report is that there were no irregularities in the implementation of pre-accession programmes during 2006 because this was mainly a period of the establishment of a legislative institutional system. And in the second half of 2006 also when the use began no irregularities were observed. Here, so much for the introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87545	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. One notice. A session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports is scheduled for tomorrow morning. Does the work bodies' rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in line is on behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected colleague of Hebrang. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87546	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Now we are in a bit of an unusual situation because we are starting to discuss the report and in fact we have been discussing it all day long, because at the first point of the interpretation it was actually about the content debate in which we heard good suggestions and good suggestions, and surely the debate in this second part will be also focused. It's obviously a misunderstanding because I think this report came in just in time. I believe that it came in due time because the Parliament's decision a year and a half ago has been read so that the Government commits itself to submit a full report every 6 months to the Croatian Parliament on the use of pre-accession funds of the European Union, with a special reference to planned and unused programmes on withdrawn and unused funds, or on possible fraud and irregularities in this process. Since pre-accession funds are organised in a way to withdraw, finally withdrawing money so the start of realisation of the practical project takes a very long time and it is very complex then the government had to make first the complete infrastructure that the report is talking about, which Mr. Secretary of State was also talking about because this is a fundamental assumption for later good functioning. We have experience with other types of funds. These were the funds of the World Bank and of the Council of Europe, and we know that we had to organize the whole picturesquely speaking army of experts in order to meet the conditions. And the pre-accession fund conditions are still much stricter, much more complicated, much more complex. The World Bank and Council of Europe's programmes lasted years until a successful completion. Croatia has learned a lot there too. The Croatian government has satisfied practically 99% of these programmes. And we witnessed some countries that even those return money coming back through long-term favourable loans couldn't be realised. If we're satisfied there, I guess we'll be able to do it here even though it's a much more complex task because finally these pre-accession funds are also used to perfect the mechanism of state administration, that's one of the objectives of these funds. And it will be perfected by structured according to the requirements, by very strict demands and by going into these complex tasks. According to this report, we must say in advance that the government has met these criteria and that our club will support this report. So something in short form should be said that, that these funds are aimed at improving different sectors in the country but are also a test of one country's maturity, can it be adapted to these high criteria of the European Union in all areas and thus enter it? The design of the program is as I said very complex and these programs are different purposes and different monetary amounts as we have heard. I would only mention the CARDS programme that has gone far and far and which is dealt with in this report and precisely, in which money is intended for various projects, such as refugee returns, judicial reform, reform and improvement of state administration, environmental planning, etc. The ISPA programme, which covers environmental improvement problems within 63m euros, transport infrastructure. SAPARD program, special programme for agriculture and rural development. For example, by 2003, 10 Central and Eastern European countries had over 560m euros in the programme, over half a billion euros. And only for 2004. Romania and Bulgaria intended 225m euros, only for the development of agriculture. So it's about the programme, the SAPARD programme, which is of great interest to Croatian agriculture and the government has made initial preparations to start exploiting it. So, why couldn't we have received a full report earlier like the Government's Parliament did? Because the procedure is complex and consists of several parts. First of all, we need to have good projects. Making good projects is a big problem. These projects must be justified, reasoned. These projects often have to be of regional character under the terms of the European Union, etc. When projects are made, their implementation starts by negotiating services by projects. And the deadlines for this negotiation are 6 to 12 months. It is therefore very long and, during the duration of such negotiations, it is really not possible to give a concrete and precise report behind which concrete results would be present. By July 2006, the negotiation process was completed only for the CARDS project in 2003 and in other projects the use has not yet started because the pre-phase is ongoing. But the government used that time to make very thorough preparations. I'd just like to mention a few organizational moves from the government. For example, in the bodies of the state administration, all bodies were established bodies for the implementation of these programmes, the education of persons at all levels at national and local levels was established at the Ministry of Finance, the Agency for Implementation and Negotiation, the Department of Internal Audit, the individual ministries appointed persons coordinators for individual projects and at very high levels in its personnel. The Central State Office for the Development Strategy and Coordination of the European Union Funds manages the entire procedure and within the State Treasury of the Ministry of Finance, the National Fund for Financial Management of these significant funds has been established. Responsible persons are named, a whole series of people. I would only mention the national co-ordinator of all projects, the head of the programme in ministries, the main coordinators of individual projects, etc. What should be pointed out is that the European Commission has carried out a revision of the programme, that we have received positive solutions on these programmes, that it has awarded accreditation for managing the PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD programmes during 2006 and that the negotiations are ongoing and that in six months we will certainly get a concrete report on the results, the provisional results of these projects. For the CARDS project, I would say that it is actually a typical project of how these preparations work in Croatia. In fact, the CARDS has started centralised, the European Commission has fully implemented the financial management of the project. She ran all the contests. The European Commission has implemented bargaining and payment. The Republic of Croatia received accreditation in February 2006 when the project was decentralised and thus the management and implementation of tenders was transferred to the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission only implemented so-called Ex-ante control which we consider to be a dynamic adjustment that is appropriate. What should be pointed out that this report very precisely shows is the state of individual projects, and in this state, it can be said that the amounts of receipts are, that they match the amounts of funds requested and that there are no irregularities that the internal audit or control of the European Commission would find during this period. So, briefly for the CARDS 2003. 20 million 500 thousand euros, 2004. 29 million euros, the amount of receipts is equal to the amount of funds requested. For the PHARE programme of 84m euros, the deadline of the contract is 30 November 2007 so the negotiation is ongoing and we cannot talk about the final results is the total amount of the requested funds 17 million 394 thousand, withdrawn 15 million 653, so we consider it a very high percentage of the execution. For the ISPA programme of 59m euros, the contract expires on December 12th 2007. Therefore, this programme also has ongoing negotiations and the Ministry and the Government certainly cannot come up with final results so far, which is logical but it comes out with the partial results of those projects which, within the time limit, have gone further. So we can say that ISPA is equal to the amount of receipts and the amount of funds requested for Karlovac which was spoken of by the water supply programme. The same applies to the waste management project under the ISPA programme. It means that this report shows that these thorough preparations by the Government have made possible the implementation of this first phase of all projects in the given frameworks. Whether in the future the Government will carry out in a high percentage all the jobs needed to withdraw it at this time cannot be said because it is too soon and any criticism would be premature, but the warnings we have heard are very welcome, comparisons with other countries are very instructive I would say and point out that the need for thorough extensive preparations that the Government has seen in this report and carried out. By believing in such good preparations, and in such a start of the first projects, in particular the CARDS programme which is in motion, we can conclude that it will continue with this debate in the Assembly and, of course, at all other levels of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this opportunity to prove as it has proved throughout a series of projects in these three and a half years that it is able to work at one level of the European Union. In other words, the Croatian government has matured and, of course, the entire Croatian state with its administration, that this large exam also successfully skips as it has done on numerous other exams. For all this, I believe that the government deserves in this first part of the praise, we will see further how it will go and therefore that the club of representatives supports this report as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87547	Thank you, dear fellow Hebrang. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, dear colleague Jozo Radoš. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87548	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There it is, there it is. We have a report, by the way. I said earlier when we talked about the need to report from the very beginning towards the dynamics set by the Parliament that this report would probably be better if it were the third in a row rather than that first in a row. I'm going to try to explain what I said. Otherwise, the problem of our reports being filed in this House is that none of them are similar to the previous reports, as if they were intended to be restructures and reporting methodologies but also the structures of what each report is reporting seems different and absolutely impossible to follow from year to year as it happens with some report. You can't take two reports two years after each other and only without great difficulty and digging by documentation compare and say this year it's done one thing, this year it's done the other. In 90% of our reports, it is not possible to do so because reports either intentionally or intentionally due to a change in the reporting methodology, due to the change in the subject matter reported, and so on are absolutely not compatible, making it difficult to obtain representatives and, of course, finding the media, getting to the public and so on. So it would be good for these reports, this reporting process will continue for a few more years, and since we have half-years we will have in the Croatian Parliament in the next three years another 6 or 7 of these reports would be good if these reports were standardised. To be similar to each other so that it can be monitored for what has happened. Similarly, it would be good for each programme to be monitored if this is in any way possible, since at times different programmes are reported in a similar or similar way so that it can be monitored to the extent that one programme or to the extent to which another programme has not been realised and that responsibility, reasons and so on may be clearly located again. Now what we have in this report isn't really like that, it's not set up like that. I'll point to a few difficulties in this report. This report doesn't really make it clear if he's the only one you have in your hand, and it should be clear what it's about? To what extent is a project realized, and what is happening to it? What is the dynamic of his accomplishment? Which of these programs isn't realized? For example, in 2003, the CARDS programme is said to weigh EUR 62 million. It's a familiar piece of information. And then it is said that after decentralisation, this is the procedure when the European Commission transfers its powers to the Republic of Croatia and its bodies has been transferred, EUR 29 million has been agreed and then a question is raised with 40 contracts, which is less important here than what is left of the remaining EUR 33 million? Here, the EUR 33 million is not mentioned at all. Have they remained in the competence of the European Commission, they are not decentralised? Or are they definitely lost to the Republic of Croatia? That's not clear from this report. Similarly, for the CARDS programme in 2004, which was EUR 76 million and after decentralisation of EUR 46 million, is not clear where these, these EUR 30 million, were lost? Are they definitely uplifted for Croatia or are they still in use to us but they are not decentralised but are managed by the European Union or by the European Commission? This report cannot be seen. I didn't purposely ask for further information, but such a report must contain that information. Where 33 million were lost from the programme, EUR million from the "Cards" programme in 2003 and where 30 million were lost or may not be lost but if not, the report must tell representatives of the Croatian Parliament. In 2005, PHARE writes that out of EUR 80 million, 84 million was granted through co-financing. This is where the co-financing comes in as a category. However, it is not clear from this data how much of the EUR 80 million was used without co-financing? Co-financing is our money. How much of the estimated €80 million was used from the 2005 PHARE programme? This is not possible to see from this report and this is the basic information that must be given. There's information here on how much funds have been withdrawn. Of course, these funds are not final funds because before that is agreed, then, of course, the call for tenders and only then the withdrawal of funds, but according to what is written here, of these programmes listed here, it is "Cards", "Cards", 2004, "PHARE" in 2005 and "ISPA" in 2005 and 2006, which is EUR 297 million in withdrawing EUR 51 and a half million or 17%. Of course, that doesn't mean that those funds, all the funds, are being used. A share of these funds will fail because no country has been able to make use of a 100% asset. Usually 10 to 15% of the funds withdrawn where contracts are signed fail to be used because the country that does this and its bodies are not able to spend all the money withdrawn under the European Commission regulations. So for now, it's only 17% of what's been withdrawn. I'm warning on purpose I don't want to conceal that information that it's a partial data, but for now it's a situation. However, this report is almost nothing to say about other programmes. The "ISPA" is said to have signed memos. The amount is spoken, but is it not said that they are co-financed or not? So while PHARE is said to have been co-financed here, nothing is said about it. I happen to know by the amounts it's not about co-financing, but it has to be indicated in this report. The SAPARD programme for which the competitions were held does not say what is the dynamics of the competition. It is not said that only 10% of projects went through the first stage of the competition. Since 51st, only 5 programmes and projects have been accepted. There's no such thing here in this report. Isn't that relevant information? Why is a total of EUR 25 million, so somewhere around 190 million kuna, why is only 12 and a half million kuna approved in the first phase? That's an important piece of information. It's got to stand here. Well, we're not here to find out from my colleague Matusic, which, of course, I don't mind him, that he's in the middle of a second competition and he's getting ready for the third. Well, that's got to be in this report. Well, he can't be here in the polemics, of course, but it's not, it's his right as an agent, but be careful what that information, that information is in phase two of the competition and that it's being conducted and the third one, maybe the fourth one, maybe the fifth one, so it has to stand here in this report. That's not in this report. And what's the flaw in this report? There are none other than these last projects from, it seems to me that this is a PHARE program and very much so, it is "Cards" in 2003, there is not a single project mentioned. Why is it that here in this material all the projects that are in the negotiation phase, which are not yet approved or even projects that are in the negotiation phase, why aren't they listed here? There's no reason. It will take two, three, four or five pages more but it is the information that is relevant to each agent. The MP wants to know what programs were in the negotiation phase before they passed, won the contests. What are these projects to monitor what is actually the consequence of this process. Not one project except for these CARDS in 2003. Neither the CARDS 2004, nor the PHARE 2005 has been reported in this report. Therefore, this report is not a full report and therefore this report is not good. And about some other programs outside this spectrum these four programs, so PHARE, CARDS, ISPA and SAPARD, there's no speech. There's no mention of the IPA program here. It is only said in that report on impellation that the government is taking steps to make the IPA programme, which is now the only programme in 2007. Both PHARE and SAPARD, CARDS long before he disappeared and ISPA everyone turns into an IPA program. You don't have a single word on the IPA program in your report. It should be stated what measures the Government of the Republic of Croatia is taking that those bodies that have been active so far in implementing these three or four programmes seem to implement the IPA programme. This report must be in order for representatives of the Croatian Parliament of course Croatian media and the Croatian public to understand it. And not to mention the other programmes and other funds that must also stand in this report, not only these four, that is, in 2007 only one single programme. There's no word here about Marco Polo's program. It is a programme for increasing the transport capacity of accession countries. The Sixth Framework Programme for Science. For one and the other, Croatia pays membership fees. The extent to which funds are therefore withdrawn from these funds. The problem with these funds is that, or problematicly, additional difficulties are that for some of them, you must cooperate with other European Union countries. Then it makes it even harder, complicated the withdrawal of funds. Thus, the sixth Framework Programme for Science is not mentioned here at all as if it does not exist, as does not mention a very important programme of cross-border cooperation at the external and internal borders of the European Union, which is INTEREG 3. In any of these programs, you do not have a single word in this report. So that's why I think this report is, of course, the first step. But already as a first step here could be good. The club of HNS representatives may take note of this report. But I repeat, these reports should be more complete. They must report on all the elements of all the programmes and what is very important after the third report, you would mean that somewhere within a year, you should have a final form of report that will no longer be changed so that these reports can be compared, so that the basis of these comparisons can show who is responsible for not applying some part of the programme and that public representatives in this regard may ask a question of responsibility if some part of the programme is not achieved in some amount that we consider to be satisfactory. I repeat again. It's a very important process. It is a very complicated process and it is therefore important that the Croatian Parliament's report on this should be quality, because if quality reports arrive at our benches and the implementation of these programmes will be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87549	Thank you, dear colleague. Correction of the incorrect quote by the esteemed colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87550	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Although late in part of the debate, his colleagues corrected, and he did say what the fact is. At first, he said the SAPARD program was only used 5% of the funds. He was talking about 12 million kunas, so it's only the first stage in the competitions that follow. It's currently being called, so it's going on, now it's going to be the second stage of the competition that lasts for three to four months, and then there's going to be another one, and we're just going to have the first phase finished, so this competition and the negotiations in mid-2008. So when we talk about SAPARD, he's quite existential, not only does IPA exist in 2007, but all the programs exist. So he's extorting the CARDS programme in 2003. It was only contracted in July 2006. So the negotiation process has just been completed, and the implementation of the CARDS is until 31 December 2009. So we're going to be talking about the CARDS, and the PHARE and all these ISP programs, etc. ISPA 59 million euros. So these funds haven't really started to be used yet. We're only at the initial first stage. I agree that information can be even better prepared, etc. It is indeed a matter of methodology, but we will very much be informed of all the processes that are yet to be expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87551	On behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Ledinsky. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87552	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, allow me a few words on behalf of the HSS Club about this report that we've been practically talking about today all day. Well, here I would have started first with one finding and the knowledge I've had over the past few years when I was first in the Republic of Ireland. The country's noise was about 2% prior to the use of EU funds from various funds. After a few years, I'm not going to say exactly how many now, but one shorter number of years of that noise, that country has come to 11% and is still working on it. So, for a short time, they have managed to withdraw a large part of the European Union's resources and thus improve the noise and come towards those desired goals of about 15% of how much each country should have in order to meet those specifics of the Kyoto Protocol that we will talk about a little later. These examples show that there are plenty of resources in the European Union and that we need to know how to pull them out and know how to use them, and this particular example should be a motive for us, too, to try out the resources that we are offered to have a great achievement, that this achievement is not in a small percentage and that in this way we form our teams so that we are not late with various parts, that we do not often change people, but that those people who start to really stay on these jobs so that we can then ask them why they have not or have done something, and to commend them if they need to. This particular example of Ireland, and often we follow the example of Ireland in many other segments, should be an incentive for us to move towards the achievement of our objectives in this use of the pre-accession European Union funds. This is the first report of such a nature to come based on the Parliament's conclusion, and it's a good thing we got it. I mean, I wish we could've gotten it before this impelation went. In this way, we might see that certain services are still responsible for doing so and are reporting on what is and should be done. However, it is clear that certain preconditions need to be met before all these funds are used. Those preconditions are very complicated. And at all the presentations where I had the opportunity to be, we were always warned from Europe to prepare for these conditions, to form teams, agencies, surveillance, whatever else is necessary. I'm afraid we haven't all listened to that closely enough. And that's why it seems to me that we're still late in some things. And I'm going to say that later on what I think they could have done better and better. And those delays you know aren't good. Because if we say that someone from someone's program that we pulled 5%, and it's not going to be used for 20 years, you know, but it's going to be used for a shorter part. If we pulled 5% in the first year then it's hard to catch the pace if we use it for only two or three years, such a program. Practically, I'd say impossible, right. At the same time, there were several measures that I had just replicated my colleagues for, when it was Interpol, were measures that we could have left behind, which we should not have moved from the first year and where we would have withdrawn some of the funds. Where, for example, with a measure for the use of renewable energy sources that was in the SAPARD programme would stimulate many environments, small environments, for example in the forest areas of the state, Gorski Kotar where there are already programmes, e.g. various municipalities there, I don't know from the City of Chabra that has programs, from the Municipality of Mrkoljaj that has programs, where these programs would certainly take advantage of, you know. Because when you give our chiefs of municipalities and municipalities a chance, they bite for that money, you know. Because these are the funds that are practically 50% back. And we shouldn't have thrown those measures out of the program. I also remember the time when the Sapard program began to be discussed, about 2002/2003. where I personally tried to get some of those measures into that program. Because I realized that it really meant a lot, a part of agriculture and rural development. Because all the funds you have in rural development can be put out of your budget as much as you want for these programmes, no one from Europe will object to that. It is allowed, however, to invest as much as possible in such programmes. Now, if at some point we're a little late or we make a wrong move, then it's hard to fix. And that's why it's my good purpose of suggesting that we really try to go aimfully, try to determine the carriers, the enforcers of these measures and rely as much on local self-government as we can on local self-government and give it the opportunity, just like for that other measure that was also thrown out of the SAPARD to build fire roads, not fire roads, but ordinary roads in areas of our local self-government. Over the past years, I've had a chance while I was in the Croatian Forests to use a World Bank loan that was tied to certain purposes, meaning mostly related to fire prevention. And I can tell you that I noticed through the use of these funds that our friends from the European Union are very prone when we need to approve certain programs where they will sell to so say my smart consulate services. There's no problem. Very soon you can get out of any program to get you part of the funds that for such purposes. And of course their experts are working, right, in that part. That, because we practically don't have a part of the people who could do it in some segments. And there they are very fast, very skilled. They know how to use it. And we even get quality programs. But on the other hand, the question is whether we implement all these programs. I can, for example, give an example where we are an programme that was in the World Bank, related to the restructuring of Croatian forests, adopted, adopted by the Government. After a certain time and began to run, came another government that no longer implements it, and didn't even decide that the programme was not valid, you know. But he's been approved by the World Bank, he's been through all the procedures. These aren't good examples. Tomorrow someone will ask us why you didn't continue that program that was approved as such, you know. And you haven't even made a decision that it doesn't apply or change it, is it, it can change, certain segments after some time, by the way. And finally, when the programme ended in the last phase, it was necessary to decide on some parts that could be said to be of a political nature. So after five years, we could end up making a targeted political decision where and how to determine certain things. So in that part of the foreign funds, it's possible to get some of the money out of those parts. But to us it seems more like I need some resources to say let's do a liquid, daily need. So for building certain objects and it's good that we used some of the resources on the water industry regardless, I'm not getting into it now whether all these cities in one option are political or not. I appreciate that it's generally useful. There's one option in power today in local self-government. There'll be another tomorrow. The project that was made for one option will continue another. And there you shouldn't look at it that way. But in any case, these programs will certainly be useful for that part of local self-government. And that's why they should be accepted as such. Furthermore, there, I would agree that there is one major part of these good projects and that they can exist as such. I was talking about that part that the speed of withdrawal of those funds is certainly important to us. If we have these projects, and we have them relatively little, we fail in a short time with our agencies to prepare the other projects we're going to need, then we're going to be in a position not to use that part of the funds we can get. And then we won't meet all the things that we wanted and to achieve with certain programs. So I would like to give an example that, here, we have the names of the responsible persons for certain programs. And here you can see that we've often changed those responsible people, because they've gone somewhere else. And that way there's no continuity. I think it would be a good idea if we had a stalker team that would work at least, have targeted at least one mandate to work on a particular project when they get a chance to work. And also of these, some of these people who have come to those top places, the question is how long before that they were ready and educated to be able to implement these programs, how much they know foreign languages that they can even talk to foreign partners. And listen when you go to talk to a certain translator, then the question is whether you get a certain goal that you should be. Also when you look here and the report stated that regarding irregularities that can occur, it has taken a lot of action. In these funds and programmes coming from Europe, we must be very careful, we must not allow ourselves to make a failure, and then, after that, we are under fire for some of the failures that one of us has committed. And there's my suggestion that it's really strictly controlled especially by those units that are in charge of surveillance, so we can be calm when certain controls come in to carry out certain work. I have to say that this is when I had, when I was working on this World Bank loan project when it came control of the execution of fire roads in the coast, this is what a fellow former mayor knows, that we had on parts of very good executions, and that we had several performers who had scheduled and we had to eliminate, they couldn't work on these projects anymore. Also on certain noises that have been made. That's why control is always necessary, and when you have a part of the resources, then you have to use them properly. No failure should be allowed. I think that there are the greatest pressures on us from the European Union and the greatest control to see for ourselves what it is and how we will do it. Now, even though I've said a lot about it today, I've tried exactly on this example from Ireland and here are a few of my experiences that I've had during my work and with the World Bank to point out all of this. I would once again call upon the end of this debate of our people working in agencies, funds, which implement these programmes, to really give the greatest effort to withdraw as much and as quickly as possible some of these funds, the majority of these funds, and the lessons learned from outside are visible at least this part of the Eastern European that entered the European Union later that it did not withdraw large percentages, that these are small percentages. I don't know, at the SAPARD, I think I've seen some countries of 7. 10%, so we just don't lose those funds. And in the end, I would say that the HSS Club is receiving this report to the knowledge, and I believe that the next one will be better and better, that we will be able to boast of better results in implementing pre-accession programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87553	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is Zubovic. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. It's my dear colleague Tomic's turn. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87554	... and this report together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's response to the interpretation of 21 MPs really provides a good picture that this country is really qualified to start using EU funds and this was the hardest for all countries, and yet this was done in record time from 2005 to 2006. [[Specially enabled.]] We have established all the necessary institutions, defined the rules and procedures of work in accordance with EU legislation, and European Commission auditors have assessed the system of exceptional quality and have not had any negative findings that would block the granting of accreditation and thus the start of the system's work. The accreditation was officially published on February 15th and Croatia has thus proved to be a modern country that knows and can apply the most demanding rules of detailed and strictly controlled financial systems. The best of all is the record use of the decentralised CARDS assets in 2003. 97.7% of the allocations were agreed. And what my colleague Radoš said, experiences from other countries mean that what they had at most 70% of this is in some way the best indicator that Croatia will successfully use these pre-accession funds of the European Union with its administration. Also, I believe that this report is at the right moment, the report is in any case fine because it means 1 July 2006 to 31.12.2006 when activities were unilaterally possible and for the rest of the CARDS 2004, PHARE 2005, PHARE 2006, ISPA and SAPARD are certain that after the conclusion of the negotiations we will indeed receive reports as well as reports from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would be here after the first competition for the SAPARD program took place and today there were a lot of words about this programme and which is really important for our agricultural production and rural development a few words said. Our administration that we have seen that 530 people, indeed the SAPARD programme has adopted within a record period of 17 months, is aware of the fact that we simply cannot follow our own laws, but by the rules of the European Union. That the adoption of a plan for agriculture and rural development has been adopted within 7 months and concluded a multiannual financing agreement with the European Commission in a month. It took more time for all other countries, and in some ways it may be evidence that the Republic of Croatia, that our administration has used experience and helped other countries that have already entered the European Union and who have real experience with this programme. The first tender published in 26.7.2006 by 31.10. was 51 applications and exactly five projects, the amount granted was 12.5 million kuna or 1.7 euros, which is about 8.6. Surely, however, there were problems in the first competitions and other countries. However, I look forward to what happens after the first competition in SAPARD, that the agency has prepared certain amendments and has received from the European Commission the approval of the second tender with these changes, which will say that in the negotiations in preparation for the use of the SAPARD programme we are indeed taking care of our legislation as well. Here are the most important changes needed in relation to the first round, the share of state and local government or state-owned companies together or individually owned by the applicant company up to 25%. In the first competition there was zero, and thus it was possible for more business entities to apply for the SAPARD program, because only entities in 100% private ownership could appear so far. On the other hand, the table of business plans that form an integral part of the application has been adapted to official and financial reports of the Republic of Croatia, and this is indeed simplifying their fulfilment. New tables for the financial and economic course related exclusively to the project have been developed, allowing the project to be monitored through its lifetime. Reduced restrictions, reduced limit values of financial indicators for client assessment, this was today, but due to these indicators, not 90% were rejected, 19 requests were rejected based on these indicators, meaning accelerated liquidity that was reduced, return on total assets and the operating profit margin is no longer a crucial indicator for the client assessment. The internal rate of rentability is monitored during the project, so far it has been for 5 years and the number of documentation required to be applied for. Now no longer should a copy of the charts of deposited signatures, an environmental impact study, a list of long-term assets, a lease or land concession contract be submitted at this stage, has been extended to confirm that the applicant meets certain criteria for the allocation of SAPHARD funds, e.g. Contracts on care shall be accepted... in other ways, a binding or non-binding letter of intent of the bank on lending, thereby enabling HBOR loans to be used when using SAPhard funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, it is important to facilitate access to the financial resources needed to implement the project and documents proving the right to build, meaning not only one through one, but also the right to build so that candidates can participate in the SAPHARD programme. Surely this competition, which was now announced on March 28th, 4 months, will certainly mean not only 100% of the private, but I believe through that programme from the 5th, 6th month of education, so the opening of the competition by 31st 10th, the retailer all these applications, 51 of them coming in the last minute for extensive documentation. I think it is a great experience for the implementation of this second competition and now from this one 7 million to that 25 million, or by 31 or 1 August 2008 Croatia really has a chance, for sure that we have entities in the Republic of Croatia to take advantage of these 33 million kunas that carry the SAPHARD programme, and later, 33 million euros that carry the SAPHARD programme, and later certainly in all other European Union programmes, as well as now mentioning these new programmes, which will certainly be the subject of next-term reports. Here's this report and this answer I think what the secretary of state said about this period from 1.7 to 31.12 last year that we were withdrawing, we asked 53 million advances from pre-accession funds that we withdrew 51%, I think that this administration really, with all the trouble in establishing the agency, is already mature that it can use all pre-accession funds programmes, and what for the Republic of Croatia for the period 2007 to 2010, I think that during that period, I think that the Republic of Croatia will be prepared to make the most of this adjustment, and also in the development of certain branches in the Republic of Croatia. Here's again any support report on the use of pre-accession funds. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87555	Thank you, dear colleague. It's next, dear colleague Matušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87556	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I think that the inevitable part of the debate on the use of pre-accession funds is, it refers exclusively to the preparation of institutions, in fact, to their training for the implementation and use of pre-accession European Union funds. So far, we have been able to hear a lot of things in the debate, and there have been a lot of words about what assumptions are important to us before we withdraw the funds and use the program. So, we're not in the asset-using phase yet, we haven't withdrawn all those funds because we just couldn't pull them back. So we should build a system, set up institutions, hire primarily qualified employees,... that we have come from 120 and some employees to 513 employees, that we have appointed responsible persons, that we have developed work procedures, but these procedures are primarily consistent with the procedures that we have received from the European Commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we are not the creators of certain procedures related to this process, but is the creator of the European Union, i.e. the European Commission. It is absolutely certain that in this business, the Government has given a great priority, that persons engaged in this business who have mastered and applied quality requirements, the European Union's regulation, in record time. In addition, where all preparations have been completed, the evaluation, i.e. the audit of the established system by independent external auditors, shall be initiated. The audit is a job that certainly cannot be done quickly and a concrete review lasted 2 months. The positive assessment of independent auditors is a mandatory part of the package to be sent to the Commission, the European Commission, in a request for system accreditation. Request for system accreditation, i.e. a permit to work with European money for PHARE and ISPA programmes addressed to the European Commission in July 2005 and to SAPHAARD in March 2006. These dates are very important, and we'll hear it later and why. Afterwards, the audit of the entire system was carried out by the auditors of the European Commission whose positive assessment was crucial to the European Commission in the decision on accreditation, i.e. in the delegation of powers and it took time. The delegation of powers was therefore required by the European Commission and its auditors, for them in particular, so if we applied for accreditation in July 2005 we received a positive response from them on 13 February 2006. So, July to February 2006. It takes about 7 months, 8 months, while the European Commission responded to Croatia's request for accreditation of the entire system. This is enough for itself to say how much the process which is really only a fundamental preparation of the Republic of Croatia is to be able to manage these funds, that is to say, in a decentralised way, because so far it has been a centralised way because it was the European Commission that concluded the contracts. From this moment on, since the European Commission gave a positive answer, which is only in February 2006 for the PHARE and CARDS programme, since then the Croatian state institutions and which are agreeing with users, with those applying for projects, are therefore negotiating all the details of these projects. Also for management powers in SAPARD, so the European Commission made a decision on 29 September, almost October 2006, and we applied for funds in March. So it has been 7 months how long it took the European Commission to actually make an insight into what Croatia has done in the accreditation process. It is clear that in 2005, 2006, this report clearly shows that these were the years of preparation for system accreditation and the time of accreditation, and therefore the use of funds during that period was not theoretically possible. So it was not even theoretically possible to achieve what we talked about during this morning’s debate, which is that realisation is that of withdrawing and using these funds. And finally in this House, in the Croatian Parliament we also had laws on the validation of financial agreements for both PHARE and ISPA and SAPARD. And through those laws we were informed about what was going on around pre-accession funds. It is clear that only after the signing of the financial agreements and their entry into force can the procurement procedure take place. So in the Parliament we confirmed them in May and July 2006, and in January and February 2007. So only in the second half of 2006 could the first competition begin. And from competition to use of funds, there is still a lot of months of hard work to go on. Competition procedures, as we could hear under the rules of the European Union, last at least 6 months. So basically it's a much longer term. The minimum deadline is six months. The following should also be established. The European Commission auditors who were auditing the entire system after accreditation have assessed the implementation systems for the PHARE and ISPA programmes and have found no blocking findings. What does that mean? This means that by trusting the authorities of the state administration of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission has confirmed that the system set up by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is both transparent and efficient and there are no blocking factors or elements. What was also said in the discussion that it was not known what projects were, a colleague of Radosh who had just come out, I can see that he was coming back, so I'm going to ask him here, specifically. For example, for PHARE for the year 2005 which you could get and, say, on the Internet over the course of the period or for PHARE for 2006, where exactly what the programs are doing, how much funding is foreseen for these programs. So everything is clearly visible and transparent and you can find information on the Internet and you can find it in the institutions of the state that are in charge of implementing the system. And I really don't understand that you can say from this pay phone today that you didn't have any information, that you didn't get the information. That information is available to everyone. Not to mention the lectures, the seminars that we were talking about today. Let's not talk about that part. Or not to mention the fact that it is still here for PHARE in 2005, that additional appropriations are granted due to the exceptional quality of the project proposals of 7m euros. So I'm asking you, what institutions are these if they're not the same, if we're not talking about the same people who prepared these same programs and the same projects? So who deserved to get an extra 7m euros, because 80m euros were scheduled for those projects, but we got another 7. For the quality of these same proposals. So what are we talking about? Indeed, today we have been speaking falsely, incorrectly, and so on. We have concrete information about what's going on. You have printed, you have brochures, you have everything you need on the Internet. So, familiarize yourself with that information. I agree there may not be a fast enough flow of information. I think we all need to do this to get this information on the Internet, which is also placed through lectures, through various seminars, etc., to find as much in the media as possible. To interest the media. And that we as parties, we are all responsible in this process. And bringing Croatia closer to the European Union as responsible as we are in this process to withdraw as much as possible. Let us also through our activities not by misleading the public as we could have listened to in this assembly today, where the facts were truly untrue. Here, let's do everything we can to really facilitate the withdrawal of these funds. We're talking about Sapard as if he's done. It's like the fund-related process is over. And the contests are still going on. The competitions are currently under way. The current competition takes another few months and one that will only follow in a few months. So let's give concrete and accurate information. Let's not deceive the public. Well, there are 25m euros in the SAPARD, 25m euros are expected. So far, through various projects it has been said exactly, it is predicted that some 12 million kunas will be used, which is very little, but only now is the next further phase through competitions and the possibility of using these funds. So let's do everything we can to withdraw all these funds but that doesn't just depend on these institutions that are well prepared. This is not said by the HDZ representative, but said the European Commission, which gave the report, such a finding, the audit report on Croatian institutions and the programme's verification of funds to the Croatian state. That is what the European Commission says. It doesn't have to be repeated continuously by HDZ representatives to get it into your ears that it's true. That's the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87557	Thank you. 17.57. Time out for applications in the debate for 10 minutes. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87558	It is my fault that my colleague Matusic said that your data is not available anywhere. That's not what I said. I just said that in the report submitted to the Croatian Parliament, these data on the programmes that have been approved and the programmes that were in the contest should be the content of this report. That's what I said. Why is this information that's listed here? It's propaganda material. Propaganda material and report to the Croatian Parliament are two different things. These projects approved in PHARE 2005/2006. They should have been contained in the report. But I was saying that the report should still contain some other things, include projects that are in the competition stage and are not yet approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87559	Replica is Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87560	Thank you very much. Comrade Matušić! If informing our citizens and especially parliamentary representatives were so good and high-quality in the last two years, then this morning we wouldn't have an impelation here at the agenda session, on the agenda of this session. But unfortunately, the euro of skepticism among our citizens is just telling us that the information the government provides to citizens is too weak and too bad and missing. So, unfortunately, citizens don't know what you're talking about this afternoon as it is inadmissible for parliamentary representatives to be informed on websites. I mean, by looking for a report on what was planned and what was done and what we said would be delivered to this home every six months, don't replace it with the possibility of access to websites.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87561	Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87562	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't see any reason why parliamentarians wouldn't be informed on websites. There's really no reason. So, except for this regular information that we're going to get. We said, our position is that this report came at the right time for the reasons I mentioned because only in July 2006 was a prerequisite for the report to be submitted to the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, from July 2006 to the end of 2006 is only the first reporting period. It's our attitude, no matter what you're noding your head and it's timely. Besides, the data presented in this report says enough that it's the right attitude because we haven't spoken and now, here and today we're constantly trying to argue about the fact that only 5% of the funds were reportedly withdrawn from the SAPARD. And how long? But it's only phase one. There are two more stages in which it will be possible to withdraw all these funds. That's what I'm talking about. ... It's not a plan, it's a program, it's a draft procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, there are more competitions. So, the competition is under way, there are others who will follow because these competitions, through these competitions, are likely to crystallize those programs that will succeed in withdrawing those funds that are foreseen through the SAPARD. Therefore, as far as information is concerned, I agree, we all need to do more together to get as much information as possible to our citizens, but this is not just up to the government. The government is doing its job properly and responsibly and giving as much information as possible but it is not just up to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87563	Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87564	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State. The report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union, dated from you on 2 March, has been very highly standardised. Finally, we can really follow every detail and every item in the programmes that we have accepted from the CARDS in 2003, CARDS 2004, PHARE 2005, ISPA, SAPARD and certainly to point out that the government has given this business a great priority and that the best people who have mastered and applied the required European Union regulations in record time have been engaged in this business. By the end of 2006, the number of people was tripled from 120 to 513 working in the system of management of pre-accession aid programmes compared to 2004. But I would also point out that the government has just encouraged in the best possible way how units of local and regional self-government, how they must participate, establish institutions, build a system, hire qualified employees, appoint responsible persons in regional operational programmes to express through a standardised way what is needed and to be able to realise their projects. In addition, where all preparations have been completed, the evaluation or revision of the established system by independent external auditors has started. This is particularly important because the revision is a job that cannot be done quickly and therefore it took nearly two months to give a positive assessment of independent auditors a mandatory part of the package to be sent to the Commission with a request for system accreditation. Just before, a fellow former mayor also noted what this means is a quick and effective revision of the construction of fire roads along the Adriatic coast and islands. Unmerciful and insolent. The one who did not know how to do it will no longer work on these projects, nor will they earn a safe kuna even at a time when it is not summer season. A request for system accreditation, a permit to work with European money for the PHARE programme and ISPA was sent to the European Commission in July 2005 and SAPARD in March 2006. Afterwards, the audit of the entire system was carried out by the auditors of the European Commission whose positive assessment was crucial to the European Commission on the decision on accreditation or delegation of powers. Of course, on 7 February 2006, the European Commission adopted a decision on the transfer of powers, granting licences for the use of funds under the PHARE CARDS pre-accession programmes and on 13 February 2006 for ISPA. The European Commission's decision on the transfer and management power of the SAPARD was adopted on 29 September 2006 by the European Commission. It is this way that the quality of the established system is confirmed and, above all, the hard work and efforts made by the Government and by the present State Secretary and all state bodies that have led to excellent results. But I would also point out that this encourages and encourages the work of all units of local and regional self-government without whose participation we cannot use in the final and use funds from pre-accession funds. Of course, I want to point out that there is never a lot of good speed because some jobs, especially water and waste water, can only work on islands in a certain part of the year. From June to October they can't work. Here, I particularly highlight all the current programme for water and waste water on the island of Hvar, which is just a confirmation of the regularity of work as the government does, and just now reports on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union will be a useful way and I believe that not only in this current way of notifying and standardisation, but also further efforts are made in this direction to encourage all those who need to contribute to such programmes to be implemented. And right here in a vivid way is, for example, on page 12 when it's said about the SAPARD agency "organize" for the first time is mentioned, we encounter this kind of description detailing what it is and how it is, job description, employee résumés, human training strategy, procedure. We have had the opportunity and the opportunity to send our young experts from the Split-Dalmatian County to education bases across Europe, in Brussels for example, but this at no cost because we have found ways to in exactly the way they talk about the use of pre-accession funds enable those young people who want training to get the best fit. I won't even speak to many workshops, working groups. There are no such reports here because they are not needed in this programme, and I think it was just the wrong way that some of the county wanted and started their own office in Brussels because when you look at it, did they order anything? Zero points and only big expenses in your budget. This time frame systems is the best way to exploit and co-finance, to get money because it does not only mean to spend other people's money but also to use and share your responsibility and ultimately only honor and glory to pick up for yourself when a water line ends, when a wastewater system or waste management centre ends for example. These are great things where we want to encourage the work of the Croatian Government, our state secretary here present to use and in this way inform this tall body, the Croatian Parliament, to take responsibility when we return to our constituents, to convince what is being done here. So this, this report should be accepted in full and encouraged by all those working on these programs to do it as successfully and well as ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87565	Thank you. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87566	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Radoš has already expressed all the views of our Club on this report and I will not repeat that by wanting to save some time, but I have reported that I am responding to something that we first heard from fellow Hebrang and now my colleague Matusic has talked about. And that's the timing of this report. Let's not do that again. I think we've told each other enough all day. Look, the student's already going to the sixth grade of elementary school. Six years. We've just organized our first parenting meeting. Is it the school, you or the parents, us? It doesn't matter. But there was no meeting. This is the first time we've tried to figure out how to do better. Then a colleague of Hebrang said to make the project complicated. And yes and no. It's not complicated if it's about professional people, people who are competent, but if professional and competent people don't do it then things get complicated and then the projects are clearly not "God knows what" and then the grades are as they are. I have already said countless times that both these projects and many things in this country should have worked in coordination with other and levels of government. I ask again when it comes to regional development, when it comes to rural development, how many times have the ministers sat down with the mayors, with the people from the chambers of the economy, from the craft chambers there would hear a number of good ideas. If it had been systematically done, and if the paper had all this probably, and the work itself of preparing these projects would have gone smoothly, it would have been easier, it would have been better. Unfortunately, however, such meetings, and systematicity, and coordination in us are not enough. There isn't. No matter what we claim or how much we try to justify. Let's say I'm interested here in mentioning the rural development strategy of the Republic of Croatia. Who worked for her? We don't have any data here. I hope the Secretary of State answers me. If this country has a development strategy, then all it had to do was rip out that component relating to rural development, translate into English, and the job is done. Then why brag? It's a routine, then. But I don't think that's routine. My colleague Chuhnil spoke nicely about areas that were completely abandoned from the program. I won't say it again. Just because there was no contact again, no coordination, no agreement, no will to hear someone on the ground to then implement it into our projects. Now I'm going to touch myself a little bit, and just this report, and you're going to see some more things that could have been and should have been more quality to us. And we're very serious about this, this report went through at the club and here each of us has taken a part of the obligation to say something about that report. First, on page 14, where "PHARE", "Cards" and "ISPA" on this third column are missing data on the date of the request. It's not clear to me that you don't know when the request was sent. If something else was missing in the material, you'd understand. But that's exactly the kind of information I don't know I can miss. Then regarding "PHARE Cro Slovenija", this is probably Hungary, too, and "Cro Hrvatska Italy" is said to have been requested twice, but the funds have not been obtained. It's probably about the rejected projects, so it would be good to hear about it, and why are these projects rejected? If we don't make the same mistakes if it concerns some projects from my region, I'd like to clearly warn people that they can and should be better next time. Then Appendix 3 and there's a few interesting things. First of all, on page 1, "Tarriage for the Development of Tourism", almost EUR 1 million. I would very much like to know because I come from a tourist region to what did the Ministry of Tourism spend these funds on? Is it for the development of health tourism, cultural tourism or some kind of third form of tourism? Then on page 4. Strengthening the capacity for administrative decentralisation. Somewhere in the middle of that page. Ten million kunas about. One million and EUR 350 thousand. User of the Central State Administration Office. I would very much like to know a little more about this project. What are these funds being spent on? Why? I'm a scientist and my entire science team gets 120,000 kuna a year. We have a net average score, a large number of publications, a large number of quotes from scientists from around the world, and this amount would be enough for my team to work for 80 years. So I'm wondering what the colleagues at the Ministry spent that money on? We can even go back to two pages early. So we have one gift for the establishment of the center of excellence. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is a beneficiary of these funds. That gift would be enough for my scientific team, which is not theoretical, but we buy expensive agencies, we maintain the apparatus, and so on for a full 150 years of work. So let's not underestimate those resources. It's an enormous asset, and we have the right to at least ask to hear what it's being spent on. The last item in this Annex 3 is the assessment of the source of solar energy and wind energy. User of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. I personally don't think there are enough competent people in the ministry to do that. They'll probably give some institution that's what they're gonna do to Ruger, is give it to another energy institute to do it. Again, I'm wondering who's going to do it, when they're going to do it, what are the deadlines, the actual carriers. This is pro form. And we finally have to tell our colleagues and colleagues when we add all of this together for one calendar year then we get about 10, 15% of the total funds needed to adapt state administrations to European standards, to work in new conditions, new, higher quality. We spend about 2 billion kuna a year. So we see how much more than these large funds we have to give ourselves enormous money, and that is why I think we have the right as an opposition to ask questions about where this big money goes both from Europe and from our budgets. That's what we and our citizens certainly have the right to know. So, the great responsibility of a colleague lies with you but also with us to ask and to ask for better answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87567	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87568	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with my colleague, Doric, that many of these questions he has asked deserve an answer. One question is whether this report is related to these details regarding the implementation of all these projects, such as the Center of Excessiveness, etc. Is that the right address exactly the national fund or don't know which ministry. I think the real address is, however, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which should be given complete information regarding the implementation of this project. But that we need to know what happened to these funds and what they're specifically spent in, you absolutely have the support of all of us. That's not controversial. What I cannot agree with in your part of the exhibition you mentioned communication with local self-government units, with representatives of local self-government, counties, cities, municipalities, etc. Namely, when talking about 300 lectures in 2005 and 450 lectures in 2006 of course these lectures continue in 2007 then you should know that these lectures were for target groups, including local self-government units. Therefore, representatives of local self-government units regularly call for all these lectures, these seminars. Therefore, they are not the lectures of the Ex-Catedra in terms of the inability to communicate and the inability to obtain all the information necessary and related to pre-accession funds. On the contrary. At these seminars, all the doubts are raised in the lectures, everything that is questionable in this process can be easily removed and said how best to approach them. The very fact that 350 different lectures have been organised for the SAPARD alone in one year, I think it speaks enough for everyone, that enormous effort and effort has been made to make final users and all those interested and not only there are not local self-government units. It's about the media. So, the press. It's about NGOs. And that's what you mentioned. It's an economic craft chamber. They were also regularly invited to all these lectures, all these seminars that were organised by the Ministry or the Fund, etc. So I can't agree with you. They may not have responded, but on the side of the government, or the government's representative, these institutions that we're talking about today and whose report we have before us have done everything to inform these people. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87569	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87570	Comrade Matusic, you're talking about technicals. It's the part of the seminar. How to access the project, and I'm talking about content. The mayor, the minister, the president of the County Chamber of Commerce, should have thrown out the contents and carriers. So these are two important different things, and I agree, and I'm glad that you agree that there are a number of very serious things that we should have heard today, and that's why I'm sorry that now the secretary of state has to try to cover all these areas that I think looking at financially maybe. But professionally not. Therefore, there should have been at least three here, four ministers whose projects are to go clearly with us, and my proposal is that in the future they will be with us and that in this sense we can really go to the point regarding individual projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87571	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87572	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, dear colleague Doric is just referring to this debate of yours, and I think it is here, and the report says that the resolution ministries and other bodies of the state administration, except that they are responsible for preparing sectoral proposals and project proposals in the programming process are also responsible for the technical implementation of the European Union assistance programme, and within them are also units for project implementation. That's what it says right here. It's just that it hasn't been fun, you know, all that in time. It didn't go the right way, and exactly the frequent changes, and the people who did that didn't give you the results, you know. And then I believe in one part of it, maybe even not knowing certain problems, because it's not clear to me how some of the things that were planned for the projects were thrown out, and then we're back again and we haven't used some of the funds. This says that obviously we did not stick to this report here, which is what it says, and I appreciate that in that part of the ministers, they may clearly try to carry out, and they are not all so responsible, but these very people who, who run certain parts, are in charge of certain parts of the implementation of these programmes. And the best examples have already been made today during this debate both in the SAPARD and in the others. Therefore, our goal must be to put responsible people who will know how to implement this, and then we will get a report saying that the resolution bodies are responsible and that they have implemented what was necessary for pre-accession funds programmes to be used maximum. And then we would come to what I was saying in the debate that we can be proud of, like, one Ireland that came from 2% of the population to 11% of all from the European Union. No one in Europe did it except Ireland. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87573	Reply to the replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87574	I'd like to thank my colleague Ledinsky. Our goal for 21 of us who signed this interpretation was the one you just said. Since the government's commitments were not clearly recorded that we had this debate six months ago or 12 months ago, it was safe to correct what was to be corrected and to be more successful. So it was just our goal, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87575	Thank you. And a five-minute debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87576	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Maybe just for the end of today's debate on the first and second points because in some ways they're connected, we might explain the things we talked about as an opposition. I don't think we're really that different. In fact, what you've mostly looked back at is you from a position of form, as someone said today, and we've looked more at the content. Namely, this report that we got on the table here today is just proof that we should have received a report before, as we asked for this morning's Interpellation. Unfortunately, such a report as we got here can certainly show about the results made in the CARDS program, it can somewhat talk about the results of the PHARE. But what we're looking for is actually procedures and everything that's been done. So we didn't ask for a report on what had been achieved to the end, but what things were all going on in the process of realising these and withdrawing funds, that is. Now, here you can see very clearly, i.e. bringing our country together with some other countries, e.g. With Slovenia, our neighbour, Slovenia, let's say from pre-accession funds also withdrew the latest euro and cents offered. And even a few years before their opening, she was fully administratively and professionally prepared for it. While Croatia is still not prepared for this day. And that is why it is important to introduce a larger circle of people into this business. Convincing us whether we are as perfect and as I am fellow Matusic today, I said that if we were age and quality today, surely we would not be ruled by such Euroscepticism among our citizens. So I say the information we provide to the citizens is too little. We can't say that someone else is to blame. It can only be the government's fault for now and at the beginning. So it is the government that needs to communicate with citizens, and it is, of course, the primary need to communicate with us parliamentary representatives. And that's why these reports were needed. And if we'd talked about it every six months, we wouldn't have met in a situation like this today. Furthermore, it is also likely that people would then be aware of these large programs that you are talking about, or projects that you are talking about, from Tovarnik, Vinkovac, about the purifier in Karlovac County, etc. on all projects from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Waste Rehabilitation, etc. But, you know, it reminds me when recently one of our senior government officials said about corruption in Croatia that major shifts were made in the area of countering corruption, but that unfortunately, citizens do not see it yet. So it seems to me here to be talking about how big steps have been made in these pre-accession efforts, but unfortunately, citizens don't see it at all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87577	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87578	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's incorrect that we were talking about form and you were talking about content. We think exactly the opposite. We think you've just insisted on form through the conclusion that was in the Parliament, and we insisted on content. Because we warned you, you're through that conclusion. The conclusion clearly and unambiguously requires that a report be given on the withdrawn and unused assets. It's just not possible. Because the procedures have not yet reached that stage. The CARDS will be able to talk about unused funds, we said it was only agreed in July 2006. And the realisation of the projects is by the end of 2009. The second thing, I remember your statements that citizens live better just not to be aware of it. So I don't mean specifically your own, but the statements that came from your coalition. Says the citizens of the living pain just don't realize they're better off living. I mean, don't give us anything you've used in some way long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87579	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87580	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Here, I'll go from behind. Here I also thank you for this debate that was in some parts here, in one part and criticism, so I would try to answer it. And I'll start at the end. A comparison with Slovenia and with ten member states that entered the European Union in 2004 is impossible. Why? Because the European Commission has transferred money to these countries as part of pre-accession programmes in a completely different way than it transfers it to Croatia, i.e. by transferring it to Romania, Bulgaria, which entered early this year. The evidence for that is very simple. The financial regulation that prescribes the use of pre-accession programmes was adopted in 2002. Look at this Financial Regulation, and you'll understand. Much stricter, much more detailed ways have been prescribed, much more difficult procedures that require much greater administration engagement than was the case in the countries that entered the European Union in 2004. You said you wanted to know what was going on in the process. Well, I can only tell you one thing. If I brought you one accreditation package, that is to say, if I were to add up all together the PHARE accreditation packages, for ISPA and for SAPARD, it would probably not always be on the pile because there would be a ceiling of this hall. How big is the accreditation package for one program. So a series of registrators, a series of procedures, a series of rules that the Croatian administration had to overcome in a very short time. Therefore, the European Commission has learned from 10 countries in a certain way and has laid down much stricter rules. That is why it has introduced a pre-accession IPA programme which, in some ways, calls for a deeper and more organised structure within the countries that will benefit from the new financial perspective from 2007 to 2014. So Croatia has one unfortunate situation that actually goes twice through complete accreditation. First she had to pass PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD to use and now she has to go over again from the beginning for the IPA. If that wasn't the case, you wouldn't be asking for full accreditation from the beginning. As far as these are concerned, this part of the question why the date of the request to the European Commission has not been put here. They weren't put in because they weren't supposed to send requests, because that money came automatically after the accreditation was obtained. As for certain contracts and ministries working on it, here I agree with Representative Matusic, who says that only the ministries could give these simple answers. Again, if I think it is necessary and if answers are given to that last detail, complete descriptions of business, procedure, etc. For one of these contracts would be up to 400, 500 pages if it were put inside. So it's about very complex and detailed procedures and the amount of material that we would like to see here if you wanted to see it all together. Here you have information and, of course, you can get all relevant information in the resolution ministry. What is more important, and unfortunately when you talk about monitoring all this together, every conclusion of the contract concluded under the CARDS in 2002, 2003, and the future when it will be for the CARDS in 2004 and the rest, has a commitment and what there is a means to do. the visibility of the so-called "invest" so-called "invest" the events where all the relevant factors that have worked therefore, the institutions, the people, are invited to present themselves to the final detail of what is and how the funds have been spent. So for that there is, there is in every phase of the project so-called. phase reports implementing the delegation, since the delegation, i.e. the European Commission, is a donor where all these people participate, supervisory committees in ministries. So there are a series of complete continuous and detailed reporting. As far as the rural development strategy was concerned, the Ministry of Agriculture worked and, of course, it was adopted and can be found on the pages of the Ministry of Agriculture. This is the Use Report is not a Programming Report. As for programming and the whole PHARE process, for example, in 2006, the Parliament recently ratified the agreement. There, down to the details, it was written about every project that was going to be done, so I don't think there's any need to repeat it over and over again. So here we are reporting the use of pre-accession funds, first and foremost, as stated in the title. As regards that part of the debate which went in the direction of speaking about centralised contracts, therefore contracts contained in the delegation of the European Commission and as a delegation of the European Commission exercise jurisdiction and responsibility there is no Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance in that sense does not give a report on something, so it is not responsible, the responsible delegation of the European Commission and the resolution ministries who, together with it, worked on these programmes and agreed on the implementation of these works. I say again at the end of each of these contracts when the contract is executed there is therefore a visibility inventory, so the event where one of these contracts is promoted. So nothing's lost along the way, and there's not a word about it at all. There were demands here to talk about PHARE in 2005, 2006, a little more etc. So these are all the things that were recently in the Parliament. As for programming, therefore, the ratification of these agreements was, and these programmes were here in the Assembly on the benches. When agreed, when we know how much we used in terms of bargaining which is not yet the end of the process, then we will, and in the meantime, report to the Parliament as we have now detailedly informed him about the CARDS in 2003 and when the time comes, of course, how much has been done. The withdrawal, therefore, by the end of 2009 of some projects for ISPA and by the end of 2010. When it comes to PHARE in 2006, then we are already coming to 2011 as far as the implementation is concerned. Of course, those are deadlines. We're not saying that we're going to get to these deadlines, so it's very likely that everything will be done and done before, because for those of you who have agreed, who are doing affairs in the interest, it's going to be done much earlier. I'd also like to say that the control by the delegation of the European Commission is temporary. The administration should be given time and support to qualify with experience with the knowledge that this control, this ex-sante control, the control carried out in advance by the delegation of the European Commission, is slowly dismissed. So in time, how the administration will be increasingly capable and capable, and this will be the time before entering the European Union, after which these brakes will be released, the supervision that exists by the European Commission delegation will eventually be fired. And, of course, in this context, the administration in this case all these bodies that are listed in the report are therefore from the central bargaining unit to the national fund and others are working on it and all the requirements are met. The auditors keep coming. Every month, almost the auditors from the European Commission come in and monitor what we did, how we did, where we made mistakes, how the procedures were set up. So continuous surveillance of this system exists, so there is no possibility of non-transparentity to do something, etc. The system is in continuous surveillance and, of course, through all this together, its success will be guaranteed. In any case, I would like to point out, therefore, and I think that in this case, the Government has fully fulfilled the conclusion, given a full report and I suggest that the Honorable House back this report from the Government on the use of pre-accession programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87581	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87582	I don't think so. It is not true, Mr. Secretary of State, that we would be surprised, because we do not know what an accreditation package is or how large and extensive material it is that must be handed over when reporting a project of several hundred pages. You have to let some of us do the same thing to everyone in our area. I write projects daily and participate in VII. the framework programme in the field of science. But all I did here was ask for the right to ask a question which is the objective of this project. Who will participate in the realization? Is it also how the realisation is going? Are those funds justified? Nothing else. That's what I want to ask. ... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that can't be answered by the secretary of state. Then it's not impossible to establish that this is a full report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87583	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 68 votes in favour, 20 abstentions and 10 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87586	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This Law confirms the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the implementation of military exercises. Namely, with NATO and... In fact, at its December 2001 session, the Croatian Parliament adopted a regulation declaring the Law on the Implementation of the so-called so-called Law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] NATO's PfP agreement, which only frameworkally regulates procedures related to entry, exit and transfer of the territory of the Republic of Croatia by the armed forces of NATO members and the Partnership for Peace, has shown the need to conclude additional agreements that regulate implementation issues. The purpose of this Memorandum is, in effect, to establish the responsibilities and general principles relating to the implementation of military exercises and to the provision of support to the host country and to describe the standards, type and manner of support that the host state will provide to guest forces during the exercise. They're also scheduled for every exercise so-called. Implementing arrangements as an auxiliary document to this Memorandum and they will be concluded for any training and other training activities or something like that. Of course, this Law does not interfere with the applicable procedure for the approval of each of the military exercises carried out by the armed forces on or outside their territory by the armed forces and by other states, as the Croatian Parliament will continue to make a special decision for each exercise. This memorandum also has no intention of coming into conflict with the laws of the host country or any international agreements in force between the participants and, in the event of any dispute, the provisions of the applicable laws will prevail. So, the PFP NATO will apply... and appropriate training plans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The State will, in accordance with the approved procedure, take all necessary measures to facilitate the admission of roaming forces at certain entry points, further movements to certain training areas, exercise or training areas. It will also comply with customs formalities according to the provisions of PfP... and procedures which are in force and which are in accordance with the legislation of the host country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What else to say. Therefore, medical and dental treatment will be ensured in accordance with Article 9. NATO... , in the event of an investigation by the military authorities of the host country, an incident or an accident involving persons of the visiting forces, the visiting authorities may have an observer during each official investigation, the procedures for environmental protection will also be followed in detail and will be elaborated by each exercise lab in accordance with the implementing agreement and the provisions of NATO PfP... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the memorandum shall take effect on the day on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia informs the Government of the Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of the fulfilment of all necessary conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here is what respected MPs and MPs would be brief information on the content of this Memorandum Confirmation Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-26-0.u87587	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. No one checked in. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Resume tomorrow at 10:00 with Kyoto protocol. Final draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the implementation of military exercises and training and support to the host country. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 96 votes for, 3 abstentions passed by the proposed law.
