ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84442	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work at the 24th session of the Croatian Parliament and we are going to discuss: - The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2006, - the report on the audits carried out for 2005 and - the report on the audits carried out for 2005, the special part, the official secret. ... As regards this particular section of the 2005 review report, which concerns, it should be voted on to take down the official secret mark, but when the quorum comes, then we will vote on it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now we can't vote. In accordance with Article 11. The State Audit Act was submitted by the State Audit Office to those reports. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Chief State Auditor Šima Krasic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84443	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So here's the 12th time we deliver a report on the work of the State Audit Office, annually and on the audits carried out. This report refers to the 2006 work report and the audits carried out in 2005 and some years earlier because you know that we perform some and audits for two or three years. According to the Law on State Audit, we owe our annual work report, report on the audits carried out to the Croatian Assembly by the end of the year for the previous year, which we do every year. Namely, there are also some questions as to why 2007 is now and there are no reports for 2006 already. Well, the audit is, uh, starting with the review, the financial report. Reports of audit entities and until we have financial reports as the basis of the basic document, we cannot begin the audit. So now we're doing a review for 2006. Financial reports are being submitted these days, and some of the subjects will teach them at the end of the third month or at the end of the fourth month. The annual programme and work plan shall be adopted for the Office's tasks. The following criteria have been applied when drawing up the 2006 Work Plan for the selection of audit entities: statutory audit obligations, unfavourable opinions on financial reports and business from the previous year, material significance of irregularities, number of applications submitted, requests and requests for audits by individual entities and collected data from other institutions and public media. According to the provisions of the Law, the Office is required to carry out annual audits of the State budget, at the level of the State or of the institution and of the budget of the local units. All other audits shall be carried out according to the programme and work plan of the State Audit Office. Notwithstanding the type of audit entities, the objectives of the audit were as follows: to verify the truthfulness and credibility of financial reports, to verify the achievement of revenue and receipts, to carry out expenditure and expenditure, and to purposely spend resources as determined by the State budget, the budget of local units, financial plans and other regulations. Check financial and other transactions in terms of legal use of funds, verify the application of legal and other regulations relating to the organisation and financial accounting operations and to cover the entire operations of the audit entity by audit procedures. The audit procedures shall cover financial reports and business reports of the entities to determine whether the financial statements show the true and objective financial position and the results of the financial activity and whether the operations are carried out in accordance with the regulations. The audit shall cover the following areas: the work cycle and the internal structure of the entities with a focus on the organisation and performance of internal control activities, accounting operations and revenues and expenditures, which focus particular attention on the planning and spending process. The audit has checked the efficiency and economy of public spending. Special attention shall be paid to procurement procedures and to the application of public procurement regulations in view of the significant resources spent thereon. The report on the work of the Office for 2006 shall contain information on the implementation of the annual work programme and on the number of audits carried out. The main features of the budgetary system and the budgetary surveillance system and the audit procedures and methods are described. The report gives a summary of the findings, recommendations of the audits carried out with a review of the opinions given. A review of the number of tasks and recommendations given shall also be given, as well as the number of tasks carried out and recommendations accepted in time after the revision. In addition to data on audits carried out, the report shall also provide information on the financial operations of the Office. In addition to the international cooperation and the implementation of the strategic plan, the internal audit work carried out during the previous reporting period has been described. During this reporting period from 1 October 2005 to 30 September 2006 The Office carried out 747 audits of which 484 audits of financial reports and operations and 262 audits of the financial statements of units of local or regional self-government. One performance review has been carried out, nature protection in the area of Risnjak National Park. We worked together in parallel with the revision of Slovenia. We've been comparing data and we can take certain joint measures because it's animal habitats that go from one area to another, and they're protected. The audit of financial reports and operations was carried out for the State budget and 29 users of the Budget. 380 local units, 54 companies owned by the state and local units, 3 non-profit organisations, 4 projects and 85 other entities involving centres for social care, museums, theatres, libraries, schools, kindergartens, student homes, music institutions, cultural institutions, health institutions, public fire departments and other users. From that number of audits of financial reports and operations carried out. Eight audits were carried out as a pilot of the audits under targeted projects under the prescribed procedures by testing manuals and guidelines for the work of the European Union’s State Auditors with the application of new IT tools. The same procedure has also been applied to change the performance review. Public funds totalling one hundred forty-four billion kuna have been audited, of which 121 billion kuna or 85.6% refer to the budget of the state and local budget. As part of the budget, the revenue of the state budget is 103.1 billion kuna or 85.2%. The City of Zagreb's incomes are 5.6 billion or 4.6% while other units of local or regional self-government are 12.3 billion kuna or 10.2%. In addition to budgetary appropriations, the audit procedures cover other public funds of 20.4 billion. They relate to the revenue of audited, public, municipal, and non-profit organisations. In addition to tax revenues, the most significant revenue from the state budget is contributions to pension and health insurance, as well as employment. In 2006, a contribution to health insurance amounted to €14.1 billion. Contribution to pension insurance 15.7 billion kuna and to the employment of 987 million kuna. It should be pointed out here that expenditure is significantly higher than the revenue achieved. Thus, the expenditure of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute amounted to HRK 16.1 billion, and the insufficient funds of 2 billion kuna were compensated from other budget revenues or their own income from the Institute. The expenditure of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute amounted to €24.3 billion, so that insufficient funds of €8.6 billion are compensated from other budgets. 23.7 billion kuna and 50.9 per cent more than the funds raised by contributions were allocated for pension payments. The employment contribution was made in the amount of 987 million kuna, and the Employment Service spent a billion kuna. He made a difference in assets out of his own income. The revenues of the City of Zagreb and other local units were achieved by one whole three billion more than the revenues in the previous year. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, a report on the audits carried out is drawn up with findings and recommendations, and an opinion on the business and financial reports of legal entities, audited entities. All reports have been submitted to legal representatives, councils and local unit assemblies so that certain actions can be taken and irregularities detected. We expect the representative bodies to whom we present the report on local units to be entrusted and responsible persons in chieftains, to take certain measures to require their executive bodies not to make certain irregularities, i.e. documents, or in the future. With a report delivered from the legal representative of the audited entity, we ask for a written statement that within 60 days, we are informed of what they have done to our findings. In this way, before the start of the second audit, the office is trying to influence the audit entities to remove certain irregularities, i.e. that some irregularities do not. The State Audit Act lays down the powers of offices that are in line with international standards, guidelines of the European Union and with the good practice of other countries. The Office shall not have the power to take any criminal measures. This is done for by authorised state institutions – lawyers, the MUP and others who are. However, I will point out here that correct cooperation with those institutions has been achieved. Only during this reporting period has 70 cases been co-operated with the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK. On 31 cases with the MUP and 18 cases with the Croatian Privatisation Fund. On several cases with the Tax Administration and other institutions that have certain knowledge of business, i.e. which have important information for us, we exchange such information as the Treasury and others. Some of these procedures are carried out on request, i.e. according to the established irregularities of our office, and some of the waters in which we contribute to our knowledge, collected data to ensure that these procedures are implemented as correctly as possible. The audits carried out during the previous reporting period were carried out by the office of audit entities with a total of 3140 tasks and recommendations. According to the evidence received within 60 days of the submission of the report, 1467 orders and recommendations or 46.7% of the total number of orders were received. I would also like to point out here that all irregularities are not also punishable, that we, in our audit, determine, in the financial audit compliance with the laws, economically or effectively spending funds, that is to say, an assessment of the business of the entity. Rules such as implementing rules, regulations, rules, instructions, etc. are also applied. who have no sanctions. So a large number of these irregularities are probably not even sanctioned but are also trying to comply with all the law-based implementing rules. In addition to objectively identifying the facts about the business of the entities, and giving orders and recommendations to improve the business of the office is to inform the Croatian Parliament and the public about how public funds can be made available. This is what they do in all countries and the biggest support the office has is to implement its public and MPs in parliament. In addition to objective fact-finding, the data collected during the review are official secrets until reports are delivered to the Croatian Assembly, and at local level, representative bodies when they become available to the public after the debate in the Assembly reports are available to the public on our websites so that everyone who wants to do so can already be used today. The audit reports submitted to this Assembly have 467 pages. It contains one summary of some 22000 pages of audit reports made by auditors during this period. The summary of the report on the audit carried out consists of three parts – opinions, general data, warrants and recommendations. In accordance with the audit standards and according to the usual practice of our institutions, on the basis of the facts established, the opinion on the financial statements and business of the audited entity is expressed. For several years now, we have been giving regular opinions, which differ in unconditional, conditional, unfavorable and abstention. It is unconditional that when irregularities have been identified, they are not present or insignificant. Where irregularities are identified but are not more relevant for the operation of the entity, the threshold of the significance of those irregularities shall be determined and the type of opinion shall be calculated. Where significant irregularities have been identified, an unfavourable opinion shall be given. And we have a abstention when we do not have available data, or we cannot produce an opinion because a limited scope review is being carried out. During this reporting period for financial and business reports 102 or 21% of the audited entities, an unconditional opinion has been expressed. For 9 or 1.8% unfavourable. While all other audited entities are subject to conditional opinion 373. I would also like to point out here that all entities, if we have expressed an unfavourable opinion, are delivering to the institutions that are for this... that there are no criminal acts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An increased number of state-level entities with unconditional opinion and a reduced number of entities at local levels. The impact of the revision is evident through positive shifts in the management of business books, the preservation and use of public property, spending and more rational management of public roads. Part of the report describing the general data refers to the basic financial indicators of the audited entity, and in the accounts and recommendations are listed in a reduced form of significant irregularities in their business and give orders and recommendations to our office. After these framework data on the office, on the number and type of audits, and on the number of opinions given as the total amount of audited funds, I will present the basic data from the findings of the audits carried out during this reporting period. In fact, every year we see improvement in the audits, both in our work, more quality of our reports and in the work of the audit entities. The most common irregularities can be divided into 3 groups. The first is an irregularity in accounting business. In fact, irregularities in the non-planning and spending of funds and irregularities in public procurement procedures. The number of irregularities relating to accounting operations is reduced. The most common irregularities in accounting business are the list of assets, liabilities and claims. But the lists are not complete, that they do not comply with the accounting status, or with the actual state. Incorrect recording of individual incomes and expenditures, recording of expenditure at the time of payment instead of at the time of the commitment. That's what we're doing again and we're trying to accept it. Some of the formal errors in the management of auxiliary books, records, books on wrong accounts, etc. audits are being discussed and most of them are being corrected at the time. Irregularities in the part of income and observations and expenditure most often relate to unrealistic planning of expenditure execution in accordance with financial plans. The Office also warned of insufficient control of transferred, i.e. transferred funds to budgetary users and others. We know that budget users are required to control what the transferred funds are spent and must have feedback on this. The third group of irregularities concerns the implementation of public procurement procedures. It is estimated that 35 billion kunas of public funds, the assets of companies and public institutions owned by state and local units were spent in public procurement during the revised period. According to our data, 11 thousand 205 public procurement, high value, and 17 thousand low value purchases were published. We therefore believe that there were some 28 thousand public procurements in that period. The audit covers public procurement funds of around 21.3 billion kuna, with regard to the users of the state budget of 29 entities, 7.9 billion of which 2.8 billion refer to medicines. Local units 308 entities 2.3 billion. Other budget users, 85, 132.6 million kuna. Commercial companies owned by entities, state-owned and local 10.7 billion. Commercial companies owned by local units of 45 entities, 952 million kuna and a non-profit organisation of 117 million kuna. That's why this area is very important. It has a direct impact on the efficiency of the use of budgetary resources. Although public procurement has been carried out for 10 years under the rules, the rules have developed and appropriate practices still arise in this area, whether they are failures in certain procedures or are obtained without the application of the provisions of the law. It is important to stress that the revision checks all procurement procedures from planning to realisation, except for the Public Procurement Act. The provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations apply to the supply, and certain issues are regulated by the Budget Act. The most frequent irregularities were seen in the adoption of procurement plans that must be in line with the financial plans, so unreal, uncovered procurement is being made. When setting up and keeping the prescribed procurement records and closing contracts, the appointment of procurement commissions, the sharing of the same purchase during the year in order to be carried out under a regulation or public or limited collection of tenders instead of a public offering. The audit noted that the Public Procurement Office has often been asked to agree directly and a significant part of the procurement was made in the social majority ownership of the state or local units not subject to the provisions of the law. That article has now been amended. It has been applied since 1.10.2005 so that the office can no longer give, the conditions of purchase have changed by direct contract. At local levels for a smaller number of units, default irregularities have been identified, since no borrowing consent has been obtained, the prescribed borrowing rate has been exceeded, and in certain cases the debt is not permitted. The number of irregularities and their frequency of occurrences in business and financial reports of audited entities points to the need to establish a strong internal audit of the establishment of an ongoing internal control system and, therefore, the Office has also warned in all reports of this fact. Mr. President, MPs, MPs only briefly wanted to draw attention to the Office, its powers and tasks, the way in which the audit is carried out, and to the most frequent irregularities that occur in the audited entities. All the jobs described over the past year have been carried out by the Office with 274 employees, of which 217 are authorised auditors. According to the qualification structure of 228 employees have high equipment or 83% of which is an employee doctor of science, 10 employees are masters of science and 5 specialists. I stress this because they've all gotten you into the Office, working at the Office, and perfecting themselves on domestic and foreign projects, training programs. It may also be good to point out that the Office employs 208 women or 75.9% and 66 men 24%. So we have received in the last 10 years about 100 trainees who today are top auditors and perform, but they have their own private lives, so at that time 106 children were born in the State Audit Office. One symbolic, but good news that comes with work and that, they do their own private business. That's what I'm saying because we usually had 20 auditors on sick leave during the year. In the following, I will briefly look back at the Office's programming tasks for next year. In accordance with the Strategic Development Plan of the Office, which is in line with the standards of the European Union and adopted by its representatives, certain tasks and tasks have been set in the next reporting period, which are regularly auditing financial reports and operations in accordance with the provisions of the State Audit Act. Specific activities shall focus on audits of the efficiency of public spending. We've already started doing it, they're taking longer because they're examining all transactions, but I think they'll be effective after implementation. To implement the measures and activities envisaged by the Action Plan to combat corruption, which is in line with the National Corruption Management Programme. We participate in both this and the action plan, we deliver all the necessary information to the Office and discuss it. Further, carry out continuous education of state auditors with expert seminars to be as ready as possible for the most desirable audits and for audits to be carried out for European, or pre-accession funds. Co-operate with other authorities and professional scientific institutions to carry out their tasks and to further develop and establish cooperation with a number of audit institutions within our international associations, as well as to cooperate with countries that have related audit systems. This not only improves the quality of the work of state auditors but contributes to further developing international relations. Continue the ongoing process of modernising the information system and linking it to other public sector information systems at national level. Now I think we're connecting to the State Treasury, so we'll be able to get more data available and we'll be able to keep track of what's... In the context of the process of including the Republic of Croatia in European integration, to implement international obligations and to seek and participate in joint projects. [[You don't understand.]] So far, we've been working on several joint projects so that we can carry them out successfully with us. Independence and... the work of the Office must continue to be present at the business. [[You don't understand.]] By posting on the website of the Office of all our reports available to the public, we meet the principle of public work of the State Audit Office. Finally, I would point out that since 2004, the Office for Audit has been involved in the CARDS programme through... a project funded by the European Commission with two million euros. They're grants. The project is being implemented in co-operation with the UK State Audit and its 30-month implementation, now ending mid-year. Our state auditors have gone through all the financial audits, some efficiency audits, and a large part of them have been visiting other audits to see how they work and how they do. This would be about this work of the Office on Audits, which could be talked about very much. But we've given a lot of material. All our reports are on the CDs that we have shared, and we are here to explain all possible questions, to clarify, and we would very much like to accept your suggestions and recommendations which we could do better, which perhaps should be paid more attention to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84444	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, President of the Committee, Honored Representative of Šima Prtnječa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84445	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee shall hold its 68th session, based on Article 65. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament discussed this topic. In its opening statement, the representative of the State Audit Office pointed out that the obligation to submit the Annual report on the work of the State Audit Office and to submit the report on the audits carried out was carried out in accordance with the provisions of Article 11. The State Audit Act. During this reporting period, the State Audit Office carried out 484 audits of financial reports and business entities at national and local level, and of which 8 audits in the framework of the tweening project and 262 insights into the financial reports of local units. The audit of financial reports and operations covers the state budget and 29 users of the state budget, 3 non-profit organisations, 4 projects, 308 local units, 54 companies or legal entities owned by the state and local units, 19 centres for social care, 18 museums, 5 public fire departments, and 42 entities, theatres, etc. Revised public funds totalling 141 billion 429 million etc. in this reporting period, the audited entities are expressed by the State Audit Office 102 unconditional opinions, 373 conditional opinions and 19 unfavourable opinions. The audit of the irregularities identified most often refers to the accounting business of income and income, expenditure and expenditure, in particular in the part of the planned funds and dedicated expenditure and public procurement procedures. After an audit has been carried out, the State Audit Office shall monitor the activities of all audited entities where irregularities have been identified and requests that those entities be made public within 60 days of being taken according to the findings and recommendations of the State Audit Office. The following audit shall be carried out in the light of the observations of those entities. The Committee discussed the increase in the number of audited entities at the state level in 2005 for which the State Audit Office expressed an unconditional opinion on financial reports and business and reduced the number of audited entities at local level which expressed an unfavourable opinion. The audited entities in 2005 made positive moves in the management of business books, the preservation and use of public property, spending and the rational management of public funds. However, it has been warned that the same irregularities have been repeated for a number of years with regard to audited entities relating to accounting operations, the planning of funds and their intended spending and in particular public procurement procedures. The Committee took the view that a positive trend from the previous reporting period with regard to spending and rational management of budgetary resources was continued by most audited entities during that reporting period. However, it is necessary to continue to strengthen control with the assistance of internal audits in order to ensure that all transactions are carried out in accordance with the legal rules. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. One is accepted (a) a report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2006. (b) report on audits carried out for 2005. And under c) a report on the audits carried out for 2005, a special part, although we are likely to discuss this particular section later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84446	Thank you. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84447	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Every year, when a report of the State Audit comes to Parliament and here in the Parliament and in the Croatian public, there is a great expectation of what it says, that the debate will take place and that Parliament will adopt the conclusions, take into account knowledge, reject or draw other conclusions with these conclusions. And it always ends on about the same or similar conclusion, forgetting that the State Audit Authority has extended the hand of Parliament to which we have legally given the power to monitor on our behalf the rationality, legality and regularity in the business of those who receive money from the state budget or in different ways use the funds of the taxpayers of this state. According to both the law and the standards that bind them, their report is a description of the situation, the finding and the opinion. The opinion of each of the audited entities shall be given the right to demonstrate itself and then in Article 7. The State Audit Act states that this audit report shall be submitted to the legal representative, the legal person where the audit has been carried out and to the competent minister or the fund. What does this provision mean? The legal representative for the ministry and the government, and the state funds, is this Parliament. For local self-government municipal, city councils and county parliaments. Have there been cases of individual representative bodies of the municipality, of the city or county singled out one of the findings or opinions of the state audit and initiated by law the procedures provided for to determine possible illegalities, filed a criminal application which was processed and processed? Maybe there is, but I couldn't find that data first, but I don't remember anything like that from the media reports. Is the Parliament, apart from that universal conclusion that everyone resorts to at the end of the day's debate, the report is adopted and delivered to the State's Attorney's office to determine whether there are any elements to initiate the criminal proceedings? This means that those 800 or 900 pages should ordinarily be delivered to Mr. Bajic that then read and decide whether there are any revised or controlled entities elements to take some other actions. It is encouraging that Mrs Krasic, as last time we talked about it, has been improving from year to year. That sentence remained in my memory the last time the review debate in 2002, 2003, was very intense in this House. The number of participants reported in the debate was likely to be recordable except for a possible budget. The ferocity until then unseen, qualifications, thieving, stealing, silliness, horror, maltene has been declared the end of the world. The entire former government should be arrested and imprisoned after the debate. I want to believe that this criticism will be heard today even though the situation is getting better from year to year, but criticism is not needed to praise that everything is better and better than to send a message with our criticism that and what is better is still not satisfactory for us because it can be even better. I leave discussions for my colleagues and colleagues for the budget, state funds, ministries, public procurement, and I will only remain on one segment of this report because this is the only material, systematised material from which the state of the units of local and regional self-government can be seen. The government and the Ministry of Finance never provided Parliament with such quality material from which we, as members of Parliament, could see the revenues and structure of the municipality's incomes, cities and counties, expenditures and their structure, fiscal capacities of local self-government units, rationality in business and how much they use or exploit their own potential for their budgets and progress. I think this is an extremely significant reading for the Ministry of Finance at the moment when it is being prepared, and I suggest that when we are here in Parliament and we are having a debate on decentralisation of fiscal, tax, whatever you want. But then never this report or this report was the basis for preparing decentralisation. And the data that comes then is always opposite, different, vague. So just because we talked a lot about it and because of the truth, I'm going to take a few data, a few percentages from this report, to realize that these three years and a few months, despite all the swearings of different proposals, we haven't even moved the tax system in this country by a millimeter in favour of local self-government. Moreover, what we have done unfortunately, and this will show data for 2007, because this is 2005, will be at the expense of local self-government. First fact. Communal fees and contributions, together with fees paid by citizens and legal persons, are 3 and a half billion kuna per year, which are not taxes, paratax revenues. 2.9% of all budget revenues, both state and local self-government. I repeat, three and a half billion kuna. At the same time, county, city, municipal taxes amount to 520 million kuna. Or about 0.5% of all budget revenues. Outside the tax system from citizens and legal persons and entrepreneurs 3 and a half billion go for different budgets. Furthermore, according to me, I only regret that the City of Zagreb is never shown in the same methodology as the county. Because the comparison would want to do not only 20 counties and within them municipalities and cities, but also the City of Zagreb, but. In 2005, the profit tax was the income of local self-government without the City of Zagreb 603 million kuna. In 2007, these items will not be. You know that. Real estate income was 390 million. And there's 60% of the belongings. If we had accepted our proposal that the entire real estate tax goes in favour of local and regional, it would have been the new 260 million kuna revenue. At least partially, the substitution of what they lost in the meantime. What does the state audit say about the fiscal capacities of the county in 2005? The average income of municipalities, cities and counties per capita in Croatia and year was 3 thousand kuna. I'll round up the amounts. Three thousand 371 kuna on average. This amounted to 7 thousand 251 kuna per capita in the City of Zagreb. However, all counties, all cities and municipalities have more or less the same obligations towards their citizens, institutions, a communal system of fire protection, health care and social care. What is this tax system that led to Krapina County, Sisak-Moslavina, Karlovačka, Varazdinska, Virovitičko-podravska, Požeška, Brod-Posaviska, Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijemska and Međimurska for 500 kuna for fiscal capacity being lower than the national average? Not for 5 kuna, not for 50 kuna, but for 500 kuna. At least 500 kuna. So the strongest of these are at 2,000 900 per capita. How, with 500 kunas less income per capita, do you also enforce the law of intended obligations against your citizens? And why is that? What's in common with these counties that I've listed for you? Green Croatia. Structure of agriculture, agriculture and its structure, economic structure and entrepreneurship. And it's not just about 2005. It's nothing new. Both the fourth and the third and the second and the first and the first and the year 2000, and they always show this same information. Do we have to fix the tax system to at least cut this down? If you don't... If Croatia's entire northwest is 500 kuna less fiscal capacity per capita, then we have to do something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Something in the system is not good. Both total income and tax revenues give the same ranking list. Same. And total and tax revenues. This is what the municipal chief, mayor or mayor of the first second takeover inherits, from which they begin and with these masters. So it doesn't matter to be mayor in the northern part of Croatia or in the south. It's not. And the territory of the county, when the population is taken into account, we're coming back to the same problem. Without the City of Zagreb, the strongest fiscal capacity has Istria County, 6 thousand 341 kuna per capita. Behind it is the Primorje-goranska with 5 thousand 400. But we do have a Ship-Posavina where there are thousands of 806 kunas. A thousand and eighty-six. Or the Vukovar-Sremish 2 thousand 091 kuna. Let's move on. So I repeat Zagreb 7 thousand 251 kuna. And when we compare the lowest and highest fiscal capacity per capita, the ratio is 1:3.5. 1:3.5. Does this mean that in some parts of the country a resident of 3 and a half times more is worth or can profit from local self - government than in another part of the country? Expensive expenditures and expenditures per county again without City of Zagreb. Expenditure on employees, material expenditure, financial expenditure, subsidies, etc. But I only analyzed one position, and that's employee expenses. Compared to the total structure of the 12 billion revenues they had that year, on average local self-government spends 16% on employees, on average 16. But we also have counties that spend 18.6% or 18.4% of their income on employees such as Požega-slavonska or Krapina or Požega-slavonska and Sisak-moslavina or those who spend 11.5 or 12.5 of their expenditure on employees such as Međimurska or Krapina-Zagorska. When we re-analyze this data on the income and expenditure side, I'll only single out the following data. The county taxes per capita in 2005 in Lika-Senjska amounted to 3.6 kuna, Brod-Posaviska 24, in Vukovar-Srijemska 25 kuna. At the same time in Istarska 65 kuna, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska 46 and in Međimurska 46.1. This information speaks of how much part of Croatia uses its own capacity for development. And in the end, the expenses. Compensation for citizens and households spent in 2005. In Virovitica-Podravska County, 51 kuna, Osijek-Baranja 52 kuna, Vukovar-Srijemski 61 was given per citizen per head. Compensation for citizens and households. At the same time, we have that Istria can single out 212 kuna per capita, Ličko-senjska 209 and Primorje-goranska 185 kuna. I want to believe that this kind of analysis and reading of this data will be done at the Ministry of Finance and we finally commit to the local self-government that by changing the tax system we do not have the right to support the tax system that brings state 1:3.5.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84448	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84449	Did that time pass, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84451	Then we'll get back to you in an individual final hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84452	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84453	Mr. President, Mrs. Krasic, the distinguished gentlemen of the council! This reporting period refers to the period in question. The offices carry out 484 audits of public authorities with 141 billion 459 million 579 thousand 231 kuna. The audit covered the state budget and twenty-nine budget users, meaning ministries, institutions, 308 units of local self-government i.e. Countys, cities and municipalities, 54 companies owned by state and local self-government, 19 centres for social care, 18 museums, 5 public fire stations, 43 other library entities, student homes, etc. It's been audited. Well, first review. The song would say, "It's a waste of your effort to play," 'cause nothing's gonna happen to anyone. Maybe to someone in Istria even to where they obviously apply "different laws" but elsewhere nothing to anyone. In Fažana, criminal charges are filed against the Commissioner for construction of a parking lot without authorisation. ... It's not smart, but I'd like to know a similar example elsewhere in the country. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Secondly, this report is the most fierce criticism of what Mr. Lesar spoke about absurd centralization and is de facto a debate, so I am experiencing this report, on the implementation of the budget rather than the classical audit, because this kind of audit is hiding more from the other side than revealing unless it has given itself the effort to especially revise certain business entities from above, such as Croatian radio and television, so it would probably result in the leadership of the house rather than the state service, diplomacy. But if so for the period 2003-2004 what to say then for the earlier business in that house when it was worse and not better. On the other hand, however, it does not need to be planted as in some media that, for example, 704 million kunas for the purchase of goods are used against the law. It just doesn't stand in this report how I experienced it. 5.3 million kunas for wardrobe are spent, contrary to Law 9.9 million kuna given to some loans for the purchase of apartments, which are of no importance now, but I'll talk about companies later because that's what this report is about. The ministries, not counting on this Croatian Health Insurance Institute, this is the case about themselves afterwards, are a sweet mother because ministers have been thrown out to the public and to the public, but public companies have somehow become states in the state, boasting, all-powerful financiers through public works, and I will tell individuals in power or parties wherever the government behaves, money launderers. Directors raise millions of kunas not only of severance but also of commissions and we deal with ourselves whether lunch at a 2 dcl restaurant is 40 kuna and why it is no longer as if it were in other, say, state-owned companies, railways, post office etc. Less with the fact that when those hundreds of first people were in railways, the mail, the electricity industry wanted to go to lunch, then it clearly makes the cards that are on those companies as long as the MPs paid out of their pocket and so be it. The same goes for local self-government. This report I'd say cuts with the legal audit report and that's the State Commission for Public Procurement Control. This report was a real revision for me, and this revision is a material for reviewing the implementation of the state budget. Why are those two reports hairing? Because the Commission for Public Procurement Control, which we talked about seven or eight days ago, says that through the procurement of trades for 26 billion and 85 million kunas of which 15 billion kuna goes for services, 4,100 million kunas go for the purchase of goods, in fact for the purchase of goods, the circus goes for 6 billion 900 million kunas, and the Commission itself finds that 5 billion 857 million kunas have been challenged. The Commission has annulled 50% of these tenders, which will say that we have a serious problem every fifth, sixth public tender, which is in some way pre-defined or set up and this revision does not speak or speak only in clues. It may not be her job, but it has to be determined. I'll do it again before I talk about the preliminary audit analysis. Croatia's main problem is becoming public enterprises. On the side that auditors haven't gotten into some of those companies since '98. or never but there is a huge amount of money without any supervision and how the supervisory boards work best paints the case, I don't know, Brodosplita, Croatia Insurance and what if the revision had just entered other shipyards, Croatian hardware, other state-owned companies or municipal and so on. You've audited nine companies. Croatia Airlines, Croatian Elektroprivreda, HRT, Croatian Post Offices, Railways, National Newspapers, Transmitters and Links, etc. Only those 9 companies had 16 billion kuna in 2003. In 2004 with 17 billion 677 million kuna. In 2006, I guess close to 20 billion kunas if their incomes rise by 6.7% and 8%. For example, Croatia's electricity industry achieved 8.5 billion kuna in 2004. Croatian railways 3.8 billion kuna, Croatian mail billion 445 million kuna and so on. Who's dealt with them so far? Almost no one. Now how's it all turned out to be an INA whose stock today is worth 2.8 times more than when it's sold to MOL? Where are some other companies? Croatian railways must pay EUR 817 000 due to unused two billion kuna according to plans, investments and projects for modernisation and reconstruction. Health checks spent 8.1 million kunas past the collective agreement but that's less important. Let them be for those purposes, but 252 million kuna goes for some shoot, education, battery management, I don't know what that is? It went against the public competition. The national newspapers printed 76.5 million kunas against the public competition. Croatian computer maintenance posts have abused 10.3 million kunas and so on. Then what are we doing? We are revising a clear local self-government. And that's okay. But is it more opportunistic, for example, to revise the business of the municipality of Lanisce with 400 inhabitants or large public companies that have hundreds of millions of kuna? And that's where we come to be. The state budget for 2005 was set at 102 billion 432 million kuna. Local self-government means plus those 20 counties outside the city of Zagreb 12.6 billion kuna. The city of Zagreb is 5.5 billion kuna. A total of 18 billion kuna. Of these 12.5 billion kuna on 20 Croatian counties, two billion 682 million kuna fell. On 123 cities 6 billion 878 million kunas. On 426 municipalities of two billion 770 million kuna or on average, one county had 134 million or 18 million euro and literally nothing. That would mean the average. There are clear counties in nature that do not even have 100 million kunas and some have 300 million kunas but that has to change. It is absurd because there is no more centralised country than Croatia. On page 15, the proceeds and receipts of the budget from 1996 to 2005 were cut short. So, with $34.1 billion in 1996, we came to 103 billion in kuna in 2005, or these revenues increased by 3.02 times as the local self-government budgets grew by 2.6 times, the City of Zagreb by 2.5 times. What was I supposed to do? Let's say the state budget grows 2.6 times, and local self-government is 3.02 times, so this one, and instead of 18 billion kuna, would increase by 15 billion kuna to 33 billion kuna. That would be a quarter of that public money, and there would already be some kind of decentralisation because it would have had 25% of the revenue achieved. Finally, why don't you say so? When was Croatia fastest developed? It was developed by the 1974 Constitution. And it's no nostalgia. The municipalities then had a 60% fiscal capacity. They chose the head of the court and the chief of police and the head of the cadastra and the head of finance and the head of the national defence and the head of territorial defense, and today they cannot or can't local self-government affect the behaviour of the matrimonials because he is a state rather than a local official. Otherwise, from 426 municipalities of 315 or 73.9% have budgets of up to 5 million kuna. And now what are we talking about? There are either too many municipalities or coins are misaligned or some municipalities simply have no conditions for survival. A special story is getting drugs without a public competition. It's supposed to be two billion 815 million kunas. I'm reading today's interview with this head of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute that says that if it went to a public tender, all these drugs would be 20% more expensive. The Croatian Health Insurance Office is a case for itself. By price, to the entire health system, I'd say you're even sending bad messages, but let's let it go now that it's, I'm not going to talk about it. But even worse, the debt for drugs these months has reached two and a half billion kuna, and the deadline for the prescription drug has risen to 260 days. Such a crisis within the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has not been recorded for the last 8 years. And in the end, it looks like the country's deficit is going to be smaller, but it's just going to give in to the new government, I'd almost say a bankrupt health fund. I am personally pleased that income per capita is not counting the City of Zagreb slightly higher in the County of Istria than elsewhere. Second place in Dubrovnik-Neretva County and Primorje-Goran County, but indeed what to say about a Brod-Posavina County with 1095 kuna which, ma brother to brother 6 or 7 times less than the City of Zagreb has. Five and a half times, six times smaller than Istrian County. Or Virovitica-Poravska with 1119 kuna. While the Croatian average is 1752 kuna, the point is once again to say in decentralisation with clear help weaker because I don't see, for example, why should the state deal with everything and everything, but then we should clearly stop putting pressure on the central government when business entities are based and so on and so on. What's particularly interesting is the Peace Fund. 629 thousand 770 pensioners receive a pension under 2000 kuna. The difference between the new old pensioners in 2004 was 430 kuna, 2005. 495 kuna, 2006 is already 531 kuna. The new ones are getting more and more retired logically. The old ones are getting smaller and smaller. In 2004, there were 280 thousand new ones, now 352,000. The old ones were in 2004. Seven hundred and forty-two thousand. Now it's 690 grand. How to equalize those pensions? I only claim one way – new jobs. I'm also saying this in the context of the fact that the audit and the fact that revenue is also being made in 15 billion kunas, and we need it annually for the distribution of 27 billion kunas. But we need to find another 2 and a half to 3 billion kuna and clearly do it. Old and new should be equalized. This is possible, but the growth of pensions will depend solely on jobs the next day, and therefore clearly not every investment that comes into Croatia should be obstructed. And for the end. Several non-profit associations have been audited. It's just that if someone were to audit the parties or NGOs, you'd eat it both for us and for them. We'd be just like the others. And this is how we judge others, clearly verbally, and ultimately no one in this country will do anything unless someone throws a dot at someone. Why would in a country that is only through conversion to all ages and centuries be delegated to be able to do a fair job. He can treat others, but not those who have clearly acquired the entire national wealth. Unfortunately, nothing since the revision of the conversion, nothing on the Revision Act. It won't even be there in 2008 as it is now announced. If this power takes over Croatia as it was not in 2004 either. The report clearly needs to be accepted, but it does little to achieve in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84454	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84455	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer to Article 63 or 209 respectively. Since I read the National Security and Internal Policy Reports this morning, I have to react. These two reports are not accurate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84456	And what kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure? Which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84457	Well, because we got something on the bench that doesn't match the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84458	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84459	No, but what is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84460	Don't!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84461	No, Article 63, which regulates the work of the board, writes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84462	Ma colleague Lucin, Article 63, speaks of what the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security is part of. Well, that's the topic of the debate. If something isn't true in those reports, that's the topic of the debate. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84463	No matter what, I wouldn't react right now, but since the board president hasn't read the report, I have to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84464	It's not a duty, so it didn't come to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84465	Let me just say two sentences!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84466	But it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84467	Here's how it's not an injury. Now we've got a covert report from the Foreign Ministry...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84468	Comrade Lucin, please, with all democracy please be kind not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You can't, I can't, I'm afraid I can't let you do this! The time will come for that. You can't go on behalf of the club now. Well, you can't say now, so it's not foreseen. That's not supposed to happen. He can't take five minutes off. For what? Explain. What would it be for?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84469	We've received an incorrect report from the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84470	Well, it's a committee debate. It's not a debate at a plenary session. You'll pass on that. What you're about to achieve now is that, I need to give you a break if you're looking for it on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84471	But let me warn you of two things that matter to me. Then take five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84472	I can't give you a five-minute break, but I'll explain to you if the club asks you why, if you want a break, why you want it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84473	Let us take note of the report of the Committee on National Policy and, internal policy and national security that we received on the benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84474	The flat cannot be given for certain events and events on boards. There's no break in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84475	Give me your word. We could've done it by now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84476	I can't give you a break, because it's not according to the Rules of Procedure. I can't give you my word. That's what you'll give in the debate. Let's move on. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Frano Matušić. We've got corrections on incorrect allegations, so we'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84477	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Cain made incorrect allegations on several occasions. First of all, he said it was about God's review. It's not about any god-awful audit, colleague Cain. It is about the State Audit Report whose work I truly believe most MPs appreciate, and in that sense I ask that you no longer refer such statements to those who have worked hard to really spot any failures in the work of the state institutions. Second. You said there was no more centralised country than Croatia. My colleague Cain, it seems we don't live in the same country or on the same planet. And the third thing you said was that the municipalities of the 1970s were elected by police chiefs, etc. And those of you who cause dark times didn't then choose the municipalities. That's when the heads of the party and the heads of the communist party were elected by both the judges and all the officials you listed. So this calling for dark totalitarian, communist times is really no longer necessary in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84478	How many in your ranks are the bosses?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84479	Second correction by the honourable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84480	Dear colleague Cain, wishing to show the blackest situation in Croatia, incorrectly said the following. The Public Procurement Commission has annulled every fifth or sixth public tender, which means that in so many cases there have been competitions, which means several billion kunas, so that everything will be disgusted by this people. That's not true, of course. The largest number of public procurement cancellations is not due to billions of kunas, but due to administrative errors, due to mislisted pages, due to the lack of BON one or BON two, because no certificate has been translated, etc. Therefore, these are the reasons for the cancellation of the largest number of tenders, and the exact report we have here at Mrs. Šima Krasic's where exactly how many irregularities there have been. And the second thing that's true, what he said incorrectly is that HZZO has had the worst score in the last eight years because of the debts I can't elaborate because of the time. I see a red mountain, it burns red. That's not true. Today HZZO has a better situation than ever, and with the use of Table A and B medications in a year will pay everything within the legal deadlines, and now it pays within the same deadlines as it did a year ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84481	Third correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84482	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Caine who said he says nothing of the revision of conversion and privatisation is incorrect. The State audit, i.e. audited in 1556 cases, identified 1481 cases of illegality, or 95.17%, respectively. Therefore, none of the sanctions for the established fact that the Croatian Parliament has committed both the Government and the Croatian Privatisation Fund and all the competent ones. That's the problem. The audit's doing its part, but the other authorities aren't doing anything. And this looks just like me last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84483	And a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84484	counterpart Cain argued that Croatia, that Croatia had been delegated, that there was anything fair to be done in it. Despite the fact that I can share an opinion on what the situation is. But it's not true that it's not possible to do anything. In fact, it's possible and necessary, you just need to know and want. And in this way, we only create an alibi for apathy to create an alibi, and I say that it is not possible in Croatia to be fairer and fairer. As far as this is concerned, when I'm already here and I'm up. And on behalf of the club, I'm looking for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84485	Correction. You have a correction to an incorrect quote. That, first of all, ends with a correction. Who's asking on behalf of the club now? A colleague of Linic or a colleague of Antičević's? Who is it? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84486	Mr. President, on behalf of the club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes. The reason why I'm looking for a break is the ambiguity of how we're discussing the materials that have been declared "official secret". ... There's no secret off. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's proposed to take the secret, and we don't have a decision. Therefore, part of the SDP advocate wants to talk and talk about these reports. There's a vague question, since we haven't solved the problem we're looking for a club break so we can work out how we're going to perform. Or if you have a solution to that problem, we'd be happy to accept it without a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84487	So that's the thing, what my colleague Lucin went through with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is true that, on the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security on the Reports of the State Audit Office, a special part, should have been removed from the designation "official secret". There was no quorum. I couldn't put it on the vote to take it off because there was no quorum. He's gone now, he's gone now. He's gone now, isn't he? And you want to discuss it, and then we should take down the "office secrets." Because that's the way it is, then we'll take a break to get the quorum together. To collect the quorum. Because there's no one else. Because otherwise there's no pause. You know, according to the Rules of Procedure, that for reasons related to the work of the Parliament's working bodies, you do not approve of a break. ... I understand that, I understand that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll give Stanko first to establish the quorum and that this decision can be made and vote on the removal of the mark: "official secret". 15 minutes off. And I ask the MPs and the MPs to gather in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84488	Ladies and gentlemen, it's been 15 minutes. There is no quorum that could be voted on removing the "official secrets" mark from a special section under the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. We're going to interrupt the debate on that point.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84489	Let's try to vote on a proposal from the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security to remove the designation "official secret" from the special section. Are you in? Thank you. Against? No abstentions. I find that the designation "official secret" has been removed, and then we return to the debate on this part, on the revision. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Zeljko Pecek. He's gone. The club loses its word. SDP counseling club. Will someone on behalf of the club please? He won't. Well, then there's no club. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic on behalf of the HSP Club. There isn't. It's a two-part Shime of the Wretch on behalf of the HDZ Club and Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84490	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, the State Audit find does not contain enough of some unwanted information for the situation in our society, so obviously for this today it is related to this subject and therefore I would like to say in the introduction, and I would like to repeat in the introduction what Mrs. State Auditor Mrs. Krasic said, that the State Audition is acting under the existing laws and that it also forwards its findings according to existing laws to the authorities in the country. This is all that can be done, but in no way is it and cannot be created according to the wishes of individuals, and it is obvious that such a report does not fit. So I would like very briefly to remind you of some of the basic information that this report brings to us. First, it was done for 2005. We could also wish for why not for 2006 but it was done for 2005 and contains those elements which were established in that year by the state budget and by 29 users of the state budget in the first part. Three main areas to which this finding relates during this period. It's an area, it'll escape my time, it's an area of accounting, planning and public procurement. In accounting, we see that it is important, and obviously for three reasons, it improves the situation. The first reason that for years, according to the IAS International Standard, as it is said, or the IAS translated, we have already been stalking each other. Secondly, the revision obviously at these years has also yielded results and a third area, the third reason we see it is the gradual introduction of internal control, i.e. internal audit. These are three reasons why the situation in this area is significantly better than it's ever been before. Second, in the planning process and in the procurement process. The problem of planning remains mild deviations from planning, but there are countless reasons why it can be cited very quickly and it is fundamentally important that the plans in the state budget and the use of state resources in the state budget are planned in the context of the intended means by which the mild deviations are possible especially in public procurement because they have already specialised in complaints, and in this procedure, public procurement procedures often take six months, on average, from the time of the call for tenders and others, so I say that some have already specialized in the mystery percentage. I'll complain. Otherwise, give me a piece of the job or anything else. So I think that this is one of the reasons, or according to the report, one of the reasons why this particular area is being over-planned or not planning or planning some of the revenue in that year is not taking advantage of that part of the funds. In the control, or planning of own resources, some of the users of the state budget still have their own incomes and there are slight deviations in this by taking a deep faith in this last time. Because this year 2005 was introduced for the first time since the Croatian State's draft state Treasury. This is the answer to all the abuses that have been possible so far and for the first time since all governments have failed to introduce this state treasure finally introduces order in the availability and spending of state and budgetary resources. Why? Before each ministry had dozens of bills and sub-accounts at different banks, so we regularly went to say in the same ministry of funds by sight or by what is said they lie on the bank without interest, and the same ministry for other needs is owed by regular bank interest and therefore pays interest and is available to say non-transparently to state resources, let alone when everything is summed up at the state level, we had a mess that we could only comment on but we couldn't have a significant impact on it. That's why the State Audit find first found this. Therefore, the State Treasury was introduced. We still have some slight transitions in 2006 to close accounts and transfer funds to the State Treasury. And the last report when the next one is drawn up in 2006 will be completely cleared from all accounts on individual users. Furthermore, in terms of expenditure and expenditure, we can comment on the fact that it is mostly minor to miss that there are no more major abuses or failures in such funds. In the case of material expenditure, the main point of view is that expenditure has not been identified as significant irregularities. So one sentence is that we consider this finding favourable. And in others, as a continuation of the use of their own income to individual users, the earlier process continued, I would say mild abuses especially in the correction of wages in some of these users, which will end with the end of the transfer to the Treasury. Thus, we also believe that a complete order has finally been introduced in this area. There are certain gaps in the transfer of funds, i.e. in transfers, which are often not technically possible to monitor the control and purpose of spending on the sector. And a certain doubt is being raised, and we also heard this morning the reason why we're taking down the problem of removing the secrecy of this data. Still, no one asks the question of secrecy and certain expenditures that are secret but actually asks the question of how to determine this secrecy, either by rules or by any act that we can know in advance that we are not going to have food items, for example in the military or by some similar being still a state secret. But that's what we intend to hold deep and we're confident it's already happening right from these failures. Finally, when it comes to the state budget and all users 29, it seems to me, unconditionally 14 opinions, conditional on 16 there are no other unfavourable opinions. And with these parolees, it's all about soft spot. Therefore, it is quite clear when it comes to the state budget and all the users financed from that state budget that we can be completely satisfied with these findings. I say in one word on behalf of the HDZ Club that this is the best finding ever since the audit has done its work in the field of using the state budget and other users using that state budget. There's something similar about local self-government units. By asking the question of the collection of income, he says that sometimes income is made to you or not to care enough about the collection of those incomes. However, I objectively think it is two groups, especially incomes, of common incomes, where it is difficult to keep payment. Other depreciated, such as concessions and other forms of income in which one part of the control of these revenues is carried out by the tax administration for all users of these revenues. And that's where certain problems arise. So they don't have the instruments that the local unit can control their own incomes now. Well, I'm guessing that's not about abuse either, but we'll discuss it later. Therefore, the only thing in this area is a large group of problems that are being followed, and this is also about public procurement, and in income, these are in the municipal sector in the planning and deployment of these funds. Other findings are neat, and I would say one sentence, and read the Review's view, found that at the state level, the number of subjects with unconditional opinion was increased, at the local level reduced with unfavourable opinions. Therefore, both at one level and at the other level and for all third users of public companies and others there are significant improvements in the situation. Here, the club accepts such a report with pleasure. And with regret, perhaps once again, there was not enough reason for controversy and contention. So since this morning, the relationship to this wheel has been like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84491	Thank you. In the second part, the respected representative of Andrija Hebrang on behalf of the HDZ representative club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84492	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the honored representatives of the State Audit. Since Shime praised the State Audit, then I'll skip that part, I agree with him. What this year's report shows is that state users and users of the state budget are unconditional opinions more often than before. The unconditional opinions are most often in 46% of the analyzed entities have been obtained unconditionally meaning passing evaluation, and the unfavourable ones are not being analysed by the subjects, which means that the discipline of spending on the state budget is actually being corrected and that the State audit is coming at great times in the development of our country. Because as you know, the budget has grown over the last 10 years three times and if there were no State Auditors, anything would have happened. And now a few words about the biggest complaints, and that's health care. Namely, one of the biggest objections is the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Between 2004 and 2005, we can see a significant improvement in its business, especially in the area of planned revenue and revenue, as well as in planned and achieved expenditures. Namely, at the realized and planned expenditures in 2004, HZZO achieved as much as 7.6% more than planned. This year, in 2005, when the percentage we are discussing was halved and is 4.2%. So planning in HZZO is the planning with the highest paragraph of the state budget is extremely improving. The total HZZO obligations, unlike the stories we hear now in the media, are also a reduction, with a commitment of 798 million at 2005 level. Well, then the stories of the system collapse are absolutely falling off. What should be pointed out is that the request from hospitals has also been reduced from 250 to about 50 million kunas because hospitals have started to carry out their contractual obligations because of a better organisation. What does that mean? In 2004, Croatian hospitals failed to perform obligations towards HZZO, contractual obligations, so they failed to perform services worth 250 million kuna. The government has forgiven these claims from hospitals because it would have led them to collapse. And this year, it is true that these claims have been reduced to 50 million and are indeed related to those hospitals which, for objective reasons, cannot fulfil their obligations, are the hospital in Knin, Pakrac, the hospital in Vukovar, etc. In the HZZO business, there is also an improvement in the creation of reserves for supplementary insurance. These reserves, which were not reached this year in the previous report. And we come up with the most painful item, these are drugs, for 2 billion, about 800 million kunas, no public procurement has been made. I'll repeat why it wasn't done. Because HZZO works under the Law on Medicinal Products and the Regulation to determine the price of medicinal products that, like lex specialis and the regulation of that law, have set out price negotiations rather than public procurement. And simple legislation is not in line with the Public Procurement Act, and it should definitely be done this year so that this story that draws roots back to 2000 and earlier years should no longer be repeated. Why can't you go public with drugs? Because every year we have to bid about 2,000 medications, and each one comes at 7 to 8 doses. So that's 14 to 15 thousand individual bids. That's what we tried in 1993, it ended with a fiasco because the suppliers agreed, all the prices were equal. Then we could only sign with one who gave some better conditions, and this one supplier cannot guarantee the supply of the Croatian drug market for 365 days. So everyone else would atrophy, they would all go bankrupt because they didn't get a contract with the state, and this one that got could not make such a purchase for all the population and therefore nowhere in Europe, there is no public procurement of medicines in the European Union. In the end, I'm going to go ahead with the red light, two words about the Ministry of Health. To our great pride, the Ministry of Health received an unconditional opinion in 2004 and here is an unconditional opinion for 2005 without any objections. Why am I pointing that out? Because there are no objections or findings about a negative phenomenon in the public procurement of the Ministry of Health, and let's remember the "simacu" affair that was born at that very age. This is the third proof that the "simacu" affair is political and furnished, as so far, the Public Procurement Office has said in its report that there is no irregularities, the state audit said, and there is a court dispute. So it's a political affair that has revealed its authors this time. If this review finding isn't enough, we can look for some more revisions, perhaps international, and then ask that the creators of the affair turn red this time not because of their ideology but because of shame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84493	Thank you. For PGS, SBH and NDS, respected representative Željko Pavlic. He's gone. The club loses its word. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. We're going to an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84494	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So it has already been common that every time the State Audit comes here with its report, then every debate on that report begins, should begin and must begin with the praises of the State Audit. Ms. Šima Krasić and her valuable crew have been doing this responsible and complex work the best possible way for years. This certainly enables better control of the spending of tax money when we know that those who audit these entities do so responsibly, professionally and honestly. It can certainly look forward to the increase in the number of unconditional opinions for state budget users compared to the previous period. We have already learned that since the state audit was actually established, year by year in each report, it is a rule that the situation is being corrected, that the situation is getting better from year to year, that the laws are getting more and more respected, that irregularities are getting less and less. Unfortunately, often the State Audit or almost equally so if it generally establishes that those who break regulations, who do not deserve a completely unconditional opinion, are generally the same and repeat the same mistakes that the revision warns them of year after year. It is now looking forward to the fact that the discipline in the state is being strengthened, certainly and because of the state audit, and I would dare say the fears of those who are falling for the state review, that they will come into this report in a negative context, and that they will then be discussed here as those who do not know or do not want to respect the law. We are now getting used to this report for 2005, and we are already getting a little used to it, that we are always discussing the situation from two years ago. I know a review can't be done right after the end of some calendar year, but this is still a bit of last year's snow. Mr. Andrija Hebrang and, now speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, we are talking about the good functioning of the health system or HZZO, because this is reflected in this 2005 report, and we are reading in the newspaper Mr. Kuštrak's statements on how now, the debts for medicinal products to suppliers are being extended to how many hundreds of days, over a year and how much more so comes into question from the bottom of the supply of medicines in the Croatian health system. Perhaps in two years, not us, but a new assembly of parliaments, we will discuss the State Audit report. This is what cannot be rejoiced here, because we cannot react as Parliament on such reports to the situation which currently exists in Croatia and which is, for example, when it comes to health care, it seems critical, and yet when Mr Hebrang says he is satisfied with the findings of the health audit for 2005, we cannot say that he is speaking incorrectly. She speaks exactly because that's what it says here, but that's how it was. It was 2005, and now it's terrible. So when we take for example. One ministry, now we've just removed the official secret from that document, say the Ministry of the Interior. Then we can see that the review is estimating that those in charge of keeping the law don't respect those laws. It hurts especially if I don't know the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of the Interior doesn't respect the law. Okay, the finance department got a full pass-by here, that's fine. But watch what they say about the Home Office. Veli's expenses amounting to 42 million and 300 thousand kunas not planned. Well, then that's one piece of information. And then another piece of information that they got some kind of 9 million kuna plates without public procurement. Now, on page 13 where the review warrants for 2004 found that the ministry did the same in 2004 and that the review warned them. They were warned in 2004, and findings against which the procedures for obtaining license plates were not a problem. It means someone keeps repeating the same thing. In a description of the ministry, or in the explanation of the Ministry of the Interior, it writes to the public procurement regulation referred to in December 2004 a request for the issue of prior consent to a direct contract which was rejected. The D.O.D. made a request, the office turned it down. Obviously, the request was not established, because why else would the Public Procurement Office refuse the interior ministry's request if it had been established? This was the case in December 2004, and again, in February 2005, a request was sent to the Public Procurement Office for the prior consent of a direct contract which was re-refused. And what did the ministry do after the Public Procurement Office rejected them twice in their request? Bought plates without a public tender. They completely ignored the fact that the Public Procurement Office refused them, completely ignored the fact that the State Audit had warned and violated the law a year before. I can't say in ignorance, I can't justify myself by ignorance because they obviously sent a request to the office, they knew they needed the approval, and yet they went into the supply and without approval and that they were rejected twice. Well, that's the kind of thing they have to worry about. These things have to be concerned because if they happen at the Ministry of the Interior whose inspectors have to find out in other cases whether they are breaking the law and filing criminal charges, they're going to start some sort of procedure, so if they're doing so in that ministry, then the country's thing is not good, and this ministry would have to be perfect. Perfect. When we're going to do it again, I've already talked here once about these famous analog cameras NIKONF80, 7 thousand kunas cost each. No public procurement was obtained this year. I haven't heard the minister's testimony yet. We ask parliamentary questions, he answers me some general sentences, something that man doesn't ask him at all. It's a public attitude when someone buys I don't know how many analogue cameras without an lens that's worth nothing. They're empty in someone's warehouses, someone's been favored, and now that a man's asked him why you did it, can you justify that anything he doesn't get an answer, then they change and punish those inside the system who warn them of such mistakes. We will discuss these NIKONF80 cameras, not us, I repeat some new assembly of the Parliament in 2009 or 2010. I already said today it will be forgotten then that the Minister of the Interior was Mr. Kirin, he will forget himself in two years, if, of course, his appearance on the portals makes him unforgettable, and I dare say immortal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84495	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations and one replica. First, a respected representative of Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84496	Thank you. counterpart Stazic said that according to some statements from the health representatives, the state of health is critical. That's not true. Status isn't critical, I'd say the condition is common. Health debts, i.e. debts towards suppliers, are moving in relation to the way they were a few years ago, so total liabilities move at a level below 4 billion, and I would remind myself of the total commitments in 2004 were 7 billion. Therefore, the system has been put under control and it is not true that the situation is critical.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84497	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84498	Thank you very much. A respected colleague said that Mr. Kushtrak, therefore a representative of the great drug industry, is saying that a collapse in the supply of drugs is coming, etc. and that this report does not refer to the current situation but to the 2005 report. I remind you, Mr. Kuštrak said this in both 2005 and 2004 and 2003 because he is a representative of the drug dealer lobby, and our task is not to organise a system of drug sellers, but a system of supply to our patients. The system is stable and there will be no collapse to Mr. Kuštrak because besides his grand drugstore, we have 50 others to jump in. And another thing I'd like to say is, they were buying cameras without lens because they already had lenses, so they were buying cameras, so they wouldn't have turned out to be buying half machines. And thirdly, they were bought without public procurement because the price was below 200 thousand kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84499	Thank you. Third Amendment, representative of Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84500	Thank you, Mr. President. Although my colleagues have already corrected a part of this, I would still like to say that my colleague said that the state of health is critical, which is absolutely not. The situation is stable and common and we can say for sure that debt means no longer increasing than being kept at the same level or being reduced with a number of positive shifts in health, a series of positive shifts. I'd just say one, let's say that especially expensive drugs, and we know how much difficulty and trauma there was in getting these expensive drugs, that they're now out of the hospital's budget, and that 200 million kunas have been allocated for this, that the first time they're paying for a traineeship and for a high, high and medium professional training and a series of other positive shifts. Therefore, the state of health is not critical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84501	The fourth amendment, honourable representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84502	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleagues, Stazic, where he claimed that in 2005, the purchase of license plates for the MUP was made, and so was the following year that they sought again. Well it's not true, but it's true that all the time since there's a MUP the same way it's supplied with license plates and during your Lucin, as well as during all previous ministers. It's a fact and a truth that needs to be changed and changed. It's true that it's going to change the way you get it, but all the time and it pulls away one and the same problem that doesn't matter and it doesn't matter as much as your carpets.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84503	Replica, distinguished representative Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84504	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I deliberately answered the line to explain my colleague, Stazic. He could have asked his ex, his minister, and he would have explained to him the same thing, that only in late 2004 did another tiles producer appear. And we're the first to run public procurement at all. However, since public procurement lasts more than six months and people need tiles every day, we couldn't help but look for an extension of the contract and ask for an extension that of this same producer so long as we don't get a better public procurement provider, we don't have to get tiles. That was the only reason, and we couldn't get anything else because it was daily goods. We couldn't get it any other way. And because the public procurement procedure was launched, we asked the Public Procurement Office to grant us a direct contract. He didn't. But since we had to get the tiles, we had to buy them. It's the same with cameras. You see, lenses are the only value. The camera is expendable and it's bought really worth less than 200 thousand kuna and everyone knows I'm the best at crime. The police of the world are buying just analog machines because it's a picture, it's got to be, it's not a digital device, it's just those who can be framed to take pictures, if you've consulted any crime. A cop he'd tell you if it was the right thing to do. The most expensive part of this apparatus is precisely an lens and therefore such an observation is inappropriate or out of ignorance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84505	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84506	Well, my colleague Mlinarich, I don't know much about digital and analogue cameras. So, I'm just out of crime. A cop heard what I'm saying. That cop you're in the system because he warns about the system irregularities you've demoted and cut his salary. Which is why he's also talking to the attorney general. Which is why he's doing it in court. But also who warns me that you've got cameras without lenses, and you don't have an lens. There's no lens. When you, you can talk that there is. You'll probably be asked about it by the press, and they'll probably come to your warehouse to show it to them. Well, as far as these records are concerned. Well, look, then you need to replace those in the Public Procurement Office because if your request was so logical, I don't know what they wouldn't let you do. If there's really no other way to get one. I am convinced that on repeated request they would approve of you. If you made a request so much that it's understandable, that it's logical, I don't see any reason not to allow it. But they still wouldn't let you do it twice, and that's what this report says. And you, despite the fact that they didn't allow you twice, got it through a direct contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84507	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84508	Dear Mr. President, Madam Chief State Auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues! Here goes the mandate and the third government and Mrs. Šima Krasic is at the head of a state audit and I think it is for every praise because she is saying that finally in this country, that there may be an institution in this country or what to call it, which in some way does not bother this political orientation, or this government or that government, even if their political premise has changed, which in any case is commendable because the implications mean that the audit works neutrally, objectively and in the way it should. So I'm also using this unusual opportunity to see, in a way, express my respect for the kind of work that is kind of valorized towards us all just by having that kind of continuity. I wish it was 2006, but it's 2005, so here it is. I'd just like to say something about the tax administration and what I could read in your report from which the tax administration is not a very frequent guest in some environments that are otherwise large taxpayers, so we should pay up to 50 million kuna a year. And as you yourself stated in the report, the deadline is about three years old, so it threatens an objective danger, since for years the tax administration has not shown up with such taxpayers, as I would call it, so they are simply forgiven. And yet, you see, we live in an environment where people will recognize a much weaker material status than we do, every day facing problems that they have to pay this or that bill of electricity, water, telephone, no matter what. And the normal thing if he doesn't pay, then the city, the state, it doesn't matter who is very effective in one kind of punishing these people, so it was either Croatian television. If you don't pay your subscription, it'll be quick to collect and we've had examples to see that some people end up in jail, doing their time in prison. So much of this tax administration situation that doesn't try to collect that kind of colloquial money from those who are in debt to the state, I don't think it's easy, and because it turns out that the old one, the one who's a lot of debt, the one who takes a lot of what's said, is the one who gets hurt at the latest. I think these observations of yours must end in some sort of conjecture by those who behave in this way and are in very responsible functions. According to your report last year, there was therefore a planned surveillance in 96 large taxpayers of 206, and in practice there were only 43 taxpayers. You also stated that the tax administration headed by Mr. Ivica Mladineov has tasked taxpayers with 86 million kuna, with contributions of 73%. So it's about sums of 20 million kunas and more, etc. And indeed it becomes questionable whether there is sufficient justification for what they have given you and which you state about a small number of inspectors so that they cannot carry out those obligations that are in their jurisdiction, the description of their work, their work. I'd like to mention it now because I asked Minister Shuker about it. The answer I got wasn't satisfactory for me, it was the replacement of all the department chiefs in the Split Tax Administration except one. The answer was that it came because they did not meet some legal conditions and what I know and what people delivered was not really about it. These are the people who are based on the contests how so are they... The work that de facto did on Pliva's recommendation came and performed through the contests of the choice of these people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, ten heads of the Tax Administration branch in Split-Dalmatia County six were replaced by ten department heads, eight and two left. And now normally I wonder if maybe there's been some really human imbalances, I don't know what, I don't know why. I must confess to you the truth is that among those who were removed from the head of the Split Tax Administration was the lady who spoke to her. She's a member of the HDZ, I guess, too. I unfortunately have to be here right now, I can't think of anything else, so I started out with how glad I am that there's something that goes beyond all ideologies, politics, etc. If it's professionally done, that's probably how it should be in the tax administration. She made progress during the time of here's former government, based on that contest done by those herkanters from Pliva, it's a group of psychologists, and she's been replaced, and she's protested even publicly to me. But I would really like to mention a drastic example in the end. It is an anonymous, fictional name Ivan Trpimirovic, which has been verified for not being present. Therefore, the letter to the tax administration on which the tax administration reacted within two days, received 27.1.2004, 29.1.2004 Mr. Mladneo reacts and sends inspections to the Split Contex and Podgoratours company. The application reads, I will only read to you in part: "Dear gentlemen, I ask you nicely in the name of justice and the Most High Creator send an inspection to the company Contex", etc., the time of Communism, forgive me 3.1.2000 has passed... The last secretary of the party was brought to the conductor's bat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It brings people of Bolshevik communist orientations, drunks, anti-Croatians, Yugoslavs, members of the SRP, etc. Look, since she failed to privatize that bastard and his relatives should be replaced. A dictionary like this is unbearable to all of us. I mean, it can write for one side or the other, it doesn't matter at all. So there's no such thing as numerical or what, but they're ideological qualifications. But the fact is that, based on this, inspectors within two days, and that's what convinces the world record, and for Croatia it's probably the space record that inspectors are going to. And in these companies inspectors don't go, where they stay... Not because they're someone's not insinuating in that way at all, but they're not doing the job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that is why this report is inspiringly good for me and commendable that it is objective and I state one example that speaks of that unfortunately for a long time in Croatia and ideological disqualifications of any kind will be directed at this or that side and some state services to react that are otherwise not responding in their regular work where they should work. That's it. And I think this is an eclectic and shameful example.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84509	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84510	Dear Mr. Vice President, the respected state's chief auditor with the associates! What do you say about these three reports? I think it's as short as possible to say, "It's all the same as last year." ... It's all the same as last year. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Why do I say that? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Wait a minute, when I'm done, you answer it. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84511	Just a second. I didn't see that. You could have just picked it up when I gave the word to Agent Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84512	Everything is the same as last year, so the state audit is doing its tasks neatly, determining the actual state of play, finding the problem but the problem is that the users of the state budget are not talking about the users of municipal, urban budgets and these other entities that have been subject to the supervision of the state audit are not learning from mistakes and the worst is that it is obvious that only the characters are changing. Namely, instead of Ivica now Ivo, instead of one God is now another Bozo, instead of Bozidar the other is Bozidar but it is obvious that this system is if the system of public procurement can deliberately hollow it that neither Ivo nor Ivica nor Bozidar nor Bozo will change it because they all use the part that allows public procurement to pass the legal regulations. And why is that? Because of the fact that we don't have effective sanctions. The worst one is the variant that we saw in the state audit findings for the revision of conversion and privatisation. Crystally established actual state, 95.17% found illegality of this form or that form. That's right here, but there's no responsibility. I'm not talking about legal responsibility to a criminal or anyone else right now. The offense can't even occur because there's always a statute of limitations, given when the audit is being supervised and there's always a statute of limitations and there's not even political responsibility. There is no political responsibility either, and let's just say take a recapitulation related to the number of warrants and recommendations. For example, in 2005, a total of 2,000 915 warrants and recommendations were issued. This included 163 warrants and recommendations issued by state budget users and these are others. And interestingly, it was carried out in 2005 by 2 thousand 915 thousand 676. So there's still a thousand 239 warrants left and a recommendation. And no one answered for that. And the audit said it's good because there's been an increase, it's about a little less than 60% that the warrant and the recommendation have been carried out. And watch miracles now? In 2006, a total of 3,000 140 warrants and recommendations were given. Of these, a thousand 467 were executed, so 46.7% were reduced and a thousand 673 warrants and recommendations were left unfulfilled. But it's particularly interesting that the users of the state budget mean they were given 93 orders, only 23.7%. So what does the government do to the users of the state budget? She's their boss. So if we don't start at least political responsibility. So this is about orders and recommendations on how and how to do business. How can we ask citizens to comply with the rules if they do not adhere to state budget users means a warrant and a recommendation for state audit, which is binding for them. So they act like they don't have it. Or what to say next, let's say the case of this review at the Department of Defense continues, year after year, to repeat the same situation. To this day, there is no complete list of assets. To this day, it has been found to continue to violate the procurement procedure. So here it is undisputedly found that the purchase of materials and parts for the ongoing investment maintenance of construction facilities worth more than 10 million was done without the public procurement process. Then the cleaning and washing services amounting to over 2 million. Maintenance and computer equipment services worth almost 2 million and additional investment on residential buildings worth over a million and 678 thousand kuna. That is exactly where it was found that it was done against the provisions of the law, and that I am not speaking now in this section where the State Audit in the Statement says it is questionable given the determination that some procurement is a secret. It means what we just said. If that information was taken, and the Ministry of Justice is always "There is no new law on the protection of secrecy". So if they have a law like this, then neither will these, and this will put under that part that's, that's secret procurement. Therefore, we can no longer be satisfied with the fact that only the state audit is carrying out its part of the job and that even the competent authorities, means that the users of the state budget are not acting on the orders and recommendations of the state audit. And this is a really scary fact that for 2006 it's only done in 23.7%. These are the users of the state budget. These are the same ones who, for example, carry out the exercise against Croatian citizens who did not pay or TV subscription or who did not pay for one supplementary insurance war in 2002. Speaking, let's say the pensioner sends people that he stayed 10 kunas in 2002 and then grows. Look, this is how they treat citizens and this is how they treat taxpayers' funds. So unless measures are taken, first of all, the adoption of a new Public Procurement Act where such manipulations can no longer be done to play the systematic Public Procurement Act. I hope that we will also pass the Privacy Act without talking about the part that the revision cannot always enter into individual, individual users of the state budget when it comes to so-called. large capital investments to deliberately deplete major projects. So, on purpose, major projects are being subdued into smaller projects so that the application of the Public Procurement Act is excluded again. Therefore, it is not good when the beneficiary of the state budget has a conditional assessment. That's not good. Because he represents the state. He represents the government. As such, he must be an example to a Croatian citizen. And do not give a false example that he who is to apply and enforce the regulations, and many of these regulations themselves have proposed to the Croatian Parliament, or through the Croatian Government, and do not implement it. So we can't stay on getting just hardworking, hand-delivered State Audit reports and then it'll all be a dead letter on paper. Because see what it's worth to send to the State's Attorney's office when it comes to illegalities that as such do not have the mark of being a criminal offence. They have the mark of a misdemeanor, but when it comes to the state's attorney's office, there's already been a misdemeanor. We must therefore clearly see what we do and what changes we make in the Penal Code, and if anything else starts to solve the issue of political responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84513	Thank you. It's a replica, isn't it? Replica is the esteemed deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84514	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would actually like to join this revolution, and if I may say so to fellow Kovacevic's appeal. Because I think the situation is even worse than you described. Namely, if only a revision of the State budget is taken, then they'll see it one day. That the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not bring more than 30 acts to ensure the implementation of the State Budget Act. How is it possible to establish the rule of law and the rule of law if there are no implementing rules under which it is necessary... That's number one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Number two. The fact is, it's not just a question of whether or not it's represented by a government? But the government didn't do its own job. Or, for example, the next situation when it comes to tax administration. It is not said that the tax administration did not act, among other things, to carry out a full list of assets and liabilities and even to climb more than 52 million kunas related to non-financial assets. Either she didn't make a procurement plan or he's comprehensive and he's not in line with the financial plan. She did not acquire property on the basis of the Public Procurement Act. Most interestingly, it is now related to its special treatment of public procurement. But the worst thing is that it did not carry out tax oversight in large taxpayers during 2005, and what is particularly difficult is said among other things: "And in the predominantly number of taxpayers, supervision has not been carried out since 1998 and 1999, which is not in line with the implementation of the General Tax Law." Be careful not to enforce, not only is it not adopted, they do not impose implementing rules for the implementation of the law, but when there is a law, the national authorities do not then enforce that law which, by force, on the basis of which they are actually established and... Activity and work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now in this context, there is a question of responsibility. You know, from year to year, when we're discussing the State Audit, we're making a whole series of conclusions. These include, as a rule, the conclusion that the Croatian Parliament obliges the Government to provide us with a programme for the long-term removal of irregularities identified by the State Audit within the appropriate period. And initiate the procedures of responsibility [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Unfortunately, there is neither legal nor political responsibility because everything is covered by the principle of political opportunity and not the rule of law. [[Employer: Answer]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84515	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84516	Well, that's right, he's right, colleague Arlovic. Because this is what it means with indicators like this. I don't think this can go to anyone and praise this report if the users of the State Budget were last year so they only acted in 23.7% of the warrants and recommendations. It's very, very symbolic. And then no wonder why is such a system of public procurement and everything else. Because such a system, with the dissatisfaction of the users of the State budget, is precisely a fertile ground for the creation of corruption and all the negative. And not to mention this fact that it also purposely means to play the laws passed by the Croatian Parliament in terms of the adoption of sublaws. Because without the regulations passed, it's probably, somewhere over 60 and some percent of the regulations passed under the law regarding the laws passed by the Parliament in this term. And we've brought about 400 laws somewhere with today. And if I say so again it will work this way that the State Audit is doing its part and that nothing after that, and at least let's start with that political responsibility of the government. That it publicly shows these 30 users of state budget entities and these 93 have given meaning to the tasks and recommendations of the state audit and only 22 have been carried out. Or, for example, last year, they gave the users of the State budget 163 fines, and only 84 were committed. So 79 unexploited. So what are we talking about here? When users of the State Budget elected by the Croatian Parliament, elected by the Croatian Government do not implement Croatian laws and do not comply with the orders of the State Audit, which is the body of the Croatian Parliament. So what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84517	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84518	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84519	You've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. Let me explain now. You've brought up the breach of the Rules of Procedure after the individual debate Mr Jurcevic had, that's right. When he was finished at that point, you didn't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure. When I called and watched Mr. Kovacevic, you raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And then I can't give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure based on Mr. Jurjevic's debate after...... Okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Then why didn't you, so I realized that the breach of the Rules of Procedure was after Mr. Jurjevic's debate. Here you go. Here you go. Mr. Rožic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84520	Thank you very much. I'll... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84521	I can't! I can only get there if you really can't I can help you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84522	If we... MPs shut down the microphone... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84523	Here, buddy, don't turn off the microphone. You've turned it off now. [[And I'm back online, and you're watching it shut down.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84524	I've got the right to come to the phone booth, so I'll come to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84525	What do you got?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84526	It's my business to come for a pay phone if my microphone goes out.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84527	You don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84528	I do. Please read the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84529	According to your Rules of Procedure, you have the right to say I'm here...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84530	So warn your clubmates not to turn off the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84531	And why do you think that your colleagues from the club left of you. Maybe someone's shutting down behind you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84532	May I speak?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84533	Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84534	Thank you very much. Therefore, we have committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure of my colleague, Pacek, and I, for the reason that Article 230, Article 229 and Article 238a have been injured. Rules of procedure when determining, or when voting to remove secrecy from the Special Section of the Report of the State Audit Office. An article in 230 was injured, which says: “After the vote, the president determines whether a single decision has received the required majority of votes and publishes the result of the vote. Article 229 states: “A vote at a session shall be made public unless it is classified and carried out by means of a name or electronic vote.” in Article 238a. reads: “At the request of the representatives of the club, the vote will take place by hand.” So none of the representatives of the Club of Representatives asked for the vote to be held by hand-lifting. ... Okay. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The result of the vote has not been published, and therefore I read the phonogram to convince you. So the phonogram is writing. President: I am closing the debate. Let's try to vote. Let's try to vote on a proposal from the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security to remove the designation "official secret" from the special section. It doesn't say what. Are you in? Thank you. Against? No abstentions. No results.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84535	I will now explain as chairman, I will explain as chairman All right, now I'm going to explain to Mr. Rozic, present my opinion, and then you're going to get that second violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[I asked for the same thing.]] So, all this stuff you're talking about you could have talked about the moment after there was a vote on taking down the secrecy of the data. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Mr. Luka Bebic, the president of the Croatian Democratic Community Club asked to vote. I'm listening, you listen to my explanation. Be so kind and listen to my explanation. If you are unhappy with the Rules of Procedure, you have further options. So, as president of the HDZ Club, Mr. Luka Bebic requested a vote by hand. Afterwards, the President of the Parliament found that a decision had been reached unanimously, and after that we continued this debate. And the violation of the Rules of Procedure by what you were talking about you could have done the moment after it was voted upon on the proposal of the Croatian Democratic Community Club by raising or raising your hand. So I don't think the 230s and the others you've listed are injured. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84536	Thank you very much. I'll pick up where Mr. Rozic left off. We got a phonogram right now, because we couldn't get one before. That's why we're reacting with a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And the phonogram reads: “Let’s try to vote on a proposal from the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security to take down the “office secret” designation from a special section. It doesn't say what part of it. Therefore, parliamentary representatives did not know what to vote on. Keep going. “Are you in? Thank you. Against? No abstentions. I find that the designation “official secret” has been removed, and then we return to the debate on this section on the revision.” The phonogram shows that no voting results have been published or that there has been a quorum in the hall. You can't see anything from that. It was obviously President-in-Office's intention to make it impossible for clubs to talk about such a sensitive issue as the revision. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure are injured because the results of the vote have not been published. We want to know how many votes were in favour. It wasn't published because it wasn't even numbered. Apparently, there weren't enough votes. That's the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you to correct that mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84537	I accidentally chaired the morning or the end of the morning session. At 13.26, I said there's a session going on at 3:00 a.m. when there's going to be a vote on taking secrecy off the data of those. Wait a minute! So, I reject your claim that President-in-Office's intention was to prevent clubs from discussing it more accidentally than I was present here when President-in-Office gave you the opportunity to speak on behalf of the club for five minutes, and according to the Rules of Procedure, you would have no right. So please don't insinuate at least that the President of the Parliament did it on purpose to make it impossible for the representatives' clubs to talk about that item on the agenda. And the more I announced that at 3 p.m., there would be a vote on removing the confidentiality of the data. Thank you. So if you're unhappy with my explanation, you have the parent board and you ask the parent board for an opinion. And no more violations of the Rules of Procedure You can't. ... [[Can I have a word on behalf of the club? Can I go on behalf of the club?]] You can't get on behalf of the club word now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can't get word on behalf of the club now. Is it about the point we're discussing? Here you go, Mr. Rosic. [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84538	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of Club 5, a break on behalf of the club... What do you care where my club is? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And where's your club? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84539	Here you go. Please explain your request.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84540	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club, so to be clear, you've determined that according to the phonogram, you've made it completely wrong for any of the clubs to ask for a vote by hand, it's not in the phonogram, session. Everything you've said is completely different and we need to be clear about it. Of course we can appeal and ask for an interpretation from the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, that's what we're going to do. But the fact is that even at the end of what you said, we simply have to be clear about whether we as clubs can talk for 5 minutes or we can't. Given the fact that we couldn't do it under the rules, since we didn't speak on behalf of the clubs. So we can't get a five-minute closing statement from our rules of procedure, and you said we were offered to do that. And now I'm asking you to see us as a club if we're gonna talk at all, not at all, etc. Five-minute stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84541	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Pecek on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84542	I'm joining a request for a break for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84543	Ten-minute stop. Continuing is at 16 and 35. Same thing. On behalf of the CNS? Okay. Continuing at 16.35. [[I'm looking for a break.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84544	On behalf of the HSP club, the word has a distinguished representative, Rosic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HSS, the honourable representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84545	Today, in the parliamentary procedure, we have experienced a new form of exercise of parliamentary democracy, and this will be some new contributions to the biography of our President Vladimir Seks. Completely unequivocal from the phonograms that we later received, it turns out that no quorum has been established in the vote, until now President Shakespeare has always established it. The phonogram also does not indicate that anyone asked that the vote be done in another way instead of electronic voting. But what is most important on that occasion, President Shakespeare has not announced what is voted for. From the phonogram, it turns out that he didn't meet the MPs for what they needed to raise their hand for. Most importantly, the president didn't publish the results of the vote, we don't know who voted in favour, we don't know how many MPs voted in favour and whether the proposal got a majority. Obviously, the intention was to exclude from the debate the clubs of MPs who would, of course, talk about this highly sensitive subject called "The revision of the users of the state budget in weight of 140 billion kuna". If we know that the passing grade got everything somewhere 29 billion kuna out of 140, we know that the rest is in another gray zone, we just wanted to talk about it. We believe at the HSS Club that, for this reason, this point was transferred to the afternoon debate, so it wasn't directly transferred. It is mentioned here that President Shakespeare offered the clubs to speak for five minutes, the HSS Club did not accept it because it is quite clear to us that according to the Rules of Procedure, if we did not talk about the agenda point, we cannot talk for five minutes. Of course that's what we've accepted would come a request from a club, you know which, if it wasn't in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we wouldn't be able to talk about it. Well, we wanted to talk, for example. About 159 million kunas that ended up in some of the secret accounts that the audit found, and they're called their own revenues from certain ministries and instead of going to the treasury as they were supposed to, they ended up in these secret accounts. We also wanted to suggest that the other secret accounts that were used during the Homeland War for the purchase of weapons and for help from abroad, to try to find a revision, because it obviously didn't work out for others, so we're going to have to look for forensics for lost cases to find it unless the audit found it. At least this way we'll have a chronology of events if the review finds it, we'll have history, we'll know the truth, and I doubt we'll be able to find that money. However, here we will now have to seek the interpretation of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure in this parliamentary procedure in order to vote in breach of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and in particular Article 230, even if it is clear to a young child here and there. President Seks broke the Rules of Procedure, the MPs didn't know what they were raising their hand for, and no one counted the votes behind it, so we don't know if the proposal got a majority or not. This is an eclectic violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I think we should react far more strongly than the Committee's interpretation. The word of democracy has been taken away here, and it is high time we started acting in a different way in the Croatian Parliament. I don't think we need an intensive interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and legal provisions, but that we need to go through a policy of mutual respect and so far applicable rules in the parliamentary procedure where we know who's talking, what rights he has, what he's talking about, but also in what way. We see here that we can't actually talk, our microphones are shutting down, we know who's doing it, and there's obviously an organized form to prevent the club MPs, but obviously, to prevent opposition MPs from talking about what's called an audit, about what the audit has established, which is a violation of the legal provisions on spending money paid by citizens and entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84546	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, the esteemed representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84547	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here we are today from the early morning we went wrong. We started a discussion about materials from which we didn't take off the code of secrecy. That's why I'm asking if we didn't break the law. Because before the debate, she couldn't start until we took off the secret mark. After we didn't do it, we could leave a mark of secrecy, but then we wouldn't be able to discuss it... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You couldn't talk about data. That's right. ... Now we hear he's not a respected Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Gentlemen, today we are discussing the State Audit report, we are discussing how someone should have respected the law, how Croatia's subjects are different from local self-government and on the other hand, all those who have been audited, should have respected the law and discussed whether or not they are, and we are today starting in this way in the debate. I know that it is nervous, I know that the elections and I know that it is not very good to talk about bad things in Croatia, that it is not good to talk about some ministries doing the opposite of the law, that it is not good to say that the laws in Croatia are not respected and it would be much nicer if all of us here representatives would talk about Croatia running honey and milk. However, there are some of us who cannot and who want to talk about things that are not right in Croatia and that we want to fix anyway. Gentlemen, whether we want to or not, we must stick to the Constitution, the Law and the Rules of Procedure, and I hope that colleagues will ask for an interpretation of the committee, whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured today and that they will continue in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84548	Thank you. I've given an explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and we've listened to the clubs. If you are not satisfied with my explanation, you will request the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. We're continuing the debate. The word has a distinguished representative, Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84549	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] The report on the work of the State Audit Office shows that the draft work programme has been fully implemented and I congratulate everyone who worked in the State Audit Office on it. The report was beautifully shaped in a book that we all received and which was so well packed in a nylon wrapper that I had to make a lot of effort to open it without damaging the book. Although too much money was probably not spent to pack, I still don’t think it was necessary because we would get the book without it and she wouldn’t miss anything. As for the report on the concrete audits carried out, they are transparent, precise and detailed, and I have no objections to them, but I am dissatisfied with the situation that many of my predecessors have discussed before. But let me just go to the work report on which I initially have several principled remarks of a formal nature. About 15% of the reports are based on theoretical explanations which are state and local budgets, which include, and on the basis of which acts are brought, the explanation and content and the way financial reports are produced and what they serve, as well as the system of supervision of the budgets and why it is necessary. The following chapter describes the procedures and methods of revision. Let's not worry about further details now, given that we've all received similar theoretical descriptions and definitions appear in other chapters, and that reminds me incredibly of the school textbook. Although such theoretical considerations and definitions are sometimes welcome to wonder if they are necessary for the report and whether it could not have been 20 pages shorter. If we are talking about the state budget and the users of the state budget, it is evident that about half of the entities have received a conditional opinion and that each of these entities is concerned with a whole series of tasks of the State Audit Office which have not been followed and which are not in practice implemented. I will give examples of only three ministries that have received a conditional opinion, and some of us have heard something in previous discussions. For example, in the Ministry of Defence, as much as 80 million revenues have not been paid at the expense of the Treasury. I have a question about what's going on with those funds. Without the procurement procedure, transactions worth 16 million kuna were carried out. The State Audit Office lists as much as 8 of the previous audit warrants which have not been followed in the ministry. In the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, during 2005, without the application of the prescribed procurement procedures, the purchased services of hygienic maintenance of the building are worth more than 2 million kuna. Countys paid interest subsidies on corporate loans under the project local development project entrepreneurs totalling 23 million kuna, almost 8 million more than the amount of subsidies shown in county reports. The question is, where's that 8 million kuna? State support and incentives are planned to amount to around 640 million kuna. The Ministry provided support to users without the instruments of return insurance in the event of non-intentional spending and without an action plan harmonising the planned funds with the support rules and laying down measures for non-intentional use cases. It has also not been followed by 6 audit orders since the previous year. As much as 85 million kunas remained in the Ministry of the Interior, more than planned revenues were received when these unplanned revenues were taken away and unplanned expenditure. Unlisted total assets and not executed 2 orders from previous audits which have not been carried out. When we look at the part relating to local and regional self-government, it is evident that as much as 90% and 283 entities covered by the revision have received a conditional opinion. If we know that every conditional opinion behind it pulls several outstanding orders from previous audits, we come from a number of at least a thousand orders that have not been followed, and that figure is realistic and larger because I simply didn't get to count everything. Furthermore, I do not know what the purpose of today's 2007 is to discuss business and business audits of certain entities, regardless of whether it is the state budget or the budgets of the units and local and regional self-government or their users, companies, institutions and non-profit organisations for 2004, or even for 2003. However, when it has already been done, and there are 53 companies in majority state-owned companies and the ownership of local units for which 19 unconditional, 34 conditional and one unfavourable opinion is that I do not think it would be too much of an additional business for the office to be taxed, which are subject to an assessment, i.e. the type of opinion given by the State Audit. This would be one page more in the report, but would contribute to better transparency and content of the report. Of the 85 other budget users, including audit centres, museums, theatres, public fire departments, libraries, schools, universities, dormitories, music institutions, health institutions, cultural institutions, port administration, road administration, sports facilities and entrepreneurship centres. Therefore, out of 85 of these users 43 received unconditional opinion, 40 conditional, and 2 opinions were unfavourable. So, again, barely half of the unconditional opinions received. Although the results are better than the previous years, there are still too many irregularities in the business of taxpayers' users. This also points to a wide range of possibilities for manipulation, abuse of position and corruption. And that's where one of my key questions came in. What happens if a particular entity fails to comply with the tasks and recommendations of the State Audit Office? The answer seems to be familiar to all of us. Nothing's going on. I have a further question from this. If the audited entities which do not comply with their orders do not have any consequences at all, that is, if the only consequences of the alibi for future management or ruling guarantees are that they are not able to operate and operate in accordance with the laws. If the annual budget of more than 50 million kuna for the work of the State Audit Office could not be used more usefully if the work of the office according to today’s knowledge and today’s state of affairs is its own purpose. Of course, I don't think the revision is unnecessary, but I think we should create mechanisms according to which its findings will become binding as well as the deadlines for implementing a business correction based on these findings. If we don't, then the revision and these reports are pointless and the laws passed in this House of Commons are a dead letter on paper, first of all, for those who propose them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84550	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84551	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs. Šima Krasic and associates from your State Audit Office, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to take part in the debate on the State Audit Office Report which has carried out a review of the financial reports and business of all beneficiaries of the state budget, units of local self-government, legal entities owned or used funds from the state budget. The State Office has audited our Law on State Audit and the objectives set out in that Law and the tasks given to the State Audit Office. But the revision and the report are also made in accordance with international standards and in accordance with the Code of Professional Ethics of State Audit. As for the audit and the report carried out, I have had the opportunity to appreciate over the past ten years how the quality of the audits carried out and how our Office of State audits in the implementation of its obligations laid down by law is doing this better and better, and in my view, the report is methodologically, contentally very high-quality, and therefore I refer to Mrs Simi Krasić and her fellow sincere congratulators. I think our ministries have also made good progress in their business, and that these reports that are ahead of us, who understands that well, can establish visible progress. Now allow me a very brief review of two ministries as long as that time allows. First of all, I would like to give a very brief account of the business of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning in which, as you know, very responsible jobs are being carried out, both administrative and professional affairs in the field of environmental protection, spatial planning, construction, municipal and... Business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, inspections are carried out and two large housing programmes are under way in the ministry. It's so-called. The post program and the program to take care of the victims of the Homeland War who are disabled in war. The report of our State Audit Office on the business of this ministry may say that it contains a single page in total because all that the State Audit has established has been carried out in accordance with the law and regulations and those tasks that the Ministry must carry out in its business. The ministry achieved revenue and incomes from 384 million kuna, down 12.1% of the planned ones. It means that very well, in the need of funding from the state budget, it has been evaluated very well. The expenditure is also significantly lower and amounts to 379 million or less by 13%. Since looking at this financial report, it should be noted that financial assets here, not financial assets, are shown in the amount of one billion, 127 million kuna. However, the large sum precisely refers to buildings that are being built, built over many years. Apartments can't be built in two, three months, but in one year they plan and build it longer until the job is done. The State Audit Office established and gave its opinion that, in all significant aspects, an objective and true view of the business during the year and the situation at the end of the year has been shown. The financial reports shall be drawn up in accordance with the rules laid down by the accounting of the budget and the budgetary users and the operations carried out in accordance with the regulations laying down the responsibility of the ministry. The Ministry gave an assessment of the business. It expressed an unconditional opinion, and I believe, under unconditional opinion, and I believe that both the Office of State Audit and Mrs Šima Krasic agree with me that the business of this ministry has been excellent and can actually serve as an example of how our ministries should operate was excellent and can actually serve as a model how our ministries and legal persons use the resources of the state budget. If this report were compared to the report that we had here before us representatives on the business of part of the ministry, which was then called the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development, then we would actually get a real grade. I'll just specify two or three items. The Ministry of Reconstruction and Development in 2000 made 35 per cent higher revenues and expenditures 44 per cent higher. At the time, the minister raised a 700m-euro loan and, of course, incomed it, spent it, and left the debts to be subdued by ministers who, i.e. the minister or minister who would come behind it. It's just two more things. Incomes, outstanding and unpaid liabilities 89 million, and this year, unpaid liabilities of 3 million and 800,000 kunas are not paid, so we could agree that the funds for regional development are worth 62 million kuna and investments in municipal infrastructure of 43 million accidentally spent, invested in our own constituency of the Varazdin County, Međimurska and Krapina-Zagorska. So here it was just a comparison of a ministry's business according to a report from our State Audit Office. Secondly, about the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, one large ministry employed by 669 employees who had a planned budget of 2 billion 638 million achieved it by 1.1% higher and expenditures planned with 2 billion 638 million were achieved by 67.9% and 32%, respectively. Here, in this revision of the Ministry's financial reports and operations, where the State Audit took a very detailed look at and carried out a review of the accounting operations and accounts and the public procurement process, I must say that the material delivered shows that the State's audit for the truth has carried out a full review of the operations of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Of course, that's her job, but without such a thorough examination, you can't give a proper grade. The most interesting thing or the most problematic thing, however you will, is the issue of subsidies in agriculture that have not been resolved since 2003, and so it was in 2005. I think that's one serious problem that the State Audit has pointed to and I support it in this regard. This is a methodology for planning the implementation of commitments, inflows of funds because in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry the financial year does not match the financial year. Otherwise, all of the other things that have been pointed out in the records do not indicate any significant deviations but are in some way inherited ways the methods of the return of funds given to the counties and are taken to the Privredna banka Zagreb or elsewhere. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, let me conclude that I support the State Audit Report and the Business Report of these two ministries that I have presented.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84552	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84553	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Chief State Auditor with an associate, colleague and colleague! Here, and this time, the lady state auditor at the head of the office with her hardworking team made a report on whose work only praises have been coming in for years. Maybe it's time we paraphrased Beethoven who said in his time that the kings were and will be, and so Beethoven himself said to himself that Beethoven was only one. And I paraphrasing, or referring to what our colleague Marin Jurjevic has claimed, saying that this may be a sacred example of how at the head of such a state institution despite the government's changes, so the governments are coming and going and Mrs. Chief State Auditor is worth doing her job staying at the head of this institution. And he pointed out this as an important example of how it should otherwise be that the heads of state institutions that need to be independent and who claim to do so as much as possible have one continuity despite changes in government authorities. However, in this particular case, whether it is precisely because of this or simply because many are here and do not pay for the findings and opinions of the state audit, or whether these irregularities have been identified or even more significant. The state audit submitted to us a report, i.e. the main state auditor on the consumption of 141.5 billion kuna, gave a conditional passage for 77% of institutions, 21 received a unconditional and 1.8% insufficient assessment. Of course that ratio at unit level of local self-government is much worse. I would point out here as one example actually seems to me in view of a whole series of irregularities so although it has received a conditional assessment only of the Ministry of Economy where the State Audit determines that without public procurement it was purchased service worth more than 2 million kuna, here already such an example has been highlighted, and precisely in order to hygienic maintenance please building. No public procurement procedures have been applied to other procurements either. Furthermore, it is in this ministry that State audits establish that no action plan of support and incentives have been adopted to specifically cover measures in the event of unintended use of funds and uniform procedures against state aid users which do not comply with the commitments undertaken. Furthermore, for the programme of competitiveness and export orientation, no detailed cost plan was drawn up, the participants of the programme did not assess the documentation of the services provided. It has not been done to control the programme and to spend budgetary resources and payments. And the payment has not been made in accordance with the programme and the funding instructions of the programme. The interest subsidies were not paid on the basis of the county's reports. Then, in the customs administration itself, the collection of specific taxes has not been significantly improved since the end of 2005. It also did not establish a full register of taxpayers to pay special taxes. The HZZO established that it was not realistically planned, that there was no real planned treatment costs. Ortopedics and others, orthopaedics and other aids, as well as specialised health care carried out in hospitals. It has been established here and explained that the procurement of medicines was not at all carried out in public procurement but that the procurement was carried out in accordance with a special law, the Law on Medicinal Products. In this situation, we need to ask a question at all. What is the purpose and purpose of the Public Procurement Act? And what is his relationship with other laws? It seems, instead of being a fundamental law alone in our primary and unanimous will to combat corruption, this Law, which is exactly the basic law on public procurement with several others also very important, as we mentioned this morning the Law on Access to Information, which is almost derivated by this Proposal for a Law on the Secrecy of Information, so what is its relationship against other laws? It appears to be used when there is no longer a specific case to apply almost any single law. That's not a good thing. And that's not good practice. And from the point of view of even the legality and compliance of the law, especially if political will is the primary fight against corruption, then must this fundamental law have a primate against other special laws regardless of when they have been passed? Is it before the Public Procurement Act or later? Unfortunately, that's not the case. Furthermore, the State audit determines that the State budget does not provide full information on the total public debt, property and liabilities and State claims. It further establishes that a full record of state ownership has not been established. It was started therefore such a record was established, it began to register state property only in 2000, but unfortunately this process is here to be completed long ago. We haven't recorded the state property yet. With regard to the spending of funds per unit of local self-government, there is a much, much more difficult situation than with individual ministries. But something else, perhaps, in addition to this general section of the State's audit? Thus, according to the Budget Law, budget users can only have one account for all payments, but many users have not closed other accounts and in such a way part of the cash transactions is outside the Treasury system, practically out of control. That seems to me to be a big mistake. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. The budget law is only allowed to pay in advance but it is not a rare situation to do so. However, what seems to me to be something that has fallen into my eyes and has not been before, at least not to that extent, but here is the State Audit that certain budget users paid for the stimulating part of the salary. It's nice to reward a civil servant and a tenant but there was no legal basis for it at all. However, it is explicitly prescribed that this cannot be a permanent supplement on the salary. And when it is possible to do so, it is, above all, a previous procedure in which the Government determines the criteria for determining the net average results and how to pay the allowance for successful cooperation. But the government didn't do it at all by its Regulation or by doing it at all. So the question arises, "Who will answer for this?" Here, a colleague of Biserka Perman said: "No one is responsible for failures, especially in terms of abuse or non-use or ignoring the law of public procurement." And I would say that is not the case. We are witnesses, here in a small municipality where, of course, the government in that municipality doesn't correspond with state authority. Where are the persecutions for a few hundred thousand kunas of a leading man did he comply with the Public Procurement Act? Is this about the same stuff? Did he play or abuse? And this is about millions and nobody. So it's not, it doesn't matter who does what. So someone's looking at a little thing, an eye to the eye, and no one's looking at a log. And that's what, that one selectivity that later in the procedure where, in fact, the state audit doesn't have to do with it. It objectively determines everyone's failures but later on, it selectively approaches who will be processed and who won't? And that selectivity is worse than anything. What is particularly important to note and what needs to be pointed out, what the State Auditor points out. In order to compete and select the most favourable offer, the contracting authority must achieve economical and effective management of the funds, not just the satisfaction of the form prescribed by law and regulation. The fact is that we have fewer and fewer formal ones, even though they are not quite reduced to an acceptable measure, but therefore the formal injuries may be less, but the essential ones in the letter of the law are too many. This specifically refers to units of local self-government that were achieved compared to that previous year, in 2004, an increase of 24% of their revenues by selling land. It's being sold and that's the basic income of local self-government units now. ... And that's one key problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The whole country and it seems that it can only be contained by law [[Intruder: Yes.]] and a ban on availability. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] 'Cause it's a very, very dangerous situation. [[Agreement: Correction.]] We have the right to build and other institutes so we can accomplish what we're not selling. It's in the national and national interest that it doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84554	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84555	Thank you very much. So the esteemed colleague didn't say exactly when she stated that buying drugs was without public procurement and ignoring the Public Procurement Act. That's not true. There is a failure in the Public Procurement Act that should have excluded medicines from this Act because it is the case throughout the world at least in Europe. I would just like to say for comparison that it is possible under the Public Procurement Act that HRT buys 700 million kuna without public procurement because it has consent and HZZO does not have that consent. Well, I guess it's more of a leak than what HRT buys than what HTZO gives people. 700 million without public procurement to HRT is 50% of their budget. And everything's fine because they have an exception. I think the next law should include the exemption for HZZO as well. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84556	Correction of the incorrect quote by the distinguished representative Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84557	Here, I am correcting the incorrect allegations, in fact, Agent Anticevic said that the ministries are spending money beyond control because not everything in the Treasury is being paid. I'd like to remind you that the State Treasury is constantly being built and the fact is that it wasn't all paid in 2005 from the State Treasury because it's being set up. But it's also a fact that if something isn't paid by the ministry it doesn't mean that it's paid by law. Because if that's the case, then what was your business in 2003 when you didn't even pay for anything from the Treasury because this ministry set up the Treasury. And to see how much progress our Ministry of Finance and our Government have made in handling public finances, and I would remind you of your proposal to your club when it was debated the State Treasury's 2003 finding when your club asked our government to correct your shortcomings. That was so amazing to me. The SDP advocates' club has asked the government to take measures to correct their government's shortcomings.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84558	Replica Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Not a replica.]] Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84559	A colleague in breach of Article 209 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure for correcting or distorting my claim because it's not just my quote. I read the State Audit report. On page 32. the second paragraph of the third line is from that way, I will repeat to you, thus part of the cash transactions was outside the treasury system or out of control. That's all I said. Nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84560	Article 209. I don't know where he's hurt! A representative who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure is given his word. I gave you my word. Where I am, and my colleague has corrected the incorrect allegations, and I gave her my word. Now I don't know what I did wrong! ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Okay. Replica is the esteemed Vice-President of the House, Mr. Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84561	Comrade Ingrid, several times before you and you've repeated hearing the government's thesis coming and going, the State Audition and the State Auditor remains. Yeah, that's good about an institution on one side. But on the other hand, at the same time, sad and sad. Not because they remain, but because no one from the government or even from the administration, the general director of the administration did not leave because the law and legality were violated, which is the injured institution of rule of law in the rule of law and which established a state audit by its audit. You know, if there was a serious debate on responsibility based on this finding of the State Audition, no matter what he was partially improved in relation to the past finding, then today after that, we would be discussing a matter of trust to some ministers, and perhaps to the government that, if I were allowed to be people's simple shakes when the State Audit comes. And this is how we have the principle of political opportunity. Let them write, let them enjoin, they establish illegalities. We accept that we will make it right, there is no responsibility. Why? Because, on the principle of political opportunity, in principle, that state policy is actually being implemented, not the rule of law and law, every government protects its own ministry, its administrations in my court are deeply wrong because this will not contribute to the rule of law, legal security and stability of the country regardless of what government it was. You know, sometimes you get the impression of maltene as if you could apply that famous folk proverb: “The dogs bark the caravan goes on. ” That's not good. It is not good that the proverb applies in these segments, and it is even sadder in all that it does not only apply colleagues Ingrid to the State Audit, but it refers to the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of the findings of the State Audit of the Croatian Parliament from year to year it concludes that it should be done according to the findings of the State Audit, determine the responsibilities and never happened before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84562	Thank you. Is there an answer to the replica? It is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84563	Comrade Mato Arlovic, you can see on page 35, so I'll add this and this and that paragraph first to your astonishment. In fact, it often happens that the supply plan is because it seems to me that the most important thing is not to respect this law. Imaginations are also imaginable in violation of the law, but the most common and the greatest damages are caused by citizens' greatest suspicion that there is something wrong with ignoring or disobeying the Public Procurement Act, which is how it is determined. It often occurs that the procurement plan is designed for the supply of goods, works and services in a significantly higher value than those intended for those purposes are intended in the financial plan, which is explicitly not in line with the provision of Article 14. The public procurement law which provides that the contracting authority may initiate the procurement procedure if these procurement funds are planned in the budget or are supplied or otherwise provided. And then there goes this imagination, so when it's already going public, it picks the bidder, the works start and then the realization doesn't come to half of the project, doubles, triples the work as if it were some sudden work. Of course, it's always and most often work in construction works. This is something that especially burdens local self-government units and the dissatisfaction of citizens to always get jobs from the same companies, and then this kind of thing that the State Audit is talking about happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84564	Thank you. The word has been respected by Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84565	Mr. Vice President, state auditors, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'm looking forward to two things in finding this State Audit. I am pleased to have repeated the findings of the state auditor who is correct, methodologically quite fine set, credible and actually very objective. And I look forward to another thing that still increased some of those who have after the State Audit finds without any objections actually that it was accepted and that their condition was determined. But, on the other hand, if we talk about the fact that an unconditional opinion has been given in a positive way, then I must again say that it concerns me that almost the same phenomena occur year after year. Irregular audits have been established, usually consisting of the simplest things relating to accounting business, income and income, and expenditure and expenditure, in particular in the part of funding planning and non-intentional spending, as well as public procurement procedures, etc., etc. When we try to make this concrete, then we get things that are very serious and that talk about not respecting the Public Procurement Act and that, in fact, according to the Public Procurement Act, they don't provide and assign jobs not to make contracts. Then, that there are actually no certain and no records, immaterial assets, etc. That the State aid action plan has not been practically agreed, i.e. it has not been adopted, that there is not a secure and adopted action plan of support and incentives, for example, in the Ministry of Economy, which is amazing. Then that for the Ministry of Economy was not brought again... Competitive capacity, no cost plan, no insurance of subsidy issues, no records of documentation, no records of the return of funds of the insurance instrument. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no means to subsidise the interest given to the counties, not at all, etc. Look, it's about millions of kunas. It's about millions of kunas. And in such a situation, for example, it is very, very thoughtful. And of course, when it comes to that, they added the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Tourism, and then the traffic in which things are similar, then you have something that's amazing. Or if you get into a situation to take over the Department of Justice that property and bookkeeping data were not delivered to the State Office for the Management of State Property, so the question is that now in the Ministry of Justice the assets are not recorded, no Office for State Property has been delivered. Well, that's amazing. Well, then, let's just say the revenue from the securities that the Justice Department is making isn't recorded. Or, I don't know, the Ministry of Science that, for example, costs are not recorded according to the principle of the event, but according to the principle of cash flow. No material expenditure is planned for the settlement of users, etc., non-compliance with public procurement rules. And then you have, for example, that no action has been taken to speed up the recovery of the plant's electrodes and figures by the Ministry of Economy. We talked a little bit about problems related to the tax administration that does not enforce the law, the general tax law regarding large taxpayers. If we added our customs duty a little bit then we would come up with some things that are quite serious and which, with great care, really raise the question of responsibility, I now argue not only of the Government but of the Croatian Parliament. And why is that? Because, among other things, when taking the State Audit report on the state budget, and in particular from the aspect of orders that are not in the process, come once, to the following, the main book and the auxiliary books and financial reports do not provide full information on the total public debt, assets, liabilities, claims, sources of property value are more significant claims of the tax administration and customs administration. Look out, what does this mean? We have an incredible budget. We have the budgets for which we have received reports for their achievement, for which the Parliament has given its consent. And at the same time later, the State Review to determine only in this first point of this. This is a disaster, my colleagues. Or if we did, not all the implementing rules regarding the implementation of the Budget Law have been adopted. The consolidated financial statements of the general government are not drawn up, which is not in line with the provisions of the Budget Act. The main book and financial statements do not show any obligations to issued bonds. No single record has been established in societies of state or bulk state ownership and in companies where the state has shares or shares. The above mentioned records are required for the purpose of the introduction of assets into the main book of the budget, i.e. in the financial report. No individual receipts and expenditure relating to loans from the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports are recorded in the account of financing, business books and annual financial reports. In the account of income and expenditure, as well as in the specific part of the budget, there is no necessary cost analysis for interest related to loans and bonds. Guys, what do we actually have in the state budget? That's the question. It's a matter of our home or our country's arrangements. So it's about very, very serious things. We at the club once again point out that, in fact, once in connection with the findings of the State Audit and State, the State Audit reports on the audits carried out must raise the question of responsibility. For the simple reason we're going as a club, we don't object to the report on the work of the State Audit Office, we have no objection to the report on the audits carried out. We'll vote for all that. We, as a club and as representatives, will support between the rest and all those conclusions, and will propose our own conclusions to accept the report on the work of the State Audit Office, to accept the report on the work of the State Office on audits carried out for 2005. But we will also ask that the government be re-indebted to submit within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament a programme for the long-term removal of irregularities that are repeated in the established audits. We will also ask that the current list of assets owned or used by the State be provided within 60 days through the Office of State Property Management and reported by the Croatian Parliament by the end of this year at the latest. Well, this is inadmissible colleagues that after 17 years of my own independence, we still don't know what's in the possession of the state. We, watch out, we have in, traffic property owned by state shares, shares etc. To advocate that they become a payment instrument that we don't have any records or it enters the state's property records book. Because after all, we're asking a question that's quite unusual, unusual. Be careful, after so many years of the existence of the State Budget Act, no implementing rules or rules to be adopted by the Ministry or regulations to be adopted by the Government have been adopted. And now, all of a sudden, the objection of the State Audition that this should be regulated because it is simply not possible to follow in accordance with the Budget Law at once, there is a requirement to amend the law. Come on, colleagues and colleagues, as long as we are actually going to tolerate the situation that executive power when it does not fit the law changes the law instead of asking the question of liability for procurement in accordance with the law on... which the State Audit found that the broken laws and instructed how the matter should be corrected for the system to establish legality. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It wasn't made. Therefore, I say, I am pleased to have a positive opinion and findings, I am pleased that the State Audit is constantly making demands on what needs to be done to establish legality. The developments that occur in this direction also cheer me, but it is too many of the facts that point to the fact that in our situation or in our case it opens up a very wide number of issues of illegality, not now entering qualifications of forms of illegality, whether it is criminal acts, offences, misdemeanors or financial and accounting failures all one thing, but it is such forms of illegality behind which a huge number is hidden, i.e. a huge amount of financial resources, which are actually difficult to control where they are, and in fact we can hardly get into the area and in this respect neither the Parliament can carry out its supervisory function as a representative body for the execution and implementation of the state budget. Because of all this, I believe that regardless of what we are opposition, we can ask questions like this, but the key question is not whether or not it is. We need to raise the question of responsibility, because there are too many gaps that have been identified by the state's review of the illegality that actually point out that these are points, focal points, the crucial points through which a different form of bribery, corruption and nepotism can happen, and possibly also the various forms of nepotism that comes in financial business with public funds and the resources of the state budget. It's not good. It is not good for all of us, regardless of who is ruling on the scene, whether the position or opposition, the left around the centre or the right center is all wrong for this country, it is not good for these citizens, it warns the state audit, thanking her, and we are responsible for what we do not do in accordance with our constitutional and legal duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84566	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84567	Dear Mr. Vice President, the respected chief state treasurer, colleagues and colleagues. According to the report of the State Audit Office carried out in 2006, it is evident that the State Audit Office has carried out all the tasks and tasks in accordance with the work programme for that year, which means that a total of 747 audits have been carried out in the period for which the annual work programme of the State Audit Office has been established, so from 1 October 2005 to 30 September 2006, a total of 747 audits have been carried out as planned, which means that the plan has been fully implemented. In particular, it should be pointed out that the State Office has been involved in the CARDS programme financed by the European Union’s resources and aims to implement a "twining" project that achieves improvements in the quality of work and training of auditors to carry out the most complex audits. For the purpose of the project, eight audits, financial reports and operations and one performance audit involving the total number of audits were carried out. The current number of employees, the qualification structure, 83% has high professional equipment and territorial distribution is in line with the current needs of the State Office, but should continue with the continuing education and training of auditors with new needs and requirements that await us on the way and in preparation for entry into the European Union. The State Audit Office deserves not only praise for professional and quality work but also for useful instructions, recommendations, advices and orders for which the entities of the audit can in future avoid irregularities and illegalities in the work and remove the failures made. A few words on the findings of the State Audit Office, noting that they therefore refer to the revision of the business of the entities in 2005. Of the 484 audits of financial reports and operations carried out, 475 or 98.2% of the subjects were given a positive opinion of which 102 or 21.1% of the unconditional opinion, and only 1.8 or 9 subjects were given an unfavourable opinion. According to international audit standards... and supervision in the use of... unconditional opinion shall be given in all aspects of financial operations and reporting when legally and other regulations are respected, conditional opinion shall be given in cases where there is doubt of one or more financial reporting positions but it shall not be relevant for the understanding of financial reports, that is essentially a positive opinion and an unfavourable opinion shall be given when business and financial reporting is not in accordance with legal and other legal regulations, that is a negative opinion. [[You don't understand.]] According to a number of entities, an unfavourable opinion is expressed in 6 units of local self-government of a company and 2 other entities. The audit of the state budget and the beneficiaries of the state budget shows that out of the total of 30 users in 14 of them, there was an unconditional opinion, and at 16 conditional opinions, which means that, in fact, business was positive for all users. Irrespective irregularities that mean strengthening the functioning of an internal control system, i.e. a control system that must be involved in all phases of the budgetary process and must ensure timely detection and removal of irregularities. A well-organised internal audit significantly improves the performance and efficiency of business and contributes to saving time in mandatory audits. As a result, during 2005, most of the budget users started to form an internal audit. At the end of the year, the Minister of Finance adopted an Internal Audit Regulation laying down the conditions to be met by the auditor, standards and methodology of work, a common criterion in the organisation and coordination of the work of the internal control of the beneficiaries of the budget. In June 2005, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Strategy for the Development of Internal Financial Control with the aim of strengthening the overall system of control and supervision in the use of public funds, as spending of public funds is subject to general interest. It is also necessary to mention activities in the construction of the State Treasury. The report finds it difficult sometimes to conclude how much progress has been made, and in spending, in the quality of budget spending. But if we take the base back in 2003, and that's where we really got help from the SDP counseling club, because he asked the government to help us. Ivo Sanader, that all the irregularities observed in the 2003 state audit were to take measures, so the conclusion was that the government was to submit a report on the measures to be taken. And this government, Dr. Eve Sanader wrote on the 150 pages all the irregularities and measures she will take, and that is why we can rightly always go back to that year in 2003 because she is actually our right base to see how far we've made progress, and according to what I see, how much progress we've made, it's really a great shift in quality. He's still building up. The 2006 State Audit will certainly score 100% better than the 2005 report. I am also pleased to mention that the State Audit Office will continue to work on drawing up an audit manual strategy, methodological guidance and guidelines at the centre of the revision promotion will be education and training of auditors and quality assurance of the work of the state audit, which will ultimately ensure greater responsibility for the availability of public sector resources. Finally, as the conclusion of this quality and comprehensive report of the State Audit Office, we can conclude that an increase in the number of entities for which it is expressed is unconditional opinion and a reduction in the number of entities at local level with an unfavourable opinion. Positive progress has been made in keeping business books, preserving and using public property, spending and managing public funds, and significantly reducing the number of irregularities in the business of entities. In the context of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to European integration processes, major progress has been made in gaining professional knowledge, strengthening internal audit and understanding of the environment of the European Union and carrying out audits under new conditions. I therefore give full support to the work of the State Office, its involvement in strengthening and improving audit operations at all levels, but also through cooperation with other institutions and providing access to information on the work of the audit. Finally, once again, I support the work of the State Audit Office, the report on audits carried out, as well as the overall efforts and efforts made by the Government and other institutions to improve the work of the State Audit, affirmation of internal audit work through simplification of procedures, reduce time and reduce the costs of audits and through preventive action to prevent irregularities in the business of public funds users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84568	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84569	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of a colleague who says a significant quality shift has been made compared to 2003. It is precisely from the audit findings that a significant quality shift does not result and is not evident because it is not available. Furthermore, the severe consequences of obstructing the Public Procurement Act and continuing to be obtained by the ministries without calling a public tender with the fact that there is no continuation of the State Property List process that the Government has started, and now it cares even worse than we had in 2003, this government does not even have a procurement plan, a particular ministry, or most of the ministries do not even have a procurement plan. He spends more than planned, but it wasn't during that government, so there's no significant, significant shift in quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84570	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84571	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of mine mentioned that the SDP club was looking for measures to correct the illegalities they were doing there, and somehow I have a feeling if he asked for it to be derelict because apparently they didn't expect to be later formed an investigative commission which for Mr. Cacic and Tomcic had very carefully explored what was going on at the time. So we saw that actually the State Review must perform, formally perform and review and everything else, and that content was actually what was the worst where there was maximum distortion and the public competition. So let's say the public tender at the end of 2003 was for construction of business buildings without construction permits, without projects, awarding their own companies still, which unfortunately we can't read here. A similar situation was Vukovar, Cres, not to say so much. One thing's good, though, is that the treasure is formed. If we remember how many accounts the ministries worked in 2003 and what it all looked like and what it was, in fact, a disagreeable team led it, I think the treasury will really help to be spending transparently and find good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84572	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84573	Well, here's what we've heard right now from Mrs. Lalic, and here's how much progress our government has made, or the Ministry of Finance and other ministries in me would say quality spending of financial resources, so what with purpose. A lot. Here's to information and representatives of Lalić, 2003 And to you, here are your colleagues. [[Intruder: Manny.]] Here's a colleague. In 2003 only two unconditional opinions were given, and now there were 8 of them. I think he says a lot, but I remember that State Audit for 2003 very well, and that was terrible. It wasn't even any detailed list on the property, all this government had to do was do it. I have to tell you that in the list of assets, if it weren't so simple, it would have been done from 2000 to 2003, there wouldn't have been any such problems, but it requires a great effort and harmonisation of records. When harmonising records anyone who deals with finance must know that this is not a simple procedure, that you will not determine any claim or obligation as you wish, you have the other side. Therefore, it needs to be coordinated. What was the case in 2003 was something terrible, therefore great progress was made and this is the only way to establish that state treasury, therefore, to pay from one account. I also remember that obligations were paid from all accounts in all ministries. It happened that the programmes could not be achieved in a ministry because there was not enough money, but it was in some ministries, it remained surplus and not programmes were made. Who didn't make it? Those who were quieter ministers, while those who were loud they achieved something, had a surplus that was on the jury at the end of the year and which was not actually used. Because of this surplus, some programs were not where they were supposed to be, they could have been accomplished. Therefore, I believe that a major quality shift has been made because I should have said it all worked out in 2003, 2004, 2005, and the findings of the State Audit will be really even more high-quality in 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84574	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84575	Infringement of Article 209, Mr Vice President. It seems to me that you hurt him and that because you let your colleague answer to a replica of a colleague actually responds to my correction of an incorrect quote. So he's using how a list of assets isn't easy to make. I'm not gonna say what my colleague says. I'm not gonna say this was scary now. A colleague writes, for example, the ministry doesn't have a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84576	Okay, don't break the Rules of Procedure now, you've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84577	There are no compelling reasons that from... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84578	I've heard your argument, your opinion. ... Well, I know, but don't argue under the influence of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I've heard your argument, the explanation I've heard yours, it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The esteemed representative replicated Mrs Majdenic to ask the SDPs for correction of the irregularities and then Mrs Majdenic responded to the replica and responded to the corrections of irregularities, so she spread a little where everything in her opinion had been corrected. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84579	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Mrs. Krasic, with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. I'll be right there to begin by joining all those who have expressed praise for the work of your office. We're already here, year by year, taught that we simply have nothing to say about your findings, but we can only commend them. The objective and purpose of the audit carried out should primarily be to detect irregularities in business. Of course, if those irregularities exist. And that, on this basis, the State Audit Office finds certain actions to remove these irregularities. It is therefore logical to expect that the competent authorities of those entities for which the audit has been carried out will carry out a hearing on the finding of a state audit and, on the basis of this debate, make certain conclusions and measures on how the irregularities observed are removed and repeated. However, as can be concluded from these materials that are before us, this principle is often not respected, or those who are responsible for the proper operation of certain institutions, often work on the principle of some revision for their own sake and we will continue to do as we please and as we please. And what is the worst of such a principle of work goes by and no one, or anyone, suffers the consequences of disrespecting the instructions of the State Audit Office. Based on one example, I'm going to try to show what it looks like in practice. In October of last year, I asked the State Audit Office the following parliamentary question. Is there an audit at the Split-Dalmatia County Health House, and if the audit is carried out, I ask that I be provided with the audit report for the facility? I got the next answer from the State Audit Office. The State Audit Office's work programme planned to carry out a review of the financial reports and operations of the University of Health of Split-Dalmatia County for 2004. The audit was carried out between 6 September 2005 and 2 February 2006. After completion of the audit in accordance with the provisions of Article 7(2). The State Audit Act was submitted to the statutory representative of the audited entity on 3 February 2006. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The State Audit Act is prescribed that the State Audit Office submits to the Croatian Assembly an annual report on the audits carried out and on its work until the end of the current year. In accordance with those provisions of the law, the State Audit Office will submit an annual report on the audits carried out and on its work within the time limit provided for. He writes in response to the State Audit Office and, in that response, nothing is disputed. I didn't get the audit I requested back then, but here, I got it today, and I thank you for that. But the least important thing is that I get that finding. Because I am neither in the Department of Health of the Split-Dalmatia County nor a councilwoman in the County Assembly. It is important that the report on the audit carried out has been submitted to the legal representatives of the audited entity. And as my question has been answered, the report was delivered to them on February 3, 2006. It has been more than a year, then, that a report on the audit carried out for 2004 has arrived at the Health House of Split-Dalmatia County. And there's still no debate in it. The report was not discussed by the Administrative Council of the House of Health or the County Assembly, and just to remind the county is the founder and owner of the House of Health. And to make things even worse in that report, a series of irregularities have been identified in the business of this institution. So, among other things, it's coming to a conclusion and the following. The Public Procurement Act was not respected, so without the prescribed procurement procedures, it was purchased sanitary material, RTG material, office material, supplies, materials and parts for current investment maintenance, computers, office materials, etc., not to add any further. Then, the procedure for the procurement of equipment for ophthalmology, physiology equipment or the correction of works on changing windows and doors was also not in line with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. The purchase of 12 hemodialysis apparatus was agreed at one price and was ultimately paid 453 thousand kuna more than the agreed price and price per account to the County. The audit also established a messy collection of rents for the premises that were leased. The home did not keep an orderly record of the business premises and equipment that were leased. The late payments were not charged and charged by legal tight interest and claims on this basis at the end of 2004 amounted to nearly 3 million kuna. These are only some of the irregularities identified by the findings of the state audit. It is interesting that all these irregularities and failures in the business of this institution are justified by initial discrepancies. Namely, the Split-Dalmatia County Health House was formed in late 2003 by joining the former 13 health homes in the Split-Dalmatia County area. The problem is that this reportedly initial discrepancies lasts to this day, because on the basis of the knowledge that I have in the way I do business, nothing important has changed. And then the County Assembly decides to give a guarantee of a loan that should bridge the financial delinquencies in which the home of health is located. Well, I guess before that, there was supposed to be a thorough discussion about the business of the facility itself to see if there were irregularities in financial operations, is there any way to say the holes through which the money was unwarranted? If it is to judge according to the State Audit Office report, such a hole has quite a bit. So, first of all, these facts need to be determined, then measures taken to remove irregularities in the business and to take more account of the way in which the budget money is spent, and then to make a decision to raise the loan. And to make the matter even worse, the county council insists that a debate on the finding of a state-run audit on the business of home health should be placed on the agenda of the County Assembly, but their request is persistently rejected. Here, there she is now seen just come and president of the County Assembly of our county, so I hope that here, and after this debate finally puts that topic on the agenda of the County Assembly. I find this behavior inadmissible. It is unacceptable that no one is doing anything to correct the observed irregularities. Those responsible are not subject to any sanctions. They're still doing what they want. Such indignity, ignoring the State Audit findings, is inadmissible that it is a private company, let alone when it comes to a state-owned public institution, means an institution financed by citizens. In the end, I say once again, this is just one example, and unfortunately there are many more and it's high time to start sanctioning all those who ignore the findings of the State Audit Office and do nothing to remove the irregularities detected because in the opposite of the work of the State Audit Office becomes their own purpose, it remains a dead letter on paper and in no case should that be the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84580	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84581	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is incorrect that the Split-Dalmatia County did not discuss the findings of the audit, it did so in 2006 for 2005. In connection with the state of the Health House of Split-Dalmatia County, a colleague also incorrectly stated. In November, it brought together all the health homes of the Split-Dalmatia County in a unique House of Health of the Split-Dalmatia County under the then legal obligation of the coalition government. The debts and loans that the Split-Dalmatia County has raised are due to the repayment of debts that previous health homes have made and large suppliers have requested the payment by means of executive documents and in the executive procedure. Therefore, the best way to do so was to raise the credit most effectively because the drugs delivered and obtained had to be paid to large suppliers. I also believe that great progress in the Split-Dalmatia County has been made in the quality and quality of healthcare, which has been the most contributed by the unique Health House of Split-Dalmatia County.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84582	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84583	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 209. Namely, my colleague Peronja corrects my exact statement or it's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84584	But he thinks it's incorrect. I can't right now, he appreciates it's incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84585	The fact is, he knows very well, because in the first month of this year, it was also requested that this finding be put in the county assembly, therefore it was not discussed. And I'm not the one who got into trouble with the loan, of course the loan's gonna go up, but it's just about the way it's done in our county.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84586	It's not about the violation of Rules of Procedure 209. We've already discussed this on several occasions. In the opinion of Mr. Peronja, your claim is incorrect. Let's move on. The word has a distinguished representative, Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In my opinion, I would only say a few things about the revision of the state budget, some state institutions or ministries. In fact, the fact is that Mrs Krasic and her team can hardly miss anything, they showed it this year. And now, Mrs Krasic finds everything that doesn't work in the functioning of state institutions, ministries, offices and so on. If state audits were repeated in all or in most of these entities, certain mistakes of the same type would be repeated by a person who said something wrong with the system of audit or something wrong with the system in the organisation of these institutions or ministries when all errors were repeated. But it's not like that. From this number of thirty I took for this discussion to review institutions and ministries some function without error. For example, the Regional Development Fund, HABOR, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which has improved from the previous finding where it has had a lot of objections, the Croatian Employment Service, the Ministry of European Integration, the Ministry of Finance within the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Family, the Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning and Construction, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which has also been significantly improved since the previous finding, the National University Library, the Central Office for Management, the Office for General Affairs of the Assembly and the Government function without error. The find is positive, the finding is unconditional and no problem. So the evidence can be found. Some are persistent and repeat mistakes. So, with the Real estate Agency, they don't keep business books neatly. So what the hell are they doing if the books don't run neatly? How does this work? They don't have a supply plan. The Customs Administration pays by advance which is otherwise not possible without a special permit from the Government and without a contract. I ran a high school institution for many years. If I'd done that, I would've ended up in prison, that I'd paid for an advance without a contract for a job. I don't know what crime is if it isn't. The state hydrometeorological institute so now I don't make all the mistakes that are mentioned, but they behave worse than the owner of the paystand, nothing seems to work. The Croatian Emigrant Queen rents space by arrangement, not competition. No purchase plan, no inventory, no asset list, nothing like that. The Croatian National Theatre pays in advance again without government permission, spends money without plans and besides plans and so on. The Ministry of Economy is working chaoticly. As far as public procurement is concerned, as regards the control of the funds spent and the like. The Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and Transport runs non-transparent accounting, no support plan. The Ministry of Agriculture does not account for a tight interest on some of its claims, does not pay the collected funds to the state budget but somewhere else, I don't know, one of those secret accounts they're talking about, does not conduct public procurement according to regulations. The Justice Department has an incomplete financial plan, no apartment records. The Ministry of Science has no procurement plan, public procurement is occasionally carried out against regulations. The IRS doesn't have full inventory, so he doesn't know what he's got, he doesn't have a supply plan. So, you've also been made mistakes, failures, illegalities, I don't know which category it belongs to, but what these surveyed entities are doing now. They usually regret it. The first group recognizes everything like the State Hydrometeorological Institute. He admits everything and doesn't say anything. Revision report accepted. That's what we're taking. Nothing to anyone. The other group admits everything and says they'll fix things like the Emigrant Mother. They accept the full finding point by point and say, "We're going to fix this point. We will fix this point and this point and all." The third group admits everything and explains in detail why they were bad in the past period. It is preceded by the Ministry of Agriculture with a detailed explanation. And the fourth group doesn't want to discuss the State Audit findings at all and they don't show up. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports at the find of the State Audit of a point of finding the State Audit is simply not apparent. It was nothing. And now they're acting different. Mistakes were found differently. What's the result of all this? What's going on? It's nothing. Nothing. According to the audit report, the ministry or state body, which is already under the obligation to the State Audit, is an institution. It's like a commitment someone needs to make to Mrs. Simi Krasic. So these people are bound by those who pay them. According to the taxpayers. They didn't spend the money the way the regulations say, but somehow different. And they are not bound by the State Audit, but by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And above all, they should be bound by their own morals and say, "People, we don't know how to do that." Look at our mistakes. Look at our mistakes. Look at our mistakes. Let's get out of here. It's no place for us. We don't know how to do that job. The state budget is a special story. Public debt is one, according to one, 73.7 billion, another 57.9 billion. You don't know exactly how much it is. You don't know what they're like either. You don't know exactly what they're like. They're in one place, the other place. The inventory, and the list of assets, that's it. The inventory of state property wasn't made. We know that no master is anywhere, never has been but definitely and can't be master if he doesn't know what he has? What is this country's mastery of? So the state doesn't know what her property is. And there's one more thing about the State Audit report on the State Budget is there's no implementing rules. This government is a declarative government. A government that makes great promises and great declarations, but when it comes, when it comes to a particular job that needs to be done, things look different. The law looks good, the law looks great. Everything that is said in this House looks great but the implementing rules are made so that there is no way, so that things cannot be done until the end. The explanation provided by the State budget on the audit findings is mainly: intensively done. So you've been working so hard for quite a while now, and I'm curious about when they're going to do something intense and concrete? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84588	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ljubica Lalić. ... Excuse me, dear, distinguished representative Zdenka Babic-Petrichevic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84589	Comrade Vuljanic, Mr. Vice President, I apologize. When you read something about the work of the State Audit Office for 2006 I hope you know, I have no doubt that you can't read, so read at least what it says. In 2006, the Croatian Emigrant Queen opened a tender for the first time for renting her space. Two subjects reported. Neither of us responded to the competition, and therefore we could not rent our premises. As president of the Management Board of the Croatian Emigrant Queens and Directors, we want to do so because, in this way, we want to contribute to better material and work and financial work of the Croatian Emigrants Queen and thus bring all citizens closer to the Croatian Emigrants Queen so that it does not exist, there will be no deviation from her as it has been so far. It's Mr. Vuljanic in 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84590	Thank you. Dear Representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84591	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Auditor, I would first of all like to congratulate you on your work and on your efforts for a year. And by observing today the situation in the Croatian Parliament can only assume and imagine how you feel. In fact, this atmosphere is demoting for you. I won't say depressing. But I want to encourage you. Don't be demoted by the way you vote on taking down the mark of the official secret because it was really about improvising the vote. No quorum was found, no vote results were announced, but do we know what the target was? Before that impromptu vote, in fact, two clubs were impossible to discuss your findings in three ministries because they were covered in official secrecy. The rest of the clubs, in fact, this improvisation has made it impossible to speak at all. I guess the club debates have a significant weight because they represent that part of the electoral body that these clubs got. You don't need to be demoted or the process of part of your colleagues and colleagues in the assembly today. They're bored, and that's why they're playing cell phone music with the favors of our chairman's smile, but let's make it an incentive for spite. For spite and beyond, and beyond...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84592	This Regulation shall enter Dear Representative Lalic. Article 214 states that a representative shall give a warning if he does not stick to the topic under discussion in his speech. The theme is the State Audit report, not what you're talking about. I'm warning you to get back on the subject. [[Intruder: Exactly]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84593	That's exactly what Mr. President, I'm using this introduction to give a boost. To remove a depression that has to affect every responsible house that's ever done a responsible job like this. And out of fear that this depression, that demotivation doesn't leave a mark for next year because of that, on behalf of all of us, I want to support the work of the State Audit. So your job is very important because you controlled the legality of spending taxpayers' money. Total of that money in the state budget was 140 billion and we saw how much money was spent and how much money was spent. For this someone has to pay bills to taxpayers who paid taxes not from luxury, not because it is an excess, but because it is a provision of the law and those citizens respected the law unlike the Croatian government that is in charge of law enforcement. We see from your report that these laws are not respected, and today we heard in the Croatian Parliament so that these laws may be amended. So those laws that don't respect them will change and we've solved the problem. When we discuss and discuss any report or report on the State Audit Report, it is, in fact, an incentive for us to discuss what this report has found, not how this report is made up. Is it technically like this or like this, than you can actually... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84594	I'm asking you not to shut down the distinguished representative of Lalich's microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84595	I want to use my ten minutes, I'm trying to make a contribution to this debate, and I'm allowing some people not to, so they don't have to sit here either. So, from this report, it is absolutely clear that we have a government that is arbitrary, which is arrogant, and that has no knowledge. Why is that? So in this report, it says that expenditures were made above planned, obligations transferred in the following year. How to interpret this differently than self-will, because the Croatian Parliament has established the budget of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Croatian people, have established the budget. The government was supposed to implement the budget as she suggested. By the way, no single amendment to the opposition has been accepted. However, these expenditures are not carried out as planned, reflecting self-will, ignorance, haughtiness, but also trying to put the government above the Croatian Parliament. So it is the government that is changing the decision of the Croatian Parliament. It is she who decides on expenditures without a procurement plan and, of course, transfers in the following year. Incredibly but true in your report it is read that not all, but some ha probably small “goddes” in their sectors also had payment of the stimulating part of the salary, continuously and continuously, despite not having adopted criteria for the award of that stimulating part of the salary. What does that mean? It would be interpreted in all kinds of ways. But here's the deal. I'll hold on. Furthermore, your report says that the cost of the transfer is not controlled. If you don't control the cost of the transfer, then what does it control? What is controlled by spending not on state money, but on taxpayers' money? Is it possible for abuses to be given, for example, to pave the way for county roads, and these transfers are then given there to some emperor, the king, a local powermaker who later ends up in bankruptcy and is no longer available. That's not our money. It's taxpayer money. Furthermore, the problem of public procurement has been discussed all day. Although it was trying to correct the allegations, they are impossible to correct because they are contained in your report that public procurement, that public tender actually are too often satisfying form. What's the point of a public competition? Well, the purpose of a public tender is to deal with these resources more economically and efficiently. Unfortunately, your report shows that this is not always the case, but that these public tenders are only being debated for the sake of form. Of course, there's no procurement plan, no public procurement records, not to mention any more drugs obtained without public... What's visible from your report is that this government has no policy of uniform regional development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is that? Well, according to the county's fiscal capacities, you'll see that Slavonian counties have the lowest capacity. My County Brodo-Posaviska 1806 Kuna, Požeško-Slavonska 2200, Virovitica-Podravska 2178, Vukovar-Srijemska 2091 Kuna. It means they're the poorest. And if we want to, and it's the government's obligation to implement a policy of uniform development to make it possible for these counties that are most unlikely to be helped. However, when we look at the aid achieved by the county for 2005, then we will see that this poor Brod-Posavina County has received 46 million aid, Vukovar-Srijemska 74, Virovitski-Podravska 39, and now these data tells us nothing until we combine them with other data, so when we combine them with the aid of counties that are significantly stronger in fiscal capacity. For example, Split-Dalmatia 138 million, Dubrovnik-Neretvaska 66 million etc. etc. And when we continue to read all of this, then we are actually fully aware of the reasons why one thought of regionalism has brought such strong support. She got it for those reasons I told the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance three years ago with your policy towards regional development, we'll get it first... Regionalism, and then autonomy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not an autonomist.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84596	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84597	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, I will correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Lalić where she claimed that the State Review that she was depressed and demoted in her further work in view of the discussions that were being held today. I deny such an opinion because I think they always do as they are told by the legal basis, as well as the rules on handling in cases where they are auditing the ministries as well as the institutions and state institutions. And I'm glad that I could see through this that they actually saw these irregularities that occurred or failures that were made. And so did a series of commendations from the ministries that did the job thoroughly, honestly, fairly and clearly, and had no deviation from all legal norms. So I say once again that there is no reason for depression and demotivation, nor is it present at the State Audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84598	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84599	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague said wrong, and I hope she got confused when she said we have a government that's arrogant, self-willed, who doesn't know. She was probably talking about the previous government. In fact, the previous government was arrogant, arbitrary, and did not know, so it peed, swept 6 and a half percent of the state budget under the carpet, or 7 and a half billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84600	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84601	Well, I'm correcting incorrect allegations on condition that a colleague was referring to this government, not to the previous government. Because this government is really neither arbitrary nor arrogant, etc. In this government, let's say ministers don't have their own companies. For example. for supervision, engineering, you are not furniture jobs unlike your minister colleague who, by manipulating public procurement, have achieved excellent results for their own companies, and at the expense of budgets and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84602	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84603	Yeah, it's a violation of Article 209 because it's under the wrong assumption that a colleague is trying to correct what I didn't say. My colleague, and you're already talking about other people's companies, then you're the first to mean it, and then you sweep it under your threshold first, and you'll see what you've got.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84604	Article 209 has not been harmed. He corrected his colleague in his opinion the incorrect assumption that this government was not boastful and what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84605	And to that end, a court that falls under someone else's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84606	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative of Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84607	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I think a complete speech... In accordance with this House of Highs. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Because the lady only spoke against the government. I would correct my colleagues, correct the same allegations that this government is boastful that this government is arrogant that with a smile it only promises nothing to keep. I'll tell you, ma'am, that the expenditure of previous governments, this government is all the opposite of what you said and one argument. This government would never ban toy imports if the minister had an exclusive right to import toys from China a year later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84608	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84609	She misrepresented her colleague. It is this Croatian government that implements decentralisation and it is incomparable in general to compare the Brod-Posavina County with Split-Dalmatia given the 474 thousand inhabitants and to the share of tax on the share of income tax. And that kind of statement leads the public to a misrepresentation. Namely, this is the only approach that the State Audit stated is analyticalally complete where the full effects of the Croatian Government in decentralisation are seen, especially public functions in the field of primary and secondary education and also on others that I do not count because of the time. ... And the review is excellent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84610	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Zvonimir Mršić. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. The word has a respected representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84611	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here today, by discussing the findings of the 2005 Audit, we can certainly say that things are moving in the right direction and that the state budget and budget of the ministries are actually going towards strict control, and this was done for one reason. Which introduced a way of paying through the State Treasury, which has no more than 4 hundred and 80 or 90 accounts in various ministries as their segments, which is no more wasteful, arrogant spending without justification and reasoning. I would like to point out that in particular, the Croatian Defence Ministry, which has an assessment of the unconditionally that it has spent its resources even increasing its budget for 2005 and 2006 in its real intention to help disabled people of the Homeland War, families of the dead, victims and missing Croatian defenders. I can also express my satisfaction to see in the State Audit report on commodity supplies, about goods reserves where there are certain and conditional and report, which is why the conditional assessment is due to the purchase of goods moving goods or delivering goods or renewing goods in the stock reserves. In fact, it is a mistake because no procurement has been made in the public tender that 48 thousand transports that take place over the course of the year in goods supplies. But we are satisfied and happy and we can commend the stock reserves that there are no more mice, rats, birds who have taken away the complete contents of the silos that disappeared during your power and under your minister. There are no more fossils drunk in the upper silos, so the wind turns them over, this is no longer in the stock reserves but they are real and they exist for the needs of the Croatian state, which is bound by law. And I can tell you when it comes to haughtiness, the living example of haughtiness on local self-government was with you in 2005 with your leaders in Pitomača Municipality, for which you and Pecek fought so hard about procurement, about public procurement without competition. It's about those advance payments without an open tender, without the agreed form. Where you're talking about an increase from what was agreed on by 73% without any explanation. Where it's been said that a year and a half of the merchandise stands an advance payment in the warehouse. It's a crime. It's money laundering. This is what needs to be dealt with and what it says in the report of the State Audit for the Municipality of Pitomaca and which is why the government in the Municipality of Pitomaca fell because it was against its citizens and it was spending as much money as you've learned to do so far. So you're in the ministry of the former if we remember a ministry that was involved in small and medium enterprises when the State Audit report described that the illegal and illegal stimulation of employees was shared because of the exceptional merits of their work. So I think the least of your rights are to say about how the State Audit works. I used to get angry last year over the Virovitica Hospital where certain things were really happening and also 11.5 million kunas of dubiosis that we have to return today. These were your actions that you left behind in your past term. When you talk about Slavonia and the findings of the audits, you can see that Slavonia has been neglected as a region, all of these districts. I can say that I am pleased and happy that in Virovitica-Podravska County, budgets and cities are gradually rising every year, and so with 23 million in 2003, the original budget has grown now to 80 million kuna, and the county rises every year by 10 million kuna since we took responsibility for the county. So, Mrs. Dear and Gentlemen dear, who you've spoken about haughtiness, she's seen through past audits, she's seen through past crime processing that followed, she's been visible through the past time who's been getting rich, who's been doing these jobs on hand, whose companies have been building that the state was paying and the question is just wondering why no one ever found where the money ended. Although we know that your Mr. Tomcic is also in his grand company, Mr. Cacic's, that these are companies where they are unequivocally spoken of as being raised by Mr. Marinović, who also had some of these services provided during your coalition time. I wouldn't want to keep counting, I've told you enough. We rescheduled mice, we rescheduled rats, fossils in silos and sparrows that ate state reserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84612	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84613	Actually, it would take me half an hour to correct all possible incorrect allegations, but I'll start from the beginning. He says there is no more boastful spending, and I don't know what it would be called than, say, the Ministry of Agriculture's conduct when out of 8 million kunas to co-finance the restoration of the olive groves, the funds are divided not by competition, but by the minister's decision or the acquittal as the minister's college said. In my opinion, it's arrogant, and it's all boastful. How do you call the Minister of Agriculture's treatment when it's planned for subsidies of a billion 995 million and it's only worth a billion 156 million. As far as Djakic's stockpiles are concerned, I allow someone to forget quickly, but just as easily that you forgot everything that happened until 2000, and everything you took of it was related to your authorities until 2000. As for companies and allegedly moving money and my former party leader, you would have to know the position and findings of the Commission of this House which found that there was no abuse and that there was no removal of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84614	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84615	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting my fellow Djakic's allegations that there are no mice, rats, fossils and sparrows in the stock reserves. I happen to be a member of the Trade Reserve Supervisory Board, and I wish I could tell you what's in there, because the report on the state of supply bears a code of secrecy, so I can't tell you in the House until the Parliament takes down that secret mark, but we would be very disappointed to see the report. When we were dealing with the problem in early 2004, 1995, 1996, and 1997, and then these problems began to be solved, but why don’t you know? Because neither 2004 nor 2005, nor in 2007, a legal obligation will be respected to refer the status report to the Government of the Parliament in the stock reserve. No report in this term has been given to the Government of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84616	Thank you. In part, you've corrected an incorrect quote, and there are no cats, mice and this, but this is not what the other representative was talking about, you're... Don't let me warn you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Replica, distinguished representative Tomic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I will rely on this State Audit report which I fully support, but I would like to say something about irregularities when it comes to what is irregularity, and here is what my colleague Djakic said, that irregularity, non-implementation of the Public Procurement Act, here I am now saying that the Government in 2004 entered into the purchase of 320 thousand tonnes of wheat was bought, 145 legal persons, paid 19 thousand peasants, 384 million and I am asking you nicely to avoid both mice and rats simply those 320 thousand tonnes could not be held in 145 legal firms, but also my dear gentlemen my dear law was implemented under Article 6th paragraph 3. where road traffic is exceptional and not according to Article 7(1) and certainly it is not an irregularity. But here's the legislator saying it's an irregularity. Otherwise, as far as mice, pieces, etc. I think that individuals in this House, despite being members of the supply council, really have nothing to say about the operation of the government's stockpiles because they only came to the first founding assembly or founding council, they were never there after that. And some gentlemen who say, I agree, and that is the fact that by 2000, everything was there, but also gentlemen by 2004, it is certainly not the work of this government or Incubo or the export in 2003, nor 13 magnificent 2003s that stole from these stocks 25 million tonnes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84618	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84619	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, here I have to replicate my colleagues, respond to the replica of my colleague Tomic that he has actually introduced me to the real truth that Mr. Lesar in correcting the incorrect allegations actually insinuates some state of supply in which there is no slight connection because he was only in the founding session, he was not there at all, so that he presented something he had never actually seen or heard or could hear because he was not there. I would also like to say in this reply to the replica, that as far as spending and haughtiness is concerned, it is clear in the municipality of Pitomanac on the finding of the State Audit, which is such a deeper document, which speaks of all the difficulties that have arisen in the Municipality of Pitomanac that the purchases have been and have deviated and 73% from the agreed prices so that there has been a series of legal deviations that have not been sanctioned today. I would like to stress that the award at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts has also been called illegal in the previous audit, but nothing has ever happened. The money's gone, some's been working overtime, some's been superior to their jobs, so the results are so great, they're behind them. Namely, when you began to deal with the 2004 stockpile recovery of '94. For years, I think you've been late, Mr. Lesar, along with all those, wartime has been carrying its burden and all the other consequences. You first had to resuscitate from 2000 to 2003 what was called the missing, missing from the stock and missing from the deposit in silos in... And Slatini. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We had to resuscitate it first... They had bread. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You didn't take care of it, and it went without a trace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84620	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84621	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Djakic pointed out some concepts, and I didn't really understand what he was going to say. Let's just say haughtiness. Is haughtiness, for example? when the former government swears to the well-being of the pensioner's working class on a yacht of SDP favorites or, say, crime, I don't understand the same thing. Is it to give hundreds of budget million to the private company Vicor Lenac the same Supreme on the same yacht. And as far as stockpiles are concerned, you don't have to be a colleague of Djakic's, of the 3 members of the supply board, 2 come regularly, here Mr. Pukleš and I there, a whole series of lawsuits that I hope will one day come, and the system of robbery was very, very simple. The fax companies have been assigned wheat to renovate, so you give me wheat, you give us the same amount of wheat back. The companies have disappeared, failed in the moment, the good part unfortunately taken away, stolen by law. The company went bankrupt and nothing to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84622	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84623	Well, here's Mr. Markovanovic, you actually mentioned everything. I'd just like to supplement you. A total of Virovitica, Slatina and Bednja from the stocks of 5 million tonnes of wheat disappeared during the time of the former government from 2000 to 2003 and returned to the peasants of 2004 by decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to help them overcome their crisis, i.e. that deposit they had for the basics of life, for the bread of 2 tonnes, by 4 tons, by 5 tons. This happened in space and with these high-ranking people who acted on duty and at the time, who called this government to be boastful, that it was wasteful, that it had drawn on herself something, etc., while clearly talking about 5 million tons of wheat from stockpiles and deposited wheat in companies that had disappeared untraceable, and today, the crime police are still investigating how greasy it is that the right perpetrators could not be found, but we believe that the additional effort and effort he made will be found by UsCOK and everyone else who reached out for the civil wheat deposited, the one they had for food throughout the year. So I think it's all clear who's talking about what, can and can actually be, they can be freed heads because they were participants in the same unholy work.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84624	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84625	Thank you very much. It is interesting for fellow Djakic that you always use this Assembly speaker in the same way to muddle people out of the context of things, but you forget that you were also the first chief of the business to buy the most expensive BMW in the first week, and the last job you did to repay the debts you created in the utility company of several million kunas and create debts to the INA gas so that almost the entire municipality remained due to that debt of several million kunas without gas. I appreciate you standing up for the peasants and I appreciate you taking care of the wheat that's gone missing in peaks and agricultural goods, and I'll remind you that equally missing wheat from the agricultural good Borik in Pitomaca. The wheat is gone, the owners have lost that wheat, and you have become, by some miracle, the owner of the administrative building of the "Borik" that ended up in bankruptcy. So much for those of us who are black, white, gray, and I don't know what, if we want to go back in time, if we want to muddle, we could probably talk about it for days. What I've been doing as a minister is I'm proud of, especially the fact that 68 thousand people in small and medium-sized enterprises have been employed, that I've launched projects to credit the development of entrepreneurship zones. That everything was ideally probably not. That I made a mistake somewhere I'm sure of it, but I'm sure it was in good interest and what was paid to people in the form of a reward because I had 30% of people less than systematicized and people were doing 50% more than possible capacities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84626	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84627	Mr. Vice President... I can do it without a microphone. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] I've been doing volunteer work, Mr. Pecek, without swearing compensation, using my pension that I've earned from my wounds. The BMW he bought was bought for the same monthly fee your chief had up to that time of four and a half thousand kunas and remained to the Pitsomac Municipality as my gift. I could've bought it myself, set myself a fee of four and a half thousand kuna. To talk about what you did, I was never the owner of the administration building, but I was just the man who wanted to decide that Borik would move on as he is now doing and living in this time as it was then. The wheat from "Borika" didn't disappear, it disappeared under your patronage, I said from the silos of agricultural goods, from agriculture in Virovitica, Slatini and Bednja. That's when you were. About your actions, we can say that you gave some strangely unconditional Municipality of Pitomaca 2 million kunas to an industrial zone, and that they had not even secured land, that 2 million kunas were re-purposed and simply watered down. They're nowhere to be found. No industrial zone, no sewerage in the zone, no water in the zone, no electricity in the zone, no except for a few trucks of stone on the road, nothing else is there and two million kunas went up. They were re-designed into an incubator that smelled like eggs. Here, that's what's left behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84628	Thank you. Here, let's calm down some passion. He will make his contribution to the distinguished representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84629	You're right, Mr. President, Vice President, because in any case, I want to bring this debate down to the ground, because I've had enough of these stories, and I repeat, I don't know how many times here in the Parliament to fly rocks from one side to the other without need. No one here has said a word about what we're going to do with this audit? What about the results of this audit? Every year we get the same story. Mrs. Šima Krasic and her associates make a wonderful report, record everything that needs to be recorded, and it ends there. Determinate irregularities in local self-government units. And you know what they do? They get that report, they put it on their councils, and some people believe or don't say they don't accept their report. They don't accept their report. And let alone they say what they should say, if there was an irregularity, we report it and that means the chief of finance for the malfeasances that were made. And every year like that. Does five ministries work anymore and did the five ministries get parole or not now or in the last government? Does it matter? Does that matter at this point? We're discussing 2005. All the governments messed up, all the mayors and the mayors messed up, but are we going to deal with that kind of situation? And every year you realize that, gentlemen, he's messing up. I don't. I believe that we as a Parliament have, we have established our office, we have established and given it the opportunity to control all of these units from local self-government to institutions and I don't know what not to the state budget. We gave them the obligation to do it for us. And then when they do what we do? We're having a discussion and we're adopting it. Normally we adopt when they always make it beautiful. And fair enough. The question is, what about it, gentlemen? What conclusions will we draw? That report is being adopted. And what's going to happen? Nothing. But nothing at all, ate the donkey wolf. Their work, beautiful, well done but in the field nothing. The taxpayers' money will still go the way they shouldn't. The idea of setting up a parliamentary review committee was a little bit of a discussion, and we were considering that possibility. However, according to our law, according to the Constitution and according to our applicable laws, and even the Revision Act is inconclusive. Even though that is how many countries in Europe work. They function in such a way that when Parliament or Parliament receives a report from its Office for State Audit, the Committee for Audits shall act according to their findings. It means that he's making reports, calling those who have sinned against the law, and that in some way he's going to initiate a procedure that doesn't happen anymore. It means sanctioning the ones that didn't work by law. We probably can't do that. At least from the way we read from our current laws that I have. To do something, however, my colleague Vuljanic and I and my colleague, Lesar, with the help of our colleague, Jakša Marasovic, have come to the idea that the club should propose 3 conclusions. I hope the ruling will accept that, too. The first conclusion that you are proposing is the state audit report. Second conclusion, deliver the report to the State's Attorney's Office for those who received an unfavourable assessment. There are only nine such gentlemen. Not to spread the story, not to ask for the 300 and something they got paroled. But at least let's start with something. And third conclusion, commit the State's Attorney's Office to report within 6 months what the Croatian Parliament has done and what it has established. Here, gentlemen, let's take a little step just for those nine who must have broken the law because that's what they got. Well, at least let's start something this year from a dead end. So that next year, so that we don't reach a conclusion, we'll give it all to the State's Attorney's office. The state's attorney's office is gonna stick it in the drawer like it's always been. No one will ever be sanctioned, but let's take a little step towards this 9 that must have broken the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84630	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Rožić. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, a five-minute debate, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84631	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll try really in three minutes. In addition to all these proposals, the conclusions that will come in writing by counterpart Kapraljevic and only two other attempts have been made. The drug controversy and these 2 billion and 800 that was purchased past the public tender. In the report itself, the state audit stated that the provisions of the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and the accompanying Regulation and the Public Procurement Act did not comply. I also heard Mr. Hebrang's arguments and others explaining why HZZO bought these drugs in this way. And it may be that all arguments are correct. And that really contracted a lower price. But the State Audit Office also calls for the opinion of the procurement office, public procurement and warns us that these two laws are not in line. Who passed both laws? We do. And if we are now warned that two laws deny each other what we must do? One of them changes. Or the Public Procurement Act or the Drug Act. Either it remains a rule of public procurement or contracts, but the rule can't determine the supply of drugs, just the law. The rule is not an act that can go beyond the law. That's our next assignment. I expect the government to make a proposal to amend the law or one or the other and to resolve it that way. And there will be no more dilemmas. No one here will have to defend themselves and no one will attack anyone if we legally determine how we're going to buy drugs. Secondly, 40 million 829 kuna without applying public procurement regulations, page 36 reports. Locate, arrest, process. It's not 40 million or 41 million too much money, but also because of those 40 million kunas that haven't applied practically, that's what's worst that can happen, no public procurement regulation would have to sanction. I don't know who they are, where they're all. They have to. Croatian Hydrometeorological Institute corresponds to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, see their findings. In 2004, they received seven recommendations from which only those for travel orders for official travel are accounted in due time, nothing else. Do we want to or do we have to do an impelation of government work for them? Either the government or someone responsible in the government will react and these people will either change or say, give people a jump, every year shame in parliament. It's the same thing with them all the time. In 2004, and here they are pretending like they're not hearing anything that's being warned. That's my second proposal. He's doing the next one. Every controversy about stock reserves and praises because I don't read other people's speeches but official documents. Let's take off the dilemma. Who, when, what and how. Let the government send a report on the state of the stock reserves to the Parliament, which she had to do four times by law. All the dilemmas are gone. The law obliges the government every year to give the Parliament a report on the state of the stock reserves. When did we discuss him in this term? Never. There's no... behind that, no more outwitting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Report on the table, fourth, fifth, sixth, now has to be three years on him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84632	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84633	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the end in the name of the club, anyway, to support this report. We'd also come up with three proposals. The first is to support the report, the second, that all findings in which there is a suspicion of a criminal offence and forwarded to the State's attorney's office are singled out. And third, that the State's Attorney's Office, within six months, will report to this High House on the findings. Otherwise, as for the results, as far as the results are concerned, I have made an effort to compare the report on the ministries of this 2005 and the previous audit year 2004 and we can confirm very significant progress in the business of all ministries. In short, in a row. The foreign ministry without negative business and last time and now. The finance irregularities from 2004 were removed, there are no operating irregularities in 2005. The economy ministry has a public procurement remark for 2 million kunas for the hygiene maintenance of space but the competition is repeated, so there will be a mistake that administrative nature is corrected. The Ministry of Culture used to have some remarks, this time there are no irregularities in business. The ministry of the sea, tourism, transport and development in accordance with the law. Last time there were irregularities for 4 million and 300,000 kuna, it means improvement. The family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity have no irregularities in business. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has one irregularity and that is that one purchase of 939 thousand kuna went to obtain according to the rules for cheaper purchases of 200 thousand kuna. And that's the only remark. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has 1.6 million computer equipment that does not comply with the Public Procurement Act, the rest of the business is neat. The Department of Justice has a lack of planning, no living space records or no space procurement. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction has no irregularities, last time there were irregularities worth 274 thousand kuna. The Ministry of Health and Social Welfare neither last nor this time has any irregularities like I said in the opening part nor in public procurement. So now I'd like to see the face of those who invented the Shimatza affair. Finally, it should be said that only Croatian radio television has made more failures than all ministries combined. Here's the line. 700 million kunas of public procurement are free from law enforcement and that's fine. And the fact that HZZO isn't free is not right. Furthermore, this Croatian radio-television planned expenditures in turn by 15%. These aren't all ministries together. Furthermore, this Croatian radio-television carried obligations from one year to the next, from 2002 to 2003, from 2003 to 2004 worth more than 25 million kuna. This same Croatian radio-television did not issue accounts for 10 million kunas for renting decoder cards. This same Croatian radio-television did not pay contributions to pension and health in the amount of 7 million 200 thousand 2003 and 7 million 300 000 in 2004. The grant costs of the pluralism fund were miscalculated by cutting him 30 million kuna. Not to mention, a total of 65 million kuna has been thrown under the carpet by the Croatian Radio Television, which is not nearly similar to the ministries which, of course, have incomparably larger budgets. So, in conclusion, we should say that we still have the same criterion for different entities, I think we should thank and congratulate the State Audit, but also the ministries that have so significantly improved their business and brought them into line with the existing laws. And above all, what the government managed to correct in the state budget whose report here is impeccable to all the irregularities it inherited in 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84634	Thank you. This concludes today's session. Tomorrow is the sequel at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda of the proposal to show the mistrust of the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Mr Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84635	We're going to the vote. The vote. So how fast is Slavko having like a hundred feet going. He's good. There's a few of them who are here, they have keys and they haven't checked in. Dear Representative Ćosic. Yeah, yeah. Get involved for a vote, not a debate! Okay. Please quorum. 95 present. So we can vote. Let's go report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2006. Report on audits carried out for 2005. The report on the audits carried out for 2005 is a specific part. What used to be an official secret. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am giving the following conclusion to the vote. A report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2006 is hereby adopted. Second. A report on audits carried out for 2005 is hereby adopted. And a third. A report on audits carried out for 2005 is hereby adopted – a specific part. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84636	Thank you, Mr. President. Since you are proposing a vote on this point, and on our big surprise 24 and a half minutes ago, we also received a proposal for the HDZ Club's conclusions on this topic on which we should vote today, which was tabled past the provisions of Articles 129 and 177. Rules of Procedure, so we can decide how to vote, I'm asking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the club. I am looking for a break so that the club will be made clear about the proposal for the conclusions of the Club of Representatives, which has been submitted in addition to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84637	Okay. You can manifest yourself when the vote comes to these conclusions, so be clear. That's what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84638	We can't show our late apologies because it refers to the conclusions on the acceptance of the State Audit Office Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84639	Yeah, okay. But right now, we're voting on proposals from the working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84640	There are no proposals from the working bodies. No working body has suggested a single conclusion on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84641	Mr. Lesar, a little bit. Peace, please! The working bodies have come to their conclusions. They did. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Therefore, the working bodies have submitted their reports on the work of the State Audit Office and the audits carried out. Well, we can vote on that and think about the rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84642	Mr President, since the proposal for the conclusions of the HDZ Club and the Croatian People's Party also refers to the conclusions cannot be voted on in part on the points of conclusion because both proposals speak of the same thing as proposals from the working bodies. We can't vote three times to accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84643	I can't do this to you. What? Dear Representative Luka Bebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84644	HDZ withdraws its proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84645	Okay. Then when that proposal is withdrawn, there's no reason for a break. Right? Then let's vote on the proposal for a working body's conclusion. The result? 90 for, 3 abstentions. So with that two-thousand, the conclusions are. We still have a proposal for the conclusion of the National Club of Representatives. Please listen carefully. Please listen carefully. These conclusions are, under 1), the proposed reports in the text as proposed by the applicant are accepted. We've already voted that, it's consummated, right. That's what we are. Second, the findings of the audits that received an unfavourable opinion will be referred to the State's attorney's office for further action. Thirdly, it is up to the State Attorney's Office to report within 6 months to the Croatian Parliament on the measures taken in connection with the reports in question. Let's please vote. I beg your pardon, colleague? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84646	On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I am requesting an individual vote at this point in the proposal. There was no indication of the applicant. You don't know the attitude, and I'm asking us to make that clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84647	There's no proposer. Here's the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84648	I suggest these two points, we consume one, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84650	Let's say by voting hand-lifting. To accept that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84651	To accept that, yes. The HDZ Club will accept the proposal's conclusions. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's vote for two and three conclusions. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We can vote. I'll get you a score. The result? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. You see when you get people. With 92 for and 5 abstentions, and very interesting there are also abstentions, very interesting and 4 against the proposed conclusions. And he's against it, too interesting. Okay. That's what we're all about now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84652	To give an opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I give the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament the opinion of the Committee, which was given on the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSP and the Club of Representatives of the HSS in connection with the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, on the occasion of the vote on the withdrawal of the official secret markings with the report on the audits carried out for 2005, a special part. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 73 for, 7 abstentions and 9 against. The president's always right about that committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84653	And we're going to go to the next one, so we'll continue when the quorum is collected to remove the "office secret" sign. Let's go to the - Proposal for a law on confidentiality of information, first reading, P.Z. No. 618 The proposer of the law is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, information, information and media, internal policy and national security and human rights and the rights of national minorities. State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Snjezana Bagic will further explain the proposal. Please, gentlemen and ladies, leave it and come to the assembly so we can vote off the "office secret" sign and proceed with the debate on... Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84654	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the first reading of the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of information, so let me briefly and in essence say something about the reasons why this law is proposed and something about content, or what will be arranged in our legal system by adopting this law. By adopting this law, the new Data Protection Act, together with the law which is next on the agenda, which is the Law on the Information Security System and, together with the recently adopted Act on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia, and shortly before the adoption of the Data Protection Act, is in fact in a systematic and comprehensive way in accordance with European standards and best practice of Europe and other countries, is governed by this truly important and sensitive area of our legal system, of course by other legal systems which, due to their sensitivity, need to be observed with special attention and of course raises great public interest because there is always a question that is being asked on the one hand by the public to have the right to information, and on the other side of data to be protected, which are in their nature, in their own right, including issues of national security. It should be said that in our legal system there is already a law on the confidentiality of information. He was brought in in '96. So we already have a law about 7-8 years old that I dare say, trying to actually settle the issue of confidentiality of data. However, the principles and the way that the law was regulated, we have witnessed it during its application in practice, did not allow it to be applied in the best possible way. They dare say and depreciated in accordance with... in practice, both in the European Union and in the NATO Member States. [[You don't understand.]] For example, the Data Protection Act does not define a security mark for unclassified data, unclassified in the case of state, military or official secrets, does not specify the need to carry out a security verification and certification procedure, nor does it specify the way in which the Heads of the Body are actually required to establish periodically whether these data are kept secret or not, that is, their data, the procedure of their declassification. So these shortcomings of the Data Securitisation Act, the way it determines the confidentiality of data by species, not by degree, the fact that it does not meet the requirements of the EU NATO and making it difficult for us to actually exchange information. The fact that it is not even in line with the Law on the right to access information is all the reasons that have highlighted the need to now propose and adopt a new law on the confidentiality of information as part of the regulation of the entire legal area. As far as newspapers are concerned, so the difference and what is now governed by this law, what is now prescribed by this law and what is regulated, that is, what information is certainly considered secret. However, unlike the current law, which shares first types of classified information such as state, military, then official secret, it now classifies the data according to the degree of secrecy, so according to the new classification, the data levels of secrecy are very secret, secret, confidential and limited. In fact, we have taken over the practice and the way it is regulated in accordance with international documents and recommendations of the European Union. So now we can only speak in degrees of secrecy. Therefore, the transitional and final provisions of this law are now governed by the way in which the current codes of secrecy will be translated, i.e. from that of the Data Securitisation Act in accordance with the provisions of the new law. With regard to access to data which are considered to be classified, i.e. those data which can at all be declared classified, this information applies primarily to state bodies and bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and only to those legal persons, i.e. legal persons and natural persons who, in business with these bodies, state bodies or local and regional (regional) bodies, are able to have access and insight into the data classified by some of the abovementioned degrees of secrecy. This Law also introduces the notion of unclassified data. So these aren't data that are classified, these are unclassified data, and for which it can be noted by some special law... The regulation states that for some reason they are in restricted use, because they represent an official secret. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And unlike then the applicable law, so this law deals with narrow circle, with a narrow segment of data that is considered secret. So these are those who are in, to whom, who are making and forming state bodies or bodies of local and regional self-government, which can endanger national security or for these similar reasons should be declared secret. This Law therefore does not, unlike the current Law, deal with the concepts of business and professional secrecy. Why? Because it is simply not usual to regulate these data which fall within the scope of business, professional relations, good faith in mutual business communication and do not need and are not subject to this Law and are therefore not regulated by it either. They let themselves be governed by the internal rules of these private sectors, and of course they will also take care of our legal system that knows the laws and they apply to the protection of... and industrial ownership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law clearly defines who is considered the owner of the data, that is the body which creates that information and if that body is authorised to classify the data, then the head of that body is the person who carries and determines the way of classification and becomes responsible for its classification and classification and periodic assessment of secrecy. What this Law is is, it is valid for newspapers to be carried out in certain segments depending on the degree of secrecy of the periodic assessment of the confidentiality of these data. The paper is also and will contribute to security with this Act introduces a certificate of assurance of security... which persons in public authorities who determine certain data may have in their work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That verification shall be carried out through the National Security Council Regulation. The way it will be implemented will be prescribed by a special regulation that the Government needs to adopt within a short period of time, we hope after the adoption of this Act. I also note that this Law does not regulate data protection, modality, standards and ways because it is prescribed and proposed in the second law, the Information Security System Act, which is also under discussion in this House and is on the agenda after this point. As regards the supervision itself, which is of particular importance when it comes to such data surveillance of access to classified data in the jurisdiction of the bodies themselves who are the owners of these data and which determine their classification, but inspection of the implementation of this Act and the manner in which an independent body implements it, so beyond those bodies, what the Government is assessing is currently qualified and able to carry out, and that is the Office of the National Security Council. I also note that this Law is complemented by the fact that the Security Information System Act is also complemented by the Information Security System Act and by the Information Access Law and it does not derivate in the outside of these data circles that can be declared secret under this Act those data subject to, which are otherwise public and for which public authorities are obliged to provide always for the Law on the right to access to information. I must also point out that this Law rules out the possibility of certain information being declared secret and declared secret for reasons of concealing a criminal offence, over-exploitation or abuse of authority. This is explicitly prescribed in Article 3 of this proposal for a law that such information cannot be declared classified. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this seems to me to be of brief importance about the content of this Law that the Government proposes to bring in in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84655	Thank you. The committees. Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Honored Committee President Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84656	Dear Mr President, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 88th session held on 20 February 2007 discussed the proposal for a Law on the confidentiality of data and the members of the Committee were familiar with the reasons and interests for which the adoption of the law in question is proposed. The proposer's representative will, as the law under consideration... the area of confidentiality of data through the definition of classified data and the new degrees of confidentiality of data are determined in accordance with modern standards of confidentiality of EU and NATO countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed law introduces a new classification of information to determine degrees of secrecy, very secret, secret, confidential and restricted, and gives up access to confidentiality by type of state secret, official secret, military secret. In addition, the Institute shall be established on the assurance of a security verification certificate to be owned by employees of public authorities for access to classified data. The Committee supported the President-in-Office's view by assessing that this legislative proposal fully prescribes the application of measures and standards for the protection of classified data and provides their necessary legal and practical protection. After the debate was held, the Committee reached the following conclusion by a majority of votes: the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data in the text is adopted as proposed by the Proposer of the Law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84657	Thank you. Any other committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84658	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. First of all, it's quite unfortunate for the Ministry of Justice to defend the proposal for a Privacy Policy when they didn't even participate in it and that's about the fact that we also need to have a person in charge of the security services and that means the whole of this matter. Namely, what do you say about the Proposal for a Law on the Secrecy of Information? The HSP Club cannot support it because of the fact that solutions are now contained in the Proposal for a Law on the Securitisation of Information are undefined, indeterminate, and I can say that it was better to predicate the law that we were considering at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, than this Proposal for the Privacy of Information Act is in the first reading. In fact, it's visible, but obviously at the club, it seems that it was purposely made that the solutions related to the classification and declassification of classified information were deliberately defined indefinitely and unspecified. And then it allows a whole series and a set of various manipulations, and so to say, under the degree of secrecy, it can narrow down everything and everything, but only in the sense that certain things that are according to all the legal solutions both in the modern democratic states of Europe and in the world that would not, nor should they be marked with a certain degree of secrecy. But I'm saying this law deliberately allows it because under the law it's not, the foundations have not been established at all, let's say, how and how some information will be given a degree of secrecy very secret, so let's say for both secret and confidential. In fact, the proposer is always calling for Article 6 so it is possible to give any information with all the confidentiality codes. And then there's a particularly bad solution that in Article 12 where the government is given the possibility of adopting a sublegal regulation, the regulation on how to mark the degree of secrecy of classified data is adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I guess that's where the standards should be said. About the standards. Therefore, the first thing that is important to do is try to give how they have defined what data as such can be considered to be very secretive. Afterwards, give another legal definition which as such can be classified and which can be marked confidentially and which limited. And then the Government needs to precisely specify by the Merit Regulation a group of those data in a limited manner according to the areas. In the area of, say, internal affairs, in the area of defence, in the area of national security. In particular, there is a huge problem, and it will also allow the heads of the body of units of local and regional self-government and there is no provision for a way of declassifying the data and so that the more body has the right to react at any time and to take away the degree of secrecy of any information which is as such not legally defined or not in accordance with the provisions, criteria which the Government will prescribe. That's your basic rule if you want to have the first filter. This means, for example, that the mayor would be either a competent minister who could take away the degree of secrecy of the information set out by, say, the head of local or regional self-government, which he set against the law, against the standards and against the common sense. But he wants to cover up a lot of things like we had a situation and we'll see until the level of secrecy is removed from this report regarding the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of the Interior. They also determine the supply of clothing and equipment as secret. And we know that all these data are exchanged, that it is known within the NATO alliance and within Europe as many soldiers as Croatia has. Therefore,... He can get a uniform and everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is important to go to such solutions that the second-degree body is the one that at some point has the right to react and to declassify an information that is illegal as defined by a certain degree of secrecy. If we don't have it, we'll still have the same situation that's been going on. There are now various and various suggestions that there are some, to introduce the Institute and the Commissioner for Information or we will go to that council, but here it must mainly be in cases where the public's interest is essentially outweighed by the interest that something wants to be determined by the degree of secrecy as such to make it impossible for the public to have access to all this. So, bad solutions are both in terms of determining the classification process and in terms of the data declassification process, they are undefined, indeterminate and they get the impression that it was done on purpose. Now, we come to the part about which I, on behalf of the club HSP and Mr Arlovic, spoke, when, in time, we at the Croatian Parliament ratified security agreements with NATO, or the same agreement with the European Union, and regarding who can access classified data. And then Croatia made one huge mistake, unlike all other states that are members of the NATO Alliance, and that have entered the European Union, because Croatia has made no exception to security checks to the teams of agreements that have character meaning above the law, since they have been ratified by the Croatian Parliament, so it is now trying to exclude this law from the security clearance to obtain a certificate from the security president of the state, the Prime Minister and the President of the Croatian Parliament. In the process of negotiating and adopting these agreements, all other countries used their right to determine a circle of persons who were excluded from it, so they went normally not only to the Prime Minister, the President of the State, the President of the Parliament, but to the ministers, and in some cases to the mayors. For example, the case of Slovakia and the case of other countries that have passed that part. And now we are in a situation that essentially this provision which now says that only the President of the State will be excluded, the Prime Minister and the President of the Croatian Parliament are not in line with the security agreements that the Croatian Parliament has ratified. And that's what I said then, it's only possible to make a constitutional law, because we know that agreements have a character of legal power stronger than the law. Therefore, we cannot now, by law as provided for in this Article in Article 18(2), apply the provisions of this Article to the President of the Republic, the President of the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because in security agreements, all the information we receive by exchange of NATO alliances or from the European Union in order for someone to have a data team to have a security certificate, means passing the security check. But that's how it's supposed to be in that agreement. And that's the part where again we draw attention to our negotiators when they negotiate, and since they travel all over Croatia to see little about the experiences of other countries to us friendly who have passed the whole process. Because now we're in an uninvited position, an inexplicable situation. In particular, on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, none of us could have the right to see any information that comes from this exchange of security either with NATO federal or with the European Union until this security check is passed and neither does President Seks nor President Mesic, nor does President Sanader have the right to do so because the agreement says that security checks must be carried out and that is the highest degree, so this is a detailed security check, given that the President of the State, the Prime Minister, has the right to see all these documents coming in exchange with the NATO Alliance. And at this point, he has no right at all to the president of the state, nor to the Prime Minister, nor to the President of the Croatian Parliament, nor to the defence minister, the interior minister, the chief of staff. And who will be responsible for this schlemper in accepting these agreements? Who made the delegation of the Republic of Croatia when, behold, Mr. Cain and I were together in the NATO alliance where they were just pointing to that part and where they said how and how they did it. It was both Mr Zubovic and Mr Pankretic, Mr Vidovic. Therefore, we obviously do not learn any lessons from the experiences of other friendly states, but we bring the Croatian Parliament before the final act. So, in the end, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I appeal to address this problem by constitutional law in order to comply with our provisions with that agreement, which we have adopted in this way and I suggest that the final legislator realizes that data, classification and declassification must be determined and determined because in this way it will enable those inequitable who want to hide all sorts of illegal sprays of things and it will simply hide it in a simple way to determine the degree of secrecy, let's say, in secret or confidential and thus enable illegal things to be done. Therefore, I think we have enough strength, enough knowledge that these issues in classification and declassification are determined and determined and that what has happened so far is not possible. If something is to be hidden, then a degree of secrecy is to be determined. Therefore, these solutions are not good and Croatia must make this step in the role model for all of us friendly countries that have passed the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84659	Thank you. For the HDZ club, respected representative Kresimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84660	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! In any case, when we talk about the Privacy Act and the Proposal for a Law on the Information Security System, we need a little broader context within which these laws are adopted. Security issues today are definitely one of the most important priorities of the modern world. This security that we are all looking for at all levels of national, regional and global is impossible to achieve without proper reconstruction and promotion of the security and intelligence community not only at national level but also beyond. For all these reasons, especially NATO and also the European Union is paying particular attention to building, standardisation, introducing appropriate national security standards and common international standards. And that is the task that we are facing and these bill proposals in this regard are a step forward in cooperation with relevant international institutions, primarily NATO and the European Union. Today's security scene is significantly different, far more complex and complex than it was during the Cold War, terrorism that poses a common threat to the entire international community is financed through various forms of illegal trade that takes on increasing intensity and without quality security intelligence, without trained professionals employees and also the legislative framework preventative action is almost impossible. And that is why it is very important laws that we are discussing today, given that experience has shown that the laws passed ten years ago do not satisfy in an organisational sense either in terms of classification or in terms of implementation. Certainly when we talk about these laws, then we can discuss some of the worst possible cases that can always happen in case we have the best laws of non-serious, uneducated, irresponsible individuals. Even the best laws cannot protect our common security and therefore what we need to talk much more about when we talk about these laws concerns the education and education of people entering that system and who, by their personal education, can and must contribute to our common security at national level but also through our cooperation within the wider international community. I remember well back in 1994 when we were improving bilateral relations with certain key countries of the international community. I remember an American admiral when he brought me a book and said, "General, this is a key and important book, study it, translate it, behave according to what it says.". This book was called the "Security Program Regulation" what we are talking about today, the high standards that should be respected within the framework of the security-intelligence system so that mutual bilateral cooperation can take place in accordance with the maximum mutual trust and in line with the common security interests of the international community, and this is a problem that we need and we need to address quality. NATO experts' teams that were in the Ministry of Defence last year, who carried out the evaluation of Croatian criteria that Croatia meets according to the so-called "Defence". The PARP programme was given special attention to the construction of our legislative framework, in particular the Privacy Policy. This will happen again in a month and it is very important to see that, on this parliamentary legislative scene, too, organised efforts are being made to establish a legal basis for a more modern security system, procedures and organisational structure that needs to be compatible with what all modern countries today have Western democracies of the European Union and NATO. Because in the event that our organisational structure is significantly different then it is almost impossible to distribute documents and talk to partners who have the same competence and responsibility. Here's a few words about the laws themselves. First of all, it seems to me that the 1996 Act on the Protection of Secret Information has not been specifically stated by a series of solutions taken from the 1980s that are definitely not in line with today's modern standards of secrecy of the European Union and NATO countries and other developed democratic countries, and this has been a sufficient reason and obligation to approach the change of these laws and their standardisation in accordance with the structure of these international organisations. Furthermore, what is not particularly highlighted and it seems to me that it is necessary to highlight the 1996 Data Protection Act, which provides for a way of determining the safeguards under which the heads of the public authorities and authorised officials were able to lay down specific safeguards and to lay down rules on safeguards and regulations relating to the confidentiality of data. What does that mean? This means that by their knowledge or ignorance, by their feelings or lack of feeling, by their professional responsibility or lack of responsibility, individuals have defined protective measures. The following is to be determined here in this document. The maximum number of national authorities in the humane sense has not been qualified to develop safety standards and implement safeguards. This has certainly been a good reason and an important motive for trying to unify and determine one place that defines, checking standards that are related to the confidentiality of data through this legislative framework. The situation we had and the situation that we inherited, as has been said, does not meet NATO and the European Union's requirements for implementing minimum security standards, and in that sense, the Data Securitisation Act accepts international standards in relation to what we previously had. State secret, military secret, three degrees, official secret and so on. In that sense, a simpler classification means both a simpler procedure and probably a minimisation of errors when it comes to misjudges. It's all well and familiar and I don't think there's more to it than that, and it's clearly highlighted in this document at its introduction. The following law, which deserves special attention, refers to information security or to the construction of an information security system. There is certainly more than a good view of what impact new technologies have on our security because today's dominant e-business, e-government, security in the information period imposes and define the appropriate new legislative frameworks that are able to ensure the work of modern and modern government. And that is why it is particularly insistent on the relevant national standards. Appropriate bodies such as the Institute of Information Security and Crypto-protective Technology are introduced and what also requires special attention is the fact that the relevant academic institutions of Croatia such as the Croatian University Account Centre enters into part of this system with their professional, informative expertise can and must be those who will build, guarantee the safety of computer networks on which information is based today not only the exchange of information among key bodies of the Croatian Government. And also in other countries. It's the information system through which key and important decisions are made. Therefore, the CERT, the so-called Computer Emergency Response Team, belongs within the framework of the bill's proposal to really expert, competent institutions. It is therefore more than obvious that the proposals of these laws make a significant step forward to modernise, standardise and shape the security and intelligence system in the Republic of Croatia in the way it is needed and in the way that the international community expects us to do so. In other words, here are the following objectives: a comprehensive and uniform legal framework, an information security system as part of a wider system of national security not only of the Republic of Croatia. A rational and clear division of functional competences between competent authorities and the establishment of central authorities and the establishment of central national authorities for effective coordination and guidance of information security and the development of national information security standards shall be ensured. Internationally legally coordinated access to information security is of utmost importance not only to the security but also to the political objective of the Republic of Croatia. And for all that, the HDZ Club supports the proposals of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84661	Thank you. For the SDP Club, a respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84662	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I will, unlike my colleagues, observe this law from another aspect. So I'm not going to look at him from the point of view of military-political and security because he's not that controversial in that part of me. Since this law, in its second and more important part, actually treats human freedoms or civil rights, and I think that is fundamental rights, it is very important to consider this law very much. Because we define both the quality of life and the quality of democracy in our society in a certain way about the quality of this law and the treatment of the confidentiality of data. Normally, the higher the degree of freedom, the more democracy there is. I'll try to say it like this. So this law, in a certain way, restricts civil rights to access information. And a fundamental question arises as to how power or democratic control can be controlled in a democratic society if it is not available, unless there is information to ensure that control is carried out. From that aspect, it seems to me that this law can be very dangerous. You have heard here several exhibitors that the basic argument is about this law, in fact, that it is written in accordance with both European experience and European standards. It's right in the important part or in the large part of the provisions of these laws. But the promoter forgot to mention one of the following facts, which is that all such laws, such solutions, also carry certain insurances for possible abuses. So, what's this about? The thing is, this model we're discussing here today is a modified German-Slovenian model to call it that. And let's say in one part he's fine. However, the promoter forgets on purpose that there is therefore an independent body in these systems and systems that controls possible abuses. So, he's doing surveillance. I will remind this House that the government sent this bill somewhere early last year into the procedure, and then in March 2006 it withdrew. Having in mind then at the SDP Club that this type of law is going we have decided therefore to take a full European standard and we have referred to the procedure of the Law on Commissioner for Information. As the law we are now discussing was withdrawn, only this Commissioner's law as a proposal from the SDP remained, and it was rejected by both the proposings and the parliamentary majority in the 11th month. So it's obvious that it doesn't want to be built in whole, so I call it the pro-European system. And that's the basic reason why the SDP Club won't support even in the first reading of this law, because we don't see the possibility of insurance, insurance as you want possible abuses. I just see here my next chance and I'm surprised the promoter didn't take advantage of it, and that's the problem with security checks. He who carefully reads this law will see that he deals largely with the issue of security checks. It's that article that tells you about the certificate. We've recently had some affairs, half affairs, an affair with a civil society who can work, who can do checks, how to do so, etc. etc. In fact, with this law, we are now in one situation that the security-intelligence system, which is my assessment, will have to carry out some six, seven thousand checks at the level of the first year. Why? Because when you take the whole thing, so the entire state apparatus, the entire unit of local self-government, so all the bodies of public authorities will be about thousands of people who will be in touch with these documents. Take just as logical as it is to the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, etc. etc. And that's kind of acceptable. But the question is that for the head of a local self-government unit who under this law can also declare a document a secret or restricted is actually going to be checked. So it seems necessary that we should basically change the approach of this law, which is that the secret and possibility of classification is not a rule, but an exception. You, when you read this law, are actually leaving a broad possibility in public authorities, in bodies with public powers that can actually be declared a secret. And therefore, I think it was good that the motionor had referred this law to the procedure, together with the Security Verification Act, which was announced. Because we haven't settled the dispute yet whether the regulation that comes out of the old law is valid or not. Let's just say she's not worth it to me. And so, we already have one longer period of air-empty space. Therefore, I am going back to this famous Article 9 which speaks of this possibility that any head of the public authority body and bodies with public authority may, therefore, make some kind of document that may restrict it in action a secret. What does that mean? This means that the head of a municipality or the head of a municipality may have any document, since there is no criteria to declare it a secret because it is his assessment that it makes it difficult for him to have the work of an organ, or body at his head. And I therefore hold, that it would be necessary for the Government not to be in sublegal acts that will bear the classification, but actually in sublegal acts or perhaps in other reading to make two registers or at least two types of criteria, which is that the level, form and content of documents that can be classified must be established. Let's just say, it can't, it's inadmissible that some of the items are being purchased publicly are cars or cameras, or if you want to sell some land, you declare it a secret. This is inadmissible and should be written in the law or in the accompanying document of the law. Because if you don't make that register of documents that can carry that content, that's the label I think we're going to get into a situation that de facto we're going to put a good part out of force of the law on the right to access information. Also, according to that register or list or criteria, as you wish, I think the whole story should follow both the list and the register of persons, leaders, officials as you will who can declare something called either confidential or limited, etc. Because I'm saying, I'm warning you, it's possible that this kind of approach that we're being proposed here will significantly violate democratic standards. And something else that's really important. It's a matter of surveillance. So here you have, in that I don't know what article there says that surveillance is doing or that it's going to be done by the National Security Council Office. Can you imagine how the body or how much the body must be to be able to monitor the whole story? I don't know how many 20 or 30 people are in that office right now. I think there should be several hundred of them. So, if this law goes in this form and this office has this jurisdiction, at least a hundred people will have to be admitted who will have to control the possible abuses and classifications of these documents, but also that will have to give consent to how much I understood the spirit of the law to remove certain restrictions, or classifications. So I think it's inadmissible that in this way, in fact, the National Security Council Office is not prepared to put itself in a position to monitor something that I don't think will be able to do in the next year, two days, because it needs to be teamed up, it really needs to be trained to actually do that surveillance. And I am going back to maybe the essence of the problem, which is what I have already indicated, what the Slovenians have and what the Germans have, but in some form and other European Union countries, and not only the European Union countries, which is the fuse that should have sent a clear message to the Croatian public that it will not be possible to abuse, that it will not be possible to enforce the provisions of this law. So it's about having to form an independent body. I wouldn't be going back to the proceedings right now, the possibility of a complaint to the Administrative Court, we know how long the administrative procedure takes and how late it all gets together on the agenda. I would therefore ask that the legislators, and the parliamentary majority, if we already swear on the European standards and reach the countries that make the European Union think about being activated, do not have to be the proposal that I went with on behalf of the SDP club, it may be some other form to go with this independent body that will perform and be able to control that there are no possible abuses. I think that model was on the trail of this model and the type of law, because it too relied on a German-Slovenian model, which is therefore an independent body that would be in a situation that depends neither on the executive nor on the legislative authority, except that it chooses a term of 5 years would actually have the authority to bring and evaluate documents, i.e. documents and behaviour of the body of the public authority, or their leaders in terms of putting a certain type of classification. And in the end, I'd like to ask one more thing. In view of the fact that there is a national security story at the beginning of the law whether it is possible to mention the president of the state from the story, the Prime Minister and the president of the parliament are not also mentioned by MPs. As far as I know, MPs are elected to this House, MPs, or at least in front of MPs, there should be no secret from limited to very secret. However, I think that this should be a little bit different, i.e. that it should actually, if it is already going to be with that formulation, also include the representatives of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84663	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84664	Well, let me say, what's said is that it's going to take 100 new people to monitor within the National Security Council office is simply not true. But by classification as proposing this law, instead of existing state, military and business secrets, it will significantly reduce the number of classified data through national security standards. Therefore, the scope of the job, greater quality, greater efficiency, less data, less employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84665	Thank you. HNS representative club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84666	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, what's good in this law is to coordinate these degrees of data secrecy with some standards that appear in the world and that we want to accept. What's wrong is that this law, by one move, actually puts out of force the Information Access Act. What information will you be able to obtain in the future? Well, to which the head of the state office or the office of local self-government or any other local leader tells you you can come. If he says that this data is a limited citizen, that information cannot be obtained. So I cannot accept that it is true that the amount of limited classified and classified data will be reduced. She'll increase. This law simultaneously offends all Croatian citizens and their common senses. Because he assumes they'll believe the situation is different. In fact, the acceptance of European standards in a complete text like this assumes that we have already done some things. We're not in any legal act, and we didn't want to protect whistles. The whistles that happen to them we see mostly get hurt, get headed up, be right, be right, it doesn't matter. The civil courage that exists in such an amateur form today will be put out of force by this law. So far, the affairs have been leaking. They've been leaking affairs from Bechtel to Imostroy, to Brodosplit. The data's leaked out. The government always wondered how the data leaked out. They leaked because there are brave people in the government's services who are upset that things happen the way they do. However, this law prevents the leak of the affair. What's going on with the affairs? The carpet is rising and the affairs are being cleaned under the carpet, under the carpet of secret, confidential, limited and affair are actually gone. Because, of course, such a leak of the affair can hurt and harm the interests of the state. But not leaks, damage to the affair. Now, let's remove this damage to the state's interests, compose a law like this that allows the carpet to rise and make things under the carpet. Citizens have the right to know this is one of the passwords that is often heard by this Parliament. And now we say citizens have a right to know. Yeah, sure, but what we're gonna let them know. What we're about to say is not for you to know, so you won't know. So citizens will have the right to know limited information. The problem is not in the level of secrecy. The problem is who determines this level of secrecy, who even determines the fact that some data is not public. They are determined by the owner of the data according to the provisions of this law, so the one who created these facts, the information. The owner of the data, of course, doesn't want the information that can go to harm him about something he's done wrong, what he's done wrong and going out. Of course, such data will be declared by the data owner at least limited, which is perfectly sufficient for the level of local self-government. The data is limited, it won't come out and there's no more local affairs. Clearly, there is a draft law that lacks a hierarchical order in which a higher one could undo a decision on the secret of the lower one. It's just not possible now. The law prescribes the need to review the confidentiality of data, however it does not say that some body, an independent body hierarchically superior to the one who creates the data can tell if these data are not secret, it is a waste. If your intentions were gone, it would be another fact. This is one of the laws that has carrots again, but no beatings. There are no criminal provisions. Penalties for those who classify data that should not be classified. So for those who intend to hide the data from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The question of the certificate is, in this way, how this law proposes it is also questionable. The question of legitimacy arises, and we are here, which is where we found ourselves. So just in case 20 thousand citizens or 25 or 15 voted for whom, for one of us. So that's the legitimacy we've met here. I absolutely refuse to have that legitimacy checked by Mr. Karamarko and his team. So Mr. Karamarko and his team have no right to review that legitimacy and do not have the right to assess in my opinion what information may come to me. If the information is classified, I ask you nicely if this law is accepted, that you do not send it to me. I don't want to see the secret information because I don't want to, and I won't let Mr. Karamarko check me for any reason. So what happens if someone violates the provisions of this law and classifies some information as confidential, as limited, etc.? There's nothing going on except to be told you're ashamed of yourself, you shouldn't have done that. A law that treats the fundamental human right, the right to information, I don't think it deserves the support of this Parliament. Everything in everything obviously needs to be done this kind of law, but not this way. The law, as it is proposed here, engulfs fundamental human rights, restricts them where they should not be restricted and offers us no mechanisms to get out of it. The Croatian People's Party will therefore not support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84667	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr... And we have one correction, I'm sorry, Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84668	So I'm correcting my colleague Vuljanic's incorrect allegations that he will not allow Mr Karamarko to check him for a certificate. Well, that's what you were supposed to say when we ratified the security agreement with the NATO Alliance and the European Union. Only we and Mr. Arlovic were against it, too late you remembered it. If you were against it then, and if there was an exclusion then you'd have the right to say it, and this is how you voted for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84669	Thank you. It's time for the HSS Club and Mr. Representative Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84670	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, every debate about this matter challenges but also creates a possibility for different concepts and interpretations of what is the subject of this law. In fact, this is probably the case, since today there is a fully-expanded view that security policy and everything that falls within the security aspects of policy naturally falls within the scope of the executive authority. While there is also one belief and it is also very present in Croatia, that Parliament is less suitable to deal with these issues, and even if it is less appropriate to perform its basic role and tasks, which is the supervision of the security sector in its broadest form. Of course, if we want to demystify or create a new environment, then it is necessary to debate very clearly very openly and very responsibly when it comes to those segments that form in nature a common security policy. Of course, the proposal of the Data Securitisation Act is touched in many ways by the overall security policies of a country, but in a certain way it also touches the most important elements on which a country is valued whether it is truly democratic and whether the institutions of that system, this society, are democratic and to what extent they are democratic. I will use one of the words the former French prime minister said when he said the war was a far too serious question to confide in the military authorities. Of course, with the funnyness of that saying in some way, I would say that this is exactly what we all need to be reminded of, that the representatives of the people in democracy represent the supreme power. So that's Parliament. Representatives of every nation in democracy are called parliamentary power, and all other forms of state government must and should be supervised by the central state government. Thus, and not only when it comes to this bill but also otherwise, I think it is evidence of the correctness of this act. Of course, the Data Secrecy Act has two fundamental objectives. The first goal is to prove that each hairline must be fully transparent and responsible for the information it has reached, to serve or to have access to that data in any way. Another level to be achieved by the Data Securitisation Act, in an appropriate way, by not mixing pears and apples, that the package of these institutions introduced by this Act does not contain what is in the nature of the purpose of fighting it. Therefore, I would like to specify precisely and precisely what this should be about us at the HSS club very precisely and clearly and in accordance with the international nomenclature on what is meant by so-called. the primary activity with regard to the protection of the confidentiality of data. In order to avoid confusion, so as not to mix pears and apples again, and therefore, it is good and this Law must be very precise in the second reading, what are the objects of attention to which this bill is directed. This is primarily about spying, sabotage and subversion, terrorism, political, ethnic and religious extremism, organised crime, the production and smuggling of narcotics, counterfeiting and money laundering, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and illegal migration. So that's not public procurement in any case. These are not in any way the functions in which public authorities are dealing with their citizens. In any case, these are not issues that either at local or state level face the question that they want to protect their data and information for themselves alone. In any case, this is not the information based on which a political rival could be hit hard in God's election year. This is not the information that will be used by the excessive bureaucratic apparatus of the Republic of Croatia to further strengthen its desire to become one of the main tissues of this society. Therefore, it is very important to talk about the content of what this Law needs to be regulated. Of course I will agree with all those who have sought and who believe that this bill should not be in accordance with the Law on the right to access information. Of course, one law must not be able to stop one who is already in force and we at the HSS Club believe that this period between the first and second readings should be used to clearly, precisely and precisely specify not only the objects which are the subject of the contents of this Law but the ways and measures of conduct that, here, I join all colleagues who have already said that Article 18 should be reorganised that what I was talking about is really what the question of the representatives of the people, meaning that our MPs can not be brought under suspicion, but cannot be brought under the imperative of a security check, i.e. to reflect on the form that representatives of the peoples of the parliamentary bodies are properly represented when it comes to and the certificate in which I think that way. I think that Pero was talking about the bill's predication when this was actually in line with me thinking the norms of modern societies and when certain details of the subject-matter of the law were precisely stated, because there is no reason for me and there is no primary political interest in anyone, including the ruling coalition, that when it comes to such a bill on which the state is founded. So we don't even have a small number of cases where because of the complete unprofessionality of any policy, whether the media, or any society of the total of those positions that we've been building in a security position for years because those positions have been building for years. If you want to have adequate devices that provide information that is of vital interest to the economy, to society, to the safety of this society, then such things have been built for years. Unfortunately, they are being destroyed by reckless actions, by revealing those participants who have transformed their lives to function as a security apparatus and this society. Therefore, the protection of these resources, which are almost non-renewable because their activation requires, above all, a lot of effort, work, years, but it is about human destiny. Therefore, we must establish that part of the security aspect, and therefore this Law simply must not suffer from any elements that will involve day-to-day policy. We, therefore, also at the HSS Club, believe that this final bill is necessary very seriously for the government to consider all the proposals that have been made, all those reserves that have been made not to lead to the law not being passed, but rather for all of us to pass together a law that will carry out our basic tasks and functions fully, and not only will it not harm civil human rights, not only will it not reduce the level of democracy, but it must, moreover, restore the originality of control to the one to whom it belongs in nature, which is this Parliament. And all the legislation of the European Union dealing with these issues has just come from strengthening parliamentary supervision, and I am, in effect, suddenly repeating one such position that, in the context of this law, parliamentary oversight and strengthening Parliament's powers, strengthening institutions that operate through Parliament is, in fact, the most important part that we need to work out. Because if we only talk in principle from this Bill proposal, unless we get very clear answers to those remarks that are justified because no one thinks, even though I haven't heard, that there is no need for a proposal for a law on the secrecy of data, that it is not necessary to comply with the practice of the European Union. Because you see, I think that we do not bring this law exclusively because we are approaching the European Union, which we want to be close to NATO standards in security and military doctrine, but above all from the simple fact that international terrorism, migration, smuggling, money laundering is something that is around us. Therefore, the protection of society cannot be carried out autonomously in terms of Croatia cannot be an island if it wants to defend itself against these general challenges. Only by harmonising an international network that must be established naturally through legal bases can create an effective system that will guarantee both safety and stability and resilience to the potential significant influences that can be inherited or can be achieved through the various challenges in which the world is located. So we're primarily doing this for us. And this must not have a daily political dialogue in terms of a negative context. But the criticism that has been addressed, I think, will give the Government, the Proposer, enough reason to have one serious debate again, and I would suggest that, within the framework of the home Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, that this should be reconsidered in the context of those preconditions that existed and which I agree, were more valuable in this matter and were on a good track. And this law should not be afraid of any observations of civil society when it comes to the fundamental protection of this society, this country, when the fight against terrorism, the fight against all those threats that are today in the modern world rule, when it comes to protection against these evils, then of course the law must be completely clear, decided, determined and applicable. But the post of oversight of all processes in the common security policy of colleagues and colleagues, can, should and should be led exclusively by representatives of the people and that is this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84671	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Ms. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. At 12 and 23, it's been 10 minutes or it'll pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84672	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Your Honor, I must first express disdain in the way we are discussing today and how it is actually included in the agenda. Let us remember that this item of the agenda is on the agenda Friday afternoon and that, apart from the Committee on National Security, we have no opinion on any other committee. We see that the Committee on Information, Information and Media did not make a decision because they did not have opinions. There were three votes for and four abstentions. President Shakespeare had previously read that the Human Rights Committee was considering the same point that was not true. We have today's Committee not until 13:30. As far as the IDS club is concerned, we cannot support a bill like this because a modern state cannot have such restrictions. This law should be developed up to a small detail, to a point and a hill of slop is made and the plane shows the desire to be able to hide data of any kind as if we were going back to the time when everything was strictly pom. If we want to be a modern society, we want to go to the European Union, we need to be a transparent society, have transparency of work, the public of work. And most of all, it should show how taxpayers' money is spent, which the government actually wants to hide from its own citizens, who chose them and brought them to power. Our main objective of this debate would have to be how much it contributes to the development of civil society in terms of availability and information to the public and whether it is of public interest or is this law all limited? Simplified do we make this legal proposal stronger 'let's say conditionally to the police state? It should certainly be said that units of local self-government did not require such powers and any secrecy of information. I think he's getting them into something they don't want. This law introduces a small door to the intelligence community in the first place. They'll issue certificates. So they'll control us. And it looks like it's going to become a very lucrative job. Instead of dealing with the serious business they're there for and for which they're paid. On the other hand, the question also arises whether they have the legitimacy to control us, because we know that they are employed in that community without competition? We've already heard a few controversial solutions here. I'll look back on only one thing I think is most important. And this is that there are no mechanisms for the control of law enforcement, except for inspection of the classification and declassification of data which should be implemented by the Office of the National Security Council under the proposal of the law. There are no bodies that would check data classification decisions, ensure a balance between secrecy or security and public control or that would protect public interest and citizens' right to access information. This proposal provides for the possibility that the data owner, when it is in the public interest of another body, individual or for scientific purposes, must consider an appropriate request and, if there is no threat defined in Articles 6l, 7 8 and 9 of this Act, is obliged to take a decision to remove the degree of secrecy of the data, i.e. it is obliged to release the data protection person. However, the solution offered is questionable because a test of public interest is carried out by the same body which has declared some information a secret. So that would be Kadiya suing you, Kadiya judging you. A far better solution would be if this examination of the public interest were carried out by an independent body. The associations suggest that this problem be resolved through amendments to the Law on the right to access information which would allow the institution of the Commissioner for Information to be introduced. They also believe that secrecy is an exception, not a rule, and that an independent body educates citizens and state bodies, intervenes between them and controls the implementation of laws and public interest. It is also foreseen that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopts a Regulation on the way of identifying the degree of secrecy of classified data and the content and method of keeping records of established insights and the handling of classified data. The same national authorities, bodies of units of local and regional self-government and legal persons with public authority, with the prior consent of the Office of the National Security Council, shall adopt a Regulation laying down criteria for determining the degree of secrecy. It is not clear from all of this whether these regulations are public or secret rules. We also believe that the basic criteria for determining the level of public should be regulated legally as should the issue of records of classified data through a single archive or register. Why am I saying that? I would like to remind you that in 2004, we had a negative experience in the case of Helena Puljiz when the anti-intelligence agency acted in her case and one of the conclusions of the Committee on Human Rights session was to conclude that it was necessary to consider the problems of harmonising sublegal acts because we as advocates were looking for a rule of intelligence community to see which they were acting and we as advocates couldn't get it. Therefore, from 2004 until today, around regulations, regulations, various other acts have achieved nothing and I think that everything on such a delicate subject should be put into legal frameworks and have as few regulations and regulations as possible. Because if such a law goes through this law, more than 2,000 500 people in Croatia will be able to declare secrets at both national and local level. So, from the mayor, the president of the council, various other leaders. I think that just confirms what I said at the beginning that the intelligence community will only have work to do to issue a certificate to those people who should then declare something secret or not. And therefore, if this bill doesn't radically change until the second reading of IDS, it can't support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84673	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84674	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This law is short and it is also his basic fault. Just because he's short, he's inconclusive, general and vague. His other characteristics didn't go well on the boards. Only three members of the Committee voted in favour of this law in the Information Committee, and thus the law could be rejected on that committee. The state must protect its secrets, that's clear. But we're asking the question what are secrets. For the first three degrees, a very secret, secret and confidential law provides a certain solution in its Article 5. These are data from the field of national security, defence, foreign affairs, reconnaissance and investigation of criminal offences as well as data of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia in the fields of science, research, technology, economy and finance. It is also known who can mark or give this degree of secrecy for the first three degrees. It's also settled in law. They are the President of the Republic, the Parliament, the Government, the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, the Head of the Body of the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic and that is more or less logical. But then we get to the fourth degree, to a degree limited. There is no definition of what can be declared a secret or what this limited approach can be given. These are certainly not only data from these areas of national security and foreign defence but from practically all life in any area. And who may place that code of secrecy limitedly states Article 13(3). "I can also designate the heads of the body of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and legal persons with public authority.". So, in other words, the municipal commissioners can do so. So now I'm asking you what needs municipal chiefs have to produce secret documents of any degree of secrecy. What secret documents are these? Why do they make them? Since they're making them? Unless the intention, the purpose of such a bill is that such local self-government leaders are allowed to actually play the law on access to the right of information which says in its Article 8 "The public authorities will deny access to the right of information if the information is legally or on the basis of the criteria laid down by law declared by some kind of secret."but then citizens will no longer have the right to come to any information because everyone will be able to use this legal possibility to determine this fourth degree limited and to deny access to information. Look, one thing is when local self-government leaders come into possession of some classified document, for example, in a situation of immediate war danger, they have to organise civil services on some kind of war schedule and determine how they must deal with such classified data, that's one thing. But it's a whole other thing when they're given the opportunity to produce secret documents. This provision also extends to bodies with public authority. There's a lot of them. Now, if this mark is to be classified as information or data on the sale of land, on public procurement, on other things that have nothing to do with the defence of the country, with national security, on the fight against crime which can only have to do with the illegal behaviour of those leaders and on some of their needs or desire to do something under the grains of the public. And we should now make it possible for them by law. That's certainly not good. But not just that. Not only do they now have the right to produce these classified documents, and one of the classified documents, one type of classified document is also a document with a label limited, but Article 2 of the Law also mentions unclassified data and defines it as a data without a specified degree of secrecy. So he's not very secret, not secret, not confidential, nothing. He doesn't have any secret mark. But for which the law does not say which or other regulations, there is no indication of any restrictions on use only for official purposes. So it would be translated into Croatian into some kind of official secret by not further elaborated in the law. It is not known who may produce such information, nor who may give it the label of an unclassified document, an unclassified data, but which is still subject to a restriction of use which, therefore, the public could not come again. This in other words means that according to this bill, there is no more document that anyone in this country, the one that produces it, could not hide from the public under this law. We don't need the right to access information. If that is the case, it would be fair, together with this proposal, to propose a law on the abolition of the right to access information. Because this law is whether the Law on the Secrecy of Information in this form is completely pointless and unnecessary. There is no more information nor can there be one that could not be hidden from the public under this law. The solution could be the introduction of an information commissioner who would approve or not approve of the classification of documents, at least at this lower level. Well, maybe not to the president of the Republic who will either classify the Prime Minister, but at least at this lower level. But such a proposal was rejected, surveillance. The Grand Office of the National Security Council has 500, about 550 units of local self-government, so that each day they produce one such document, so who will control them. The ones from the National Security Council Office. When do they get to do that? This surveillance provision is formal. They can't do that if it's such a large number of authorisations to manufacture classified documents. They can't control them. Abuse of secrecy is present in Croatia. That's the problem. There must be secrecy for some documents, but abuse must not be allowed. So, for example, the MUP gets cameras without a public tender, and it declares it a secret. And the public can't know why they bought cameras without lenses that don't use anything, they're standing there in a warehouse because it's a secret. It is a public procurement procedure, i.e. a violation of the Public Procurement Act. When will this House be discussed? When we get the report in two or three years. It's not us, it's some other call. When the minister, when he forgets that the interior minister was Kirin and if I doubt that he will forget it in view of what appears on the portals, Minister Kirin will remain unforgettable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84675	Thank you very much. I was just surprised it wasn't going to be. Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84676	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, “Transparence International” called this bill. If it is adopted in the Croatian Parliament, it is likely that it will, in the mood of the majority, make us a small country for large secrets under this law. In fact, there is a paradox going on in Croatia. Whatever's secret and what needs to be a secret becomes public. It's usually public. Even more details come out in public and vice versa. What must be a secret is public. And what must be the public interest of citizens, which is, as a rule, a secret, and now with such a bill of law, we want to legalise this practice. It's very dangerous. That's why fellow Members of the Parliament majority, this is a law that is dangerous for all of us here or for most of us or for minorities. He's dangerous from a citizen's point of view. We must consider this bill from the level, i.e. from the starting point of civil relations against the powers of the state. And otherwise, what is the relationship of today's man, our citizen to the state? Is that a relationship of trust? This is a very dangerous law, a very dangerous law, and otherwise something that is necessary for every country to exist and such services in Croatia are, even before Croatia of course, hated but that degree of hatred has not been reduced in free Croatia. In fact, and on the contrary. How is it possible that some of the information that is secret, which should be secret and serve such services, should be performed either alone or with the help of repressive bodies. But no, it's not the point, it's the kind of data that doesn't seem to be interesting for the subject at all, but they're interesting for the differentiation of a particular person. They come out in public. It is something very, very dangerous and harmful from the point of view of fundamental human rights and it is well-warned by the President of the “Transparence International” of Croatia, Zorislav Petrovic, if there is a legalisation of such a proposal, then we will return that attitude to the state by the power of the state several decades ago. Not for a few years. I don't know if you are, and now it's a question of even that concept whether it's gotten lost or whether this is exactly what you wanted. A whole series of recent situations has turned the public on again. And they must then be a reminder to the promoter that such things when it comes to such a legal normative, therefore with a lot of caution, with a lot of sensitivity and delicacy approach but not exactly the kind of conditions that have excited and upset the Croatian public now we want it to be mutilated. The bill promoter even believes that the data available to these bodies is property, please, property of these bodies. Such data are citizens' property, but certain bodies manage such data. But just as our people say, "It will not be language but law," so it is explained here in the bill and it is said, "This law recognises the data owner." So it is not the state who owns that data. The owner is a citizen. And it's already been mentioned here, so what's the law on access to information anyway? He's so disabling not only in practice but now with a proposal like this. In fact, the intensity is a fact that in all democratic countries secret data is an exception, and the right to access information under a parole: "Citizens have the right to know" is a rule. With this bill, we're turning the exception into a rule and the rule into an exception. And it's also something that's very, very dangerous. 4 degrees of data classification, i.e. that expression of data classification, working on some information that is classified. You don't need to create mystics in terms of something that shouldn't be mystics. So only the body and now we see with this kind of legal proposal, which is all given such one possibility here has already been particularly apostropheeded that even one can do so by an officer. By all means. If that is the case and someone has to determine the secrecy of any type of level 1 to 4 then there should be a body, for the first time, a body that would protect the public's interest should be introduced here. So there's an institute, a test of public interest. But it's just an institute for naives. Because whoever's conducting a test of public interest. That same body that determines whether something will be secret or what degree? It's hard to imagine a worse and more dangerous legal proposal. And what's the legal proposal anyway? Perhaps then he should give up any regulation and give himself up to the mercy or mercy of these services that have been celebrated. And when will these services finally deal with what citizens pay them for, expensive and overpriced? It is often said here: "In public there are ministers, officials, parliamentary representatives and their salaries". What are the salaries of these officials, and what do they serve and whom do they serve? They serve for dirty accounts either within a particular party or for each other's account. And they never responded to anyone. And when they are invited to order and based on some laxative and fragile provisions, of course, that the control system has not been established at all, and the practice becomes even less determined. So no rules have been broken. I think we should no matter what political option is in power, who is in opposition, who is in position, in position, take this problem seriously. These are the possibilities of major abuses. The damage these services produce is huge, and the question is when are these services and what is their concrete work? How many companies are being investigated, where they come to us in Croatia, such or such capital. That's where they should serve. And dangers, therefore, of national interest, it's a national interest. Our safety. First of all, property security. Because when she's threatened, all the rights are compromised. But no. These services seem to be, and that's the way it looks and the attitude that's very dangerous and the pronoun, the government that... That what until yesterday was a practice now, that's what I can do by law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once again, I appeal to all of us here, to all of us to respect the comments of the associations and "Gong" and "Transparency International" that warn about these dangers. It's not danger anymore, it's something, it's reality now. So not some abstract danger that would threaten us but very specific things to seriously imagine and reject this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84677	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by a respected representative of Ples.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84678	My colleague has repeated several times: "This is a dangerous, dangerous, dangerous law." I think it is incorrect because none of us sitting in this House and passing laws are here to pass any dangerous laws, and if we pass some law that is not in the first reading like this one, there is a possibility that he can be corrected but certainly not that he is dangerous in the way that you wanted to show it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84679	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84680	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, colleagues of Ingrid Anticevic. The security services of the Republic of Croatia are doing their job by law and do not do dirty work. We would work fairly if in the security services of the Republic of Croatia the people proposed or proposed by your party were those. You've been proving that in all the debates, especially in the last few days. Security services do their job only unfortunately some things and some things can be reached by SDP representatives and these documents should at least be public by the given time. So I will ask you how the correspondence between Interpol and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia about the shipyard Split came into the hands of counterpart Marijan Jurjevic. Do you have a good experience based on your predecessors, how you did 50 years of UDBA and KOS, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84681	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84682	My colleagues, the dangers of this law, that is, this bill of law, I see in the fact that I repeat what should be a secret becomes public, that is, what should be the subject of the interest of these services of their interrogation, not the subject of dealing to journalists in order not to investigate, but to disabling or embarrassing a particular person. That's it, that's the biggest problem. Because no one asked what certain services had done for some information except to deliver it to the press, and then they did nothing. And what conclusion can you have than the one I said in my debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84683	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Vice-President of the House, Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84684	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There are a whole series of legal arguments that need to be passed by this and the next law that we're going to discuss. From harmonising them with the agreements we have agreed with the European Union to the issue of, for example, the obligation referred to in Article 4(4). The law on the right to access information, meaning with a special law, may restrict access to information to compliance with the Constitution and with the entire system of intelligence and security services. However, I must say that such a proposal for a law in the context of which we have received is not possible to support, and in fact, it would be good to conduct a general debate on these two drafts of the law or to treat this debate as a general debate and to ask that these laws be processed and prepared for first reading again. Why? Because their doubts are their compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Because, among other things, they are not in line with the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and because, among other things, it is quite clear that they give or create new centres of absolute alienated power without parliamentary control and without public control and therefore without civil and without parliamentary control and supervision. And of course it can be extremely dangerous. It's not a problem if it can turn into a so-called. Police service, the state, but it's actually a question that secret services or those who determine secrecy will have too much power and responsibility. So let's take the turn. First of all, we have, first of all, a problem that is self-intentional at first sight. It's a matter of talking about ownership of information. It's not just a notional thing. Unfortunately, he also expressed the psychological consciousness of those who wrote this bill, and apparently it wasn't written by the Ministry of Justice, but those who actually collected and controlled this information wrote and treated it as property. This is completely contrary to the Law on Access to Information which speaks of the possession, availability and supervision of information held by public authorities. Because of course that information cannot have ownership status and no one can treat it as property. The second thing that is important here is that the law on access to the right of information itself says that the exclusive right to access information can be limited in the case in a manner prescribed by law. However, this Data Securitisation Act does not restrict, and at least it does not comply with Article 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which clearly states: "Freedom and rights can only be limited by law to protect the freedoms and rights of other people, legal order, public morality and health.". Dear colleagues, in this case, it wasn't done. In fact, the proportionality or proportionality of the restrictions on access to information in relation to such values protected by the Constitution has not been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The constitution states: "Everyone has the right to send representations and complaints, to make proposals to state and other public authorities and to get an answer from them.". This answer also contains information about the issue and the problem the citizen is looking for. It is impossible to declare all these issues either in secret or in secret, at the same time or in place, and at the same time have such a provision in the Constitution and that a citizen cannot get certain rights. We need to make this part quite clear and we need to be very precise and we need to determine proportionality on one hand and the possibility that if such information is matched to which citizen or other legal entity, I will not show another constitutional-legal entity, can file a complaint, run a dispute and protect my... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution says, quote, "Censorship is forbidden. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Journalists have the right to free reporting and access information.". Dear colleagues and colleagues are asked how access to such information can be restricted if it is limited. Only in relation to those questions that allow the Constitution, no one else. And that is why it is quite clear that this segment needs to be arranged and agreed on. The sixth, it is totally inadmissible to make such a broad regulation based on what it can all relate to the secrecy of the data. For example, it is stated by the Constitution of the established organisation of the Republic of Croatia and these are the freedoms set out in Article 3, I will quote: "Freedom and equality, national equality, gender equality, peace, social justice, respect for human rights, integrity of ownership, nature conservation and human environment, rule of law, democratic multilateral system are the highest values of constitutional order...", and here it says: "... The Constitution of the established organisation of the Republic of Croatia.". Of course it still needs to be added to the government. My colleagues, we're not going to declare it a state secret, that is, this very secret, or secret, or confidential or even limited, as it now suggests. Or the example works. Article 6 also states this: "The basics of the economic and financial system.", do we say that we will declare the state budget a secret because it makes a financial system. Either I don't know the National Bank's report on the financing or the commercial and financial monetary policy of the National Bank, etc., etc.? Namely, whoever wants to use the invitation to this article will be able to declare it a limited or otherwise degree of secrecy, etc., etc. Therefore, it is quite clear that this is not how it can and must not be regulated, such as this issue, international reputations, diplomatic relations of the Republic of Croatia. Could this lead to the conclusion, for example, that the person who gave the information about drug smuggling within the framework of diplomacy that has caused us damage to the reputation, the diplomatic reputation of the Republic of Croatia, and then he is guilty, and not the one who smuggled drugs, not. Those are inadmissible things. It has to be resolved, some things have to be set up in a different way. Of course, it is particularly interesting to say that let's say about this verification and obtaining a certificate, this will not apply to the President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister and the President of the State, but the question is, what about the third pillar of the executive authority in our country, the judicial authorities. Does that also apply to the President of the Supreme Court? I'm thinking about him, too. In addition, we are the most representative body of the people and the legislative body under the Constitution in Article 70. So as we do our duty if we don't get this kind of data, the second question is how do we prescribe data protection and the obligation to behave as the one who came into contact with that data must. But it is quite clear that this is inadmissible and in such a situation is actually a question that will have to be very seriously additionally arranged and ultimately further asked, check. Now, it's very interesting that this law is not in line with the following law which will be about an information security system related to inspection surveillance where it's spoken there in that law that it can also be authorized bodies, so individuals, so here it's talking about an office for, about a council actually for information, the Office of the National Security Council. Therefore, it must be placed very precisely who can do it. Why? Not only is he going to be overseeing, but among other things, to know who the subject is that you could possibly file a complaint against, because there's no telling who you might be investing it with, but here's the thing, even if you know who you might be complaining about. Of course, it is very interesting in Article 19 that it is practically said that officials, employees, etc. Not to mention, it turns out that, in fact, everyone is obliged to keep a secret regardless of whether they have prescribed it or have come to the secrecy of classified information during and after the termination of their duty as long as the information established by one of the degrees of secrecy is ongoing. The question is actually asked, and what if it stays... although it's prescribed that every five or four years, or two years, this question should be checked to see if it makes sense and how long it takes and can take this part of the data. For all this, I believe that this law can be the basis for a general debate of this bill, but it cannot and must not be a proposal that remains. There's one more thing I need to say a little bit and surprised me, and that's actually a question of bringing in implementing acts. Namely, here it is well spoken of implementing acts which should be adopted by the competent national authorities at the appropriate time or at the appropriate time. In fact, the question is now raised, among other things, when it is said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt the regulation referred to in Article 12 and Article 22 within 30 days, and the heads of the competent authorities will adopt the Regulation referred to in Article 16 within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law. The rulebook does not say anywhere that it must comply with this Regulation but is said to comply with this law. The question now arises, therefore, how is it that a rule will take a little more time for it to be passed than should, for example, be passed by a regulation on the secrecy and classification of data to be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is obvious that much more work should be done here, and most importantly, principles must be incorporated, the principle of proportionality must be incorporated in accordance with the protection of the Constitution of prescribed rights and obligations, the principle of which a citizen or another legal person has or has the right to complain if his Constitution is protected by law, not only to the Constitutional Court relating to access to information due to restrictions on the confidentiality of information, because this is so widely set that, in fact, with this confidentiality of information or such access, practically any information can be declared secret by the public authority and that in such a situation it is not possible to obtain certain information to carry out public oversight of the authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84685	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84686	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data tries to regulate a vast area which is legally not regulated again when it comes to the right to access the confidentiality of data is an important and sensitive area that should be harmonised with the standards of developed democratic countries. The adoption of the Law on the Protection of Data Protection in 1996 and its sublaws ceased to apply the Regulation establishing the criteria for the determination of secret defence data and the special general procedures of 1991. Thus, this important area was first regulated and laid down for the first time the principles of the confidentiality of information, the type of secrecy, the procedures for determining confidentiality and the competence of individual bodies and safeguard measures. Now, if we know that this law has also prescribed a series of solutions taken from the 1980s that do not comply with the standards of confidentiality of the data of NATO and European Union member states, which is mainly an inadequate classification, the lack of the principle of access to classified information, the security verification of certificates for persons with access rights and the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and the Law on the right to access information from 2003. All of this is enough to say that it is necessary to lay down the fundamental principles of the confidentiality of state administration data, and a new law which will treat in a modern international way the concepts of classified and unclassified data of the state administration, degrees and principles of classification as well as the principles of access to classified data. A particular problem of the applicable Data Protection Act, which has not been addressed in all these years, is that only a small number of public administration bodies have been able to adopt measures and standards for the protection of data. If that further lack of national standards for data protection is inappropriately accessible to the confidentiality of data in the national administration and therefore a poor perception in the public of the concepts of privacy and secrecy, because for God not every body of the state administration alone can bring its own measures and standards of the protection of the confidentiality of data. Therefore, we really need a new Data Secrecy Act that will regulate data confidentiality standards at national level. The 96 law also requires a complex system of several types of secrecy, we remember the state, military, official secret, or three degrees of secrecy per species, rather than internationally accepted division into four degrees of secrecy very secret, secret, confidential and limited. This is why problems arise in the signing of international security agreements, trying to equate two originally different systems of secrecy. In this way, the Republic of Croatia cannot ensure adequate legal and practical protection of classified data because national regulated types of secrecy do not have equal treatment in the criminal justice system. The lack of the Data Protection Act and the difficult possibility of sanctions in case of disappearance or disclosure of classified information, unless it is the highest degree of secrecy, i.e. State secret. Finally, the applicable law does not regulate the process of removing the degree of secrecy of data declassification when the reasons for the secrecy of them cease. The proposed Law recognises the data owner as the body which creates the data in accordance with the provisions of this Act. This body is authorised for classification and, within the meaning of this Act, becomes responsible for its classification, declassification and periodic assessment of secrecy. This Law introduces the notion of a security clearance that employees of public authorities must have in order to have access to data, determines who and when issuing a certificate, it is the Office of the National Security Council after the security verification has been carried out. Control of access to classified data shall be in the jurisdiction of the authorities themselves as long as the supervision of the implementation of the law as well as of the sublegal acts is carried out by the Office of the National Security Council. If we consider that the draft proposal has been introduced to associations and civil society as well as to the media who have made their remarks and suggestions on the proposed Law, and we see from the material that certain proposals have been accepted and since it is the first reading, I think we should support this bill, and in the second reading that we can further improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84687	Replica, the esteemed representative of Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84688	Thank you very much. A colleague, Rebić, technically tried to give unambiguous support to the Law. It is unquestionable that we must pass this Law, but I have already said, all that, what the experience of the European Union is talking about 9 branches that need to be content in this bill. So nine. I'll repeat them, spying, but spying primarily as an economic espionage that protects the state from manipulations that come from the outside, and they can reduce the competitive character of the domestic economy. Sabotage and subversion clearly in light of new challenges, terrorism as a common challenge. Political, ethnic and religious extremism, organised crime with all its features, production and smuggling of narcotics, counterfeiting and money laundering, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and nine illegal migration. So this should be the content exactly listed, precisely classified by this Act in order not to mix pears and apples, so that we don't discuss the budget that Mato said or that we don't look for reasons for local leaders to protect their public procurement. Therefore, this must be precise and otherwise, and the United Nations has taken their stand on this subject and very explicitly prescribed how to determine the content of the confidentiality of the data that should still be in the public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84689	Replica's reply, distinguished representative Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84690	Dear colleague, I may agree, but we're all actually aware it's a '96 law. The year that time has run over, and so we have a good proposal that can be developed, and for this proposal and for this Law that will be behind this debate in the Assembly, it will be seen that they will be implemented and live up to how much further regulations need to be made to make it better and more widely functioning. That's why I think this bill at this stage is more than good, and I'm sure it'll give good results, so we'll back it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84691	Thank you. State Secretary at the ministry, Mrs. Snjezana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84692	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On the need for this law to be passed, the new Data Secrecy Act appears to be a consensus. What content I am afraid that there is not yet, that is to say, individual club representatives feel that the Law should be completed and this should be taken with due attention. However, just the presentation of Agent Kovacevic, i.e. the replica, has now forced me to take the floor before the debate ends and address this House of the High. It would be good for all of us to have international documents, perhaps comparative legislation including various resolutions, recommendations from the United Nations and the Council of Europe, or the European Union to respond to what is considered to be classified as rather precise and easy. Because I don't think there's any doubt and there's no doubt that it's our common interest to determine exactly and precisely what is the secret information, and which is not to avoid in some way, on the one hand, this debate, and on the other hand to achieve the goal that we want to achieve this Law clearly... What's a secret and what's not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, I cannot fully agree with the honourable representative Kovacevic because these various international documents do not give a very precise answer, whether it is a secret information or not. This circle, which the esteemed representative stated, I don't think it's controversial and all the countries have and I don't think there's a consensus in this House. However, I refer to the 2002 Council of Ministers' recommendation in which the definition of the data to which that exemption may be applied from the public's right to access the information given by the following group, i.e. the powers to which it applies. This is a matter of national security, defence and international relations, public security, protection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences, privacy and other legitimate private interests. Then, trade and other economic interests whether they are private or public, then the environment, inspection, control and supervision of public authorities, economic and financial policies of the state. So, pretty wide. In this debate, it was said, and why not consult me with perhaps comparative experiences, use the friendly relationship system. I would not dare, on this occasion, which are our friendly countries or which are not, but I think we can learn and perhaps build on those experiences that had countries that had neighbouring particularly those countries that had recently joined the European Union and, therefore, were supposed to meet those standards. And it is true that this law has used these models, which does not mean that we should slave for them and that we do not have to and should not need to improve our legal systems. In doing so, I refer to the Slovenian law which has also quite widely defined this group of areas, areas in which classified information can be determined under a certain law. These are again data relating to public security, defence, foreign affairs, intelligence and security activities of the armed forces, systems of the device, projects and plans of importance for public security, defence, foreign affairs and scientific, research, technological, economic, financial, public security, defence and foreign affairs and the intelligence and security of the armed forces of the Republic of Slovenia. So, I'm not saying that to justify our bill, but only to confirm the fact that it is a really complex question, that it requires due attention, that it is indeed almost and impossible to clearly and precisely define exactly what data that can be considered secret. It is clear that it represents all of us and I hope, with the support of the High House and after this debate and the proposal to eventually create a final bill, this circle of data that can be determined by secret and improved. Since I have already taken a word of just one addition to what was said in this debate, this refers to data that obviously and well-founded give the greatest caution and require due attention, which is also data that only with a limited degree can be declared by the bodies of the units of local administration and self-government. And that's the data we call limited. In Slovenian, it is internal. But they also say that secret information can be done by those whose discovery to an unknown person could harm the activity or the resolution of the organ’s tasks. So also quite broadly because probably these countries estimate that it is really impossible or difficult, very difficult in the legal text to determine, precisely what data these are. Of course, that justified and related probably to the previous point of public procurement are not subject, at least not as a rule, to something that could be marked by classified information. I'm saying this because when the government makes a final draft of the law, it's really due attention to reviewing other experiences once again, to see what our needs are to make a circle of what is considered a secret further determination. I just have to point out that here, unlike that bill that was not discussed in front of the House of Commons, which the government had withdrawn from the procedure precisely because of the public's interest because it was legitimate, justified public interest and public concern including civil society communities, civil society institutions that thought that the text of the law I say had been withdrawn by the Government precisely because of the determination of the circle of confidentiality of data and the degree of confidentiality of data constitutes an attack on democratic society. And in this proposal, the law in its reasoning states that several discussions were held before this bill was sent, where the subjects of this text were presented to representatives of civil society precisely in order to ensure that, in a contained sense, what can be considered secret under this bill was reduced to that desirable, reasonable measure and that all abuses of what can and should be marked by secret information should indeed be avoided. All I have to say is that the unclassified data defined here, unlike the classified data and which has the mark, is not officially the data as unclassified data to which the public would not have the right to access, or to which the exception provided for in Article 8. The law on the right to access information. Well, at least, I dare say by my assessment in that segment that I don't think there are those remarks that consider this law to be an attack in its substantive sense of democracy. However, the fact is that this law, with respect for what I have said and the fact that we need it, is a global issue and a question that needs to be constantly improved to improve technologies that have some information that are secretive and publicized, we need precisely because of our citizens to pass a law that will be as good as possible on the one hand. And on the other hand make that reasonable and desirable balance between what needs to be secret and allowing citizens to know that. right to access information. I only note that this bill after these additional consultations, including civil communities, is a narrow circle of what can be marked by a secret, any degree of secrecy depending on which degree the body marks it, it is on the one hand. On the other hand, the possibility prescribed by law because the law offers this possibility does not mean that some information should be marked by a secret i.e. in the jurisdiction of the head of the body which has the right to mark certain information by a certain degree of secrecy i.e. and his great responsibility. And in that sense, we can talk about the data owner. It is a term that has been repeatedly criticised in this text of the law. But the owner of the data is the one, the body that built it, which is responsible for its secrecy and possible abuses that may occur when using or publishing this data. I apologize, gentlemen and ladies of Parliament, the debate has driven me to an impression or observation of what is actually a desirable goal that we want to help, which is that the data we have declared to the secrets actually remain that way. In fact, we have been taught and it is justified and cautious experience that we have had in practice by applying the old law, we hear that the government is proposing this very law and another way to first mark people who can have access to such information and then, of course, their checks we hope to prevent the publication of such data. That's where I'm talking about no data you don't need and there won't be any under this law... It's classified information. It's classified information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because we can really imagine the situation that some data that are of national security poses per se a danger and their publication would damage our interests. Therefore, we need to make that balance so that those who have published the information are indeed responding. In fact, with due caution and the need to sanction all those who first unauthorizedly label classified information and to hide some facts from the public or some processes that must not be secret. We must have a mechanism to prevent data that are indeed such and which are declared secret from being done in secret or that those who abuse such a situation and who abuse their job for whom they are chosen then publish it. That's how much I feel after this debate so far. Thank you. I'll be free for more.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84693	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable vice president of the home, Mr. Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84694	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. While we are already calling for this Council of Europe recommendation to be reminded that, in the principles of four recommendations, it follows clearly that the right to access information can be limited, of course, but it must be limited and prescribed by law and must be... in a democratic society, a proportionate goal to be achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in this respect, it's totally unacceptable when you say that you've done it and you're actually talking in Article 6 about a standard that opens up the possibility of a full discretionary assessment. And it is beautifully stated by the degree of secrecy that very secretly determines the data whose unauthorized detection has caused irreparable damage to national security, vital interests of the Republic of Croatia, and especially in values. Now that, in the sense of this law, it is believed that irreparable damage will occur, etc. national security, vital interests do not stand, nor is there a question proportionate to the objectives that are to be achieved. And in this respect, it is an observation that this part agrees with the law before we pass it because otherwise it will be unconstitutional and will not ultimately be in line with the very recommendations it calls upon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84695	Thank you. This concludes the session's morning work. It's 15 o'clock. There's going to be a vote to take down the secrecy of the data. And there's still a distinguished representative of Kapraljevic's at 3:00 p.m. And please attend the assembly at 3:00, there will be a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84696	We are continuing the session with a debate on the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of information. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84697	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the law. It's an offensive law. Insulting to all Croatian citizens because he simply says to them: "Lords you know nothing and you must not know anything." Why? Because we live in a country where the affairs are nothing but mushrooms after the rain and until one begins another, and most of the affairs are tied to taxpayers' money. No affair ends that way to question who's to blame for something but who reported the affair? We live in a state that is legally insecure and proves that...... It's got something to do with it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And it proves that those who are a little obliged to the state are thieves, and those who owe her much are her partners. We live in a country where the corruption perception index is such that it places us in place with Burke's Faso, Lesota and similar exotic countries. We live in a country where... We're still not clear whether we want to clear up with a conflict of interest or not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We live in a country where we haven't passed the Protection Act... And we know how those who have gained enough civic courage to point out any corrupt affair in any way they've been through. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84698	My colleague, please be on the subject. The law on the protection of the confidentiality of information. [[I'm on the subject.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84699	I'm on my way because that law is offensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84700	Okay. Let's stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84701	And that little civic courage that appears in society and where it points to some corrupt actions we want to kill in this way. And when we told the story, the citizens had the right to know and passed the law on access to information we expected it to be so.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84702	Comrade Markov, we need you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84703	I'll be right back, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84704	Not right now, right now, stay right now. So did fellow Sabati. It's important. It's important. Please, peace. Here you go, buddy. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84705	Gentlemen, I see you don't want to hear this... I'll use my time to keep my mouth shut. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Because I trust you to be far more handsome than this right now. ... [[Speakers not included, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84706	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84707	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84708	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84709	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. I've already said a lot about that law in the opening statement and somewhere before the end of the morning session. I looked back at the part of the debate. Now, in the end, the assessment is that this is an offensive law. I cannot agree on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with such an assessment because it underestimates the knowledge, intelligence and maturity of our citizens. I don't underestimate the right of our citizens to have the right to know. It is, it is not controversial. And the right measure, I have often talked about this pay phone and the explanation, defending this law is something that is a democratic principle that no one can dispute. However, there is a circle of data in all societies and Croatia is no exception which, according to its content, by the seriousness of the areas that cover can and must remain secret and is defined by this law. Whether the law can further improve that these controls and that border are profiled is another issue and the applicant will take this seriously by estimating the results of this debate. However, a certain range of data may and must remain secret. I just pray and plead that the affairs that sometimes appear in public, there are plenty of them, and that of course affect citizens do not interfere, do not confuse with what is the content of this Law. And the question is, were these affairs actually caused by what it is or something not being declared a secret information? And just in the end let me say that this debate points to an important segment of this law that didn't have so many words and over this debate, which is who has the right to access classified data. Therefore, only authorised persons in those bodies who have passed the security check, and this security check is carried out by the competent services. That's one thing. And secondly, the important segment of this law is surveillance. The surveillance is double because it has to be so organized over that body that has that information and which it has declared secret. But surveillance is externally through our National Security Council office. The Office of the National Security Council at this time is indeed the most qualified service which can and must carry out the possible abuses and possible infringements of the application of this law. In the end, I thank you again. The proposer will, of course, take all these remarks and proposals into account, carry out further necessary consultations to ensure that this really important, complex and sensitive law for the establishment of the principle of democracy is as good as possible and addressed to the procedure in such a text as the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-21-0.u84710	I'm closing the debate. Gentlemen, let's hurry. At 5:30, there's a show by the Revisor of Glogol. I'd make it to that show. We're going to the Proposal for a Privacy Policy, first reading. I am voting on the next conclusion, the proposal of the Privacy Act is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. The result? With 72 votes in favour, five abstentions and 28 against adoption is the proposed conclusion. The law goes to first reading.
