ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90010	We'll continue the afternoon session. We've got Secretary of State Vladimir Vrankovic stuck somewhere. So if you agree to move to the fourth item of the agenda, then we'll go back to third because our Secretary of State is here. So the fourth item of the agenda is 4. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Culture Programme (2007 to 2013)), with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 690 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And when we set up the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Mr Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90011	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia opens for Croatian culture the possibility of reporting projects and from the Culture Programme (2007). ( 2013) participates equally as a full member of the European Union. This programme, which provides for the allocation of 400m euros, opens the door for all programmes that encourage mobility of cultural workers, mobility of cultural works and between cultural dialogue. And apart from connecting Croatian cultural workers and creators with European ones, so it enables us to make part of the funding for these projects come from this programme. You saw in the document's very proposal that the Republic of Croatia is expected to pay membership fees. For now, it pays 25% of the membership fee, 75% is covered by the PHARE programme and from, over time, will pay an increasing and larger share of the programme. This also provided support for the accession of this programme by the European Union. A cultural contact point has also been established in the Ministry of Culture through which this programme will be implemented, and which is also funded by 50% of the European Union. I would like to thank you in advance for confirming this Memorandum of Culture, in practice, the possibility of an equal participation with the European Union, in the European Union, on the achievement of the cultural programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90012	Thank you. Do the committees want it? Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90013	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Here is the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the programme of culture (2007-2013) at its 35th session of 14 June 2007.). The Committee discussed the issue as a home working body, and the opening argument was tabled by representatives of the applicant. Confirmation of this Memorandum of Understanding will create a legal framework for cooperation in the field of culture between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community in a way that natural legal persons in the field of culture will be able to directly participate in projects and use the European Community's resources set out for that purpose. The need to pay the annual financial contribution in favour of the budget of the European Community will be ensured from pre-accession funds and from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee unanimously reached the next conclusion. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Culture Programme (from 2007 to 2013) by emergency procedure in the form prepared by the applicants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90014	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Proposal, application for the IDS club on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia, etc., etc. This item of the agenda that is. Dear Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club. He's giving up the debate. Thank you. Final secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90015	Since it is, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since the Legislative Committee has tabled two amendments which are of a technical nature and to the name of the law, we accept the proposed amendments so that they are immediately accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90016	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90017	Fourthly, the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia and the Programme, in the Culture programme from 2007 to 2013. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 106 votes in favour and one abstention of the proposed law, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90018	Now we're going back to this third item of the agenda. 3. Report on the state and management of stock stocks for the period 2000 to 2006, with individual annual reports and financial indicators. The report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the material into the boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary at the Ministry, Mr. Vladimir Vrankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90019	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Appreciated representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament allow me only in a few words to give a brief introduction to this point in the report on the state and management of the stock for the period 2000 to 2006. At the very beginning, I would like to stress that business with state goods supplies took place between 2000 and 2002 in accordance with the provisions of the State Goods Act. And the Strategic Stock Stocks Act, which took place in business with state goods supplies since 2002, was adopted on 11 July 2002. That law lays down that strategic stockpiles are to be created for the provision of basic supplies at a time of war or direct threat and the threat of independence and unity and the survival of the Republic of Croatia, and in the case of major natural disasters and technical and technological and environmental disasters. Stock supplies can be used to provide urgent assistance to other countries in case of disasters, humanitarian aid and in case of participation of the Republic of Croatia's forces in peace and humanitarian operations abroad. On 11 June 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a balance sheet of strategic commodity stocks prescribed by the provisions of Article 9. The Strategic Stocks Act. Bilancom is a particular type, name and quantity of goods, as well as basic territorial distribution, plan and deadlines for the fill of goods that make up the strategic stock, necessarily necessary for the lives of people, then oil derivatives, materials and raw materials needed for production. The balance sheet plan is from 2004 to 2008. During this reporting period, the State Goods Stocks Act was conducted in accordance with the rules applicable to the budget and budget users, the State Stocks Act, the Strategic Stocks Act and decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The report shortened the list of the annual inventory of the stocks and the display of the management of the stock. In accordance with the legal provisions, a regular annual list of state stock stocks was carried out as of 31.12. The census was carried out in a way that, in addition to the list committees on special powers, representatives of the State Inspectorate, and the inventory deficits were largely resolved in the administrative procedure by issuing a solution which ordered the return of missing quantities of goods, i.e. financial... The right persons of the stockholders of state goods stocks and responsible persons of companies who have not acted in a manner and within the time limits of certain administrative solutions have been subject to criminal and infringement proceedings in accordance with the legal provisions, and claims for inventory deficits have been sued. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This led to order among warehouse companies, and thus to minimal deficits. In the strategic stock structure itself, the highest value in 2006 is 9 product types, which accounts for 91% of total stocks and 17% of total wheat, euro diesel 16%, maguta 15%, meat 13%, meat and other cans 10%, lubricated fuel 7%, sugar 6% and corn 6%. Strategic stock exchanges have been filled, 54% in the food supply. In 2007, a total of 25 million kuna worth of food products was planned and the balances filled will be 76%. In 2007 the balance sheet is planned with equipment for the care, supply and accommodation of the population and vehicles, aggregates and pumps of €30 million. The weakest filling of the balance sheet is the filling of the oil derivatives. In view of the high value of the purchase as well as the fact that in 2006, a Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products was established to store mandatory oil stocks of 90 days of average consumption, as well as the establishment of operational procedures to be stored by the bonds in accordance with the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. Every year has its own special report, but I would ultimately just like to highlight the basic characteristics of the state supply business during the 2003 period. These are established surplus income and income from expenditure, reduction of material expenditure, reduction of claims from customers and by reprogramme, reduction of commitments on loans, continuous renewal of goods of strategic stock stocks and the sale of sugar market stock, juniper meat from the intervention buying-in and part of the ransom wheat that continued in 2007. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90020	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90021	Your Honor, Mr Vice President, the honourable representatives of the rapporteur, the esteemed MPs. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 59th session held on 23 May 2007 discussed the report on the state and management of supply supplies for the period 2000 to 2006 with individual annual reports and financial indicators submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 4 May 2007. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this report as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the business of state stock was regulated by the State Stocks Act, the Strategic Stocks Act and the decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Citing the fundamental difference between state goods stocks and strategic commodity stocks, these are those created to ensure basic supply in times of war or directly threatened independence and survival of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in the case of major natural disasters and technological and environmental disasters. The applicant's representative reported that the strategic stock stocks account for 45% and the market share of 55% of their structure. The value structure of the stock is 17% wheat, euro diesel 16%, lube 15%, meat 13%,... and other cans 10%, lubricated fuel 7%, corn 6%, sugar 6%, milk and milk processing 1% and the rest 9%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Following the introduction of the proposal's representative, questions were also raised as follows. What companies abuse stockpiles? What is the most common offense, or crime, and what measures are being taken against the perpetrators? The applicant replied that since 2000, there has been a constant trend in reducing administrative and criminal proceedings related to the operation of state goods supplies so that only 3 administrative solutions were issued in 2006 against the warehouse. When it comes to companies where abuses have occurred, it is important to note that they are linked primarily to the year 2000, both by number and at the cash level of embezzled amounts. He also noted that in the event of the initiation of a criminal proceedings against the persons against whom the proceedings were initiated, he was fired. It is also noted that the state of supply has been increased multiple over the past few years and that in crisis situations, the Government of the Republic of Croatia may withdraw from food centres the mass of products for which shortages could exist. It is also pointed out that the state records of the state of the state of the stock of wheat are kept both by quantity and by quality, and the same rules apply to both fish and meat cans. When talking about the number of warehouses of state stockpiles, it should be noted that their number has been halved over the past few years. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament that the report on the state and management of supply for the period 2000 to 2006, with individual annual reports and financial indicators be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90022	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90023	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Mr. Representatives! To me, this sentence on page 3 of this report, which literally states that administrative solutions in administrative proceedings, i.e. financial burdens, were issued for the established inventory deficits of state goods goods in accordance with the State Stock Act and the Law on... the stockpiles and those against legal persons, the warehouse of state goods stocks and the responsible persons of the unpaid claims company have been initiated by the executive procedures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So great. It means that the stock shortages are solely the warehouses' faults. Who's gonna be second, yeah? Secondly, why did we get this report on the state of supply from 2000 to 2006? To be honest, I don't have anything against it or such a report, but maybe it should have been extended to '99, '98, '97. A year. Is someone doing a report in six or nine years at the end of the day the same thing is for him or for him to do the same thing. However, the point of this data is on page 6, 10, 11 where it is literally said that the deficits have been subject to claims for the settlement of the financial equivalent of the missing amount since 2000, amounting to HRK 146.5 million. During 2001, 2003, a shortage of goods in two food products companies was established for wheat of 314 thousand kilograms for flour of 81 thousand kilograms for which financial burdens were issued due to the non-return of goods in the financial equivalent of 465 thousand kuna. In 2004, the shortage of goods was established in three food products companies, for wheat of 780 thousand kilograms, at the warehouse "Ljudevit Posavski", "Mlin", Pekare d.d. Tits in the amount of 25 thousand kilograms, in the warehouse "Mlin" d.o.o. Podravska Sesveda and for refined soybean oil in the size of 3 thousand 911 kilograms. 2005, etc. What would I personally be interested in, what is the fate of those persons against whom I have just read the proper criminal or criminal procedure? And the question is, how is the same story repeated year after year? On page 24, it is literally said when we talk about the value of the stock, that the total value of the goods of the state stock, fixed and market supplies on the day of 31.12.2000, was 400 million kuna, which is 48.58% less than in '99. A year. A value of the warehouse 134 million kuna and is said to have been reduced by the sale of market stocks i.e. the total value of the stock. mainly of one type of commodity of the marketable surplus wheat. This is an old Croatian story with Croatian and agricultural production? We, among other things, produce wheat in a large part of the grain for supply, buy it for one kuna or I don't know how long it will be this year, and then sell the same market supplies for the bogeyman. Everyone is absolutely to help the peasant just something to do that neither he nor the state loses. Such a monocultural agricultural policy is largely at the expense of both the country and the farmer himself. Such a agricultural policy also no longer holds water, because it is neither social nor economic and there is something to change that a farmer can live better without the state losing anymore. So in 2000, it was unauthorized to have 129 million kuna. In 2001, actions against stockpiles amounted to 137 million kuna. On page 56, that's right, we're talking about 10.1 million kuna shortfall, back in wheat for 2002. So wheat is one of the curent goods for various machinations when it comes to market supplies. In 2203, we see that the damage in stock is minimal, 465 thousand kuna. However, what we should arrange for the Parliament to see like this, which are warehouses that work in these stockpiles. I think these people, like the drivers of our ministers, would have to start filling those property cards, following the value of their assets. We, or rather Croatian public, are focusing exclusively on the Parliament, and I argue that this Parliament is still the least problematic place because of one permanent control of the Croatian public. In 2004, the very business of 2003 was stabilised, made transparent when here, in 2004 the deficit in "Ljudevit Posavskom" of 780 thousand kilograms of wheat, and in Podravski Sesveda 25 thousand 370 kilograms of wheat. In Great Luka, less than 3,000 911 liters of oil, plus another 150 thousand 430 kilos of barley. It's just amazing. For those deficiencies, administrative solutions have been issued and then further says beware that the wheat deficiency is returned. It's about 80 wagons of wheat. Where did someone keep that wheat? How can you get back 80 cars be careful it's one big composition without talking about it in public and keeping the public quiet. That's the point. It's not a supply anymore, it's a self-service. If it passes. Why is there no better surveillance? However, it is said in the conclusion that in 2004 it was better than in 2003, but these data on page 98 say slightly different that the process of controlling compliance with contractual obligations has identified a lack of wheat of marketable goods stock in the warehouse "Kalistović" d.o.o. Drenovci, in the amount of one million 651 thousand and 918 kilograms, has been issued an administrative solution for the refund of goods. The warehouse because it returned 1 million kilograms of wheat while for 651 thousand 918 kilograms the burden was issued. The above-mentioned burden has now been settled by the debtor. It's a brother to a brother of some if 1 pound of wheat means 650 thousand kuna. And now tell me whether it's worth it in this country to be the president of the state, the President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister or, say, a warehouse in stock. I think they are far better placed than the people sitting in those institutions or in this House. In 2006, here on page 120, it is said that during 2006 A total of 17 legal proceedings were initiated by the Directorate in order to collect claims and settle the goods identified as a deficiency. Seven lawsuits, i.e. proposals for an 11 million kuna execution, were filed for bankruptcy claims for 3 companies of 7 million kuna and 19 thousand kuna, four criminal charges were initiated through the State's attorney's office for the unauthorized handling of State goods and for the issue of bonds and checks without cover were also brought in the administrative procedure of three administrative solutions. And then we have this table total run procedures seventeen for 18 million 277 thousand kuna in 2006. What do you say? It seems to be the head of the stock supply, it's like winning the lottery, it's one of the "best jobs" in this country. For example, the value of the goods held in 2005 was 651 million kuna, 2006. 523 million kuna. That's where we see the trade, that's where we buy, there's a business that's worked out, I mean almost to perfection. What it looks like is the structure of the supply supply here is indeed our boys threw themselves into the oil industry with 15% lube and in meat industry and wheat, corn and jet fuel and Eurodiesel and sugar, and milk, etc. meat fish and other cans, and there's really a lot of stuff. So, the diaposone in which it moves to say that this business is extremely wide, the possibility of abuse is extremely large, and so I propose nice property cards for those people in the State supply as well as for drivers who trust to drive our ministers. All fingers clearly point to the Parliament, but as we know, power isn't here, it's with those who control economic flows. All in all useful but one disappointing report. I'm afraid that if the order doesn't start being introduced, it's probably not going to be better in the future. I don't know that much until we get the names of those people who are, and I think that this report should just accept knowledge and nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90024	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of the Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The incorrect claim made by the esteemed colleague Cain on the agricultural policy of monoculture, in this case wheat. It is precisely this ministry that places a focus on several agricultural cultures mostly high incomes. How much of that comes out on fertile soil is another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90026	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90027	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, there's a whole series of incorrect allegations, but we're used to it with fellow Caine. Otherwise I wouldn't have come up here for a pay phone at all. One of them is that wheat is bought for expensive money and selling for a bagatel that's not true, it's really not true. ... Come on, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's true, it's a transparent sale. Where's the difference? The difference is in incentives, the difference in this is compared to how much the manufacturer gets and since it's sold. That's one thing. Second, the second allegation stems from his claim that order is beginning to be introduced now or never. The fact is that order has been introduced, the order of the last few years, that the situation in the stock is extremely transparent, that there are no more embezzlements or anything else, it's just a few little things that are being controlled, and that insinuation really doesn't stand. I don't think it's fair before he took a look at this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90028	Thank you. The HSP Club is a respected representative of Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90029	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The HSP Club can only take this report to the attention of the fact that the state of supply is such that there is essentially no state of supply in the stock and that we do not have a system of supply management yet built. If we know what the purpose and function of the stock supply is, and that is, to ensure strategic stockpiles are created in peace and provide for basic supplies in various situations, as well as the law states, that the case of war, direct threats and independence and the unity of the state, and in the case of major natural disasters and technical and technological and environmental disasters. All this is about why these supplies of strategic products are created, and also one of the purposes of the stock supply would be to react to the market in situations that can be caused elsewhere by elemental and other disasters and so that it has a bearing on the state of supply of Croatian citizens with these basic strategic products and that is the main purpose of the supply. Namely, we are not surprised by the fact that we know that we have not yet adopted a plan for the defence of the Republic of Croatia. We had 1991. We don't have it today. Because if we had a defense plan, then it would be precisely determined by balances and all the rest of those supplies, stock supplies for 90 days. All countries that have strategic stockpiles have that in 90 days. You see, this is what Croatia had in 1991, oil and oil derivatives and all other products of wheat, flour, oil and everything that belongs to the Strategic Stocks Act and now you look at the situation now which is the value of the stock at this point? This is the state of the value of the stock in 2006 in kuna is 400 million kuna. And now, for as long as you don't give me God any of this condition, it means some serious elemental disaster, what do we have supplies for and what amount? I'm sure we don't have 90 days. Because $5,400, 400 million, 400 million of these kunas, we certainly don't have any oil in oil, oil products. It was the situation that despite the fact that we should have stocked up for 90 days only somewhere last year we passed the law how and how to get that desired amount of oil and oil products. Not to mention all these products. Therefore, we cannot be satisfied with the state of supply because it is obvious that there is insufficient concern about what is the purpose of the supply supply, and why do those countries need it? So we can't be satisfied with this situation because it's obvious that the situation isn't good. The situation in the stock is not good. We've seen this, I'd like to welcome this number of machinations to try to come down to a better situation than it was before. But I'd be interested in what's happened to all these cases since the previous criminal charges and everything else? Have these procedures been completed? Yeah. Well, it says, but we're not happy with that kind of work. ... Yeah, we're not happy with that kind of work. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I would ask you, Mr. Vice President, to warn your colleagues that we are still in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90030	I warn you colleagues to ensure peace for the respected representative Kovacevic speaking on behalf of HSP. If there is no peace, there will be a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90031	But look also now, so the function of the stock is to have everything that Croatia needs in 90 days. We don't have it right now. And now we certainly can't settle for such a fact. Now, let's not talk about these various speculations that have occurred with both wheat and all the rest of us whether, who has good information, means who has good connections to the supply supply can come into the situation, say, while the price of wheat on the market is largely missing. He's taking supplies at no cost. Sell. And after that, when the harvest comes next year, when the price falls, he returns to the merchandise. Here's one way to manipulate how and how it can be manipulated. Not to mention other products that as such must be in stock. And now what kind of control model we have. We don't have any stock model. I still wouldn't be surprised if the association said mice ate wheat. Only that part should still be in this part so that you really... how and how goods stocks are managed in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what's important is here, for example. What was the value of the stock in 2005? So it was 530 million kuna, and in 2006 it was reduced to 400 million kuna. And what is the function of stockpiles? It is part of when you have certain products, so when you need to react to the market or part of the normal product, you need to renew the stock, take care when the product expires and everything else. And, but this is irresponsible behavior. If it was 530 million, now we came in 2006 to 400 million kuna. This was the situation, and in 2000 it meant that in 2001 there was a sudden fall to the 273 million kuna value of goods. And she was the worst in 2003. 231 million kuna. So the value of the stock, here I don't count this value of my own warehouses. So this is the only normal way and how to maintain supplies, maintain quality supplies and take care of market conditions and all other situations. And obviously we haven't done much here. Obviously, we haven't done much here, and therefore the Croatian Party's Club of Rights takes this report to the knowledge and we would also like to see the proposal for measures how and in what way the situation in the stock stores should make it as real and according to the law and I say in these situations when stockpiles are such an instrument of reacting and enabling the basic supply of Croatian citizens. Because if this kind of stock situation continues, you can see that we're going to have a lot of different situations. How many of us at this point do we even have tents? Let's remember that situation, I think it was an earthquake in Iran, so the government ordered that a supply of certain funds, so tents, then there were blankets and everything else to be given. And in the end, when the government gave the order to the stockpiles, it was then found that it was not there at all. And according to the list, there were supposed to be tents and blankets and all that was government or sleeping bag and all that the government as such calculated to have in stock. When the warrant was sent to the principal, it was seen that there was no condition in the stock. And it would really be good to have one really independent, independent team appointed by the Parliament to determine and determine a truly factual state of supply. That would, I believe, be still a devastating result of what's contained here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90032	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90033	Here I am glad that here's the brother's party started dealing not only with drugs but also with wheat, right? So we went one step further. And... What now? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'll be right there. But a colleague argues, he says, "They take wheat when it's expensive and they come back when it's cheap" without realizing that there's a rule book, there's a rule that gives the sentence to be restarted. If you give someone 100 tons it must bring back 100 tons of wheat, new wheat, because that's how the wheat is restored there. So let's turn off the machinations, you're looking at everything black, I don't know what's wrong with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90034	In correcting an incorrect quote, this observation of what to deal with HSP is not moderate. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90035	Mr. President, this is why a colleague really lets himself do a lot of drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90036	Here I am...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90037	... I'm asking to give him a warning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead of making sure that the police and the competent authorities deal with narcotics, he causes it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90038	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90039	Here's Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the report on the state and management of commodity supplies for the period 2000 to 2006, with individual annual reports and financial indicators. The report is quality, complete and can really distinguish the situation by year, but also from financial indicators, indicators of legal actions launched, stock structure per year, and value structures are clear how to manage stock stocks during the observed period. Stock supplies are an exceptional factor in each country and their exclusive role is to ensure the supply of the population in the event of war, major natural disasters, environmental disasters and to send humanitarian aid to other countries. Otherwise, for Mr. Peru Kovacevic, stock supplies are secured for 30 days, for the care of 50,000 residents. Stock stocks played a major role during the Homeland War, but also after the war because they supplied war-enhancing areas, started production both in agriculture and in industry, permanently sending humanitarian aid abroad and abroad, they were subject to market disturbances, especially in the wheat market. The reports provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia cover almost two mandates of the past and this Government, and shows the government's relationship to the stockpiles, and thus the situation in supply management is conditioned. Stock stock until 2004 until the arrival of this government was an uninterrupted source of affairs, a bad relationship with the property of the Republic of Croatia, turned into a loan of bad economies, the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary were buried with numerous items and left a black spot for all those who were dealing with state goods supplies. The report clearly shows that the administration failed to address these problems from 2000 to 2004. In fact, it started in a completely wrong direction, starting with bankruptcy proceedings, lawsuits, criminal and criminal proceedings that in 4 years were 458 of which 132 bankruptcys, however, had no visible results. At the same time, the importance of both the role of stockpiles and the operation of the intervention on the market has been ignored absolutely unprofessional and incompetent. I mean, first of all, the 2000 wheat buy-out model, the '98 wheat sale, '99. and 2000. 289 thousand tonnes of wheat per 0.56 kuna was sold and 179 thousand tonnes were bought for the same money. It's a direct loss to cca. 110 million kuna. And with indirect costs, far greater money is at a loss. In the same period, the value of the stock was reduced from 916 million kuna to 350 million, while claims rose from 886 million to a billion and 279 million. A large number of employees, the permanent changes of directors in those 4 years, as many as 6 directors, conflicts between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy, transactions unnecessarily bureaucratized, unprofessionally planned and carried out, perhaps consciously, a communiqué with the management of state property, a poor relationship with warehouses, continuously accumulated problems and of course the result cannot be different than defeating. Despite all these problems, the last government never once considered the State and Management Report, it did not consider the annual accounts, nor did it try to bring the stock balance. The sale of wheat and 0.36 kuna, barley of 0.50 kuna, flour of 0.90 kuna, the replacement of medium to 1% sulphur oil with medium oil, over 1% of the sulphur we can't use today, the renewal of wheat we call them "11 magnificent" where there were contracts take two kilos back one, and eight didn't even return the wheat unfortunately weren't enough reasons for the serious alarm and the launch of serious business with the state supply. Absolutely aware of all the problems this government had a clear goal of building order and putting stock in a function determined by its law. Our leaders have changed because it's impossible that the system isn't working and only directors are changing. The number of employees was reduced due to the functionality of the administration, in 2000 40 employees, in 2004 18. A stock balance has been reached with the dynamics of the stock, the work of the stock stocks exclusively by the decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and a correct relationship with the warehouses, responsible relations with their own assets. For slave supplies are all together, and warehouses, and workers, and those who run their own warehouses. The result of such an attitude has so far yielded results. The administration is able to carry out all the tasks ahead of it, from market intervention, from intervention on the market, from an intervention buy-in, here I must specify an example of the purchase of the hero and the purchase of the wheat that has been carried out with few people and within 15 days all consumers have been paid. There's not a single ounce of wheat missing in these jobs. Of course, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy played a major role in everything, and all together really, as the prime minister pointed out yesterday, there is no problem we cannot solve. 63 decisions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia were implemented between 2004 and 2006. The demand has been significantly reduced, from a billion 279 million to cca. 380 million instructions, i.e. claims for which the fee is in question. Other claims have been converted into quality claims, equity shares, shares and assets or have been charged. The demand for long-term customers has been reduced from 439 million to 84 million. The troubled warehouses during the observed period, I want to make it clear here that Slavonia, Županju and PIK Vrbovac were the biggest problems since the 146 million years 2000 and Slavonia Nova, Slavonia, Zupana is solved, Nova company Slavonia, Nova is 100 % owned by the Republic of Croatia, and PIK Vrbovac is also solved. Those troubled warehouses can no longer be stockpiles with such administrations. The contracted transactions are secured exclusively by guaranteeing quality banks, obligations to stockpiles to warehouses are settled in the retail currency of no account from warehouses, none of their costs have been delayed for days. Aids are being done, businesses are being helped. The number of warehouses has been reduced, but the territorial supply schedule is satisfied, costs have been reduced, revenues increased and annual reports have been produced for each year and adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The most important thing for this government's period is that there is not one affair in the supply of goods, there is no corruption, the stockpiles are capable of carrying out all the tasks that the Government of the Republic of Croatia put before them in accordance with the law. The state of stocking is certainly right for those who are dissatisfied, but the plan in the balance sheet is completed by the end of 2008, and also from the assessment report that food products will be filled with 76% at the end of 2007, that the equipment for the care and supply and accommodation of the population will be 46% and the filling of vehicles, the aggregates 65% simply gives us hope that, in accordance with the balance sheet, we will complete the planned deadline. The state of supply is objective, but the management of stock stocks since 2004 has indeed been and has been changed and adequately mainly due to the role of state supply. And finally, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the report in question and expects to continue the good work of the administration, because this administration has really had the strength to put into office the stock that belongs to it, to remove all the affairs and thievings that were going on before, to restore dignity to the warehouses, to a short term the administration can and can do its job. Keep up the good work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90040	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90041	Thank you very much. I am correcting that it is true that the administration can and is able to do a business in stock because instead of the administration, some others who have been given it are doing so by an import lobby that is phenomenally regulated by that market. Imports pork, and then afterwards goes to buy pig meat in a way that gives 3 kunas to redeemers, and 6 kuna to get a farmer. These phenomena are common and instead of administration, instead of stock supplies, the market is successfully regulated by importers so that this year we will have about $2 billion of food imports in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90042	Yeah, I don't see where there's a correction to the incorrect assumption, because the honourable representative didn't talk about what you've just corrected. But good. Here are the honourable MPs, a few notices before we go further into the debate over this agenda item. After consulting with the main negotiator, the Republic of Croatia, Mr Drobnjak, and following his request for additional consultations with the European Commission, would skip the debate today from the 6th item of the agenda. It is therefore the Law on Foreigners, the Copyright Act, the designations of origin of products, the topography of semiconductor products, the patent, industrial design and the stamp and the Final Proposal on Asylum, the Asylum Act. This is the 13th item of the agenda. Therefore, after the conclusion of this item of the agenda, we would go to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation and then move on to the 14th item of the Agenda of the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on residence tax, with the Final Proposal of the Law, so because of the request of the Chief Negotiator for additional consultations. Thank you very much. In the name of the HNS Club, the word has a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90043	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The first question I've been waiting for the secretary of state, he's gone, is why is this report in front of the Croatian Parliament just now? If you noticed on the cover that this was a report from 2000 to 2006. Because until '99. when Parliament discussed the latest report until today, the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not respect the law and delivered the reports to Parliament. ... Government. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mongolian. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] One was Mongolian, I guess. On 8 March this year, I made a written request to the President of the Parliament to ask the government to respect the law and deliver a report to the Parliament and only now to discuss it. But better now than never. But the very fact that since 2000, there has been no report, and Parliament has not asked for that report to speak for itself enough. The present. ... I've said since 2000. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I said since 2000, so if you don't understand what it means, I'll draw it for you later. I'm not going to give any criticism to the current department of stockpiles, but I'm going to deal with the problem that's visible from the report, which has never been mentioned before, just one dilemma, two to remove. The concept of warehouses in this report is not an employee or an employee who works in the state service, but a company held by goods supplies, so counterpart Cain asked that those companies also file property cards if he literally understood his remarks. And secondly, it was said that the state of supply was objective. What's this state of affairs about stock supplies is objective? I haven't really heard that yet. But good. According to our law, there are two of the most important documents in the case of state stock. It's a balance based on an annual refurbishment and recovery program, however you like, of supply supplies. Article 9 refers to the balance sheet, and Article 10 of the law speaks about the annual plan of what the situation of things is and about the balance sheet of all these years and days today and the annual plans. According to the balance that is in force, the strategic stock should be worth billions and 104 million kuna. The government of the Republic of Croatia, a billion and 104 million, brought the balance. In 2003, the value of goods was 231 million, 2004. 649 million, 2005. 530 million, and last year 400 million. 400 million from a billion and 100 percent. State is objective of 30%. If it's only 30%, the stock reserves are filled, which isn't the wrong directory, and that's proof of the annual plan, how can we be satisfied? It's one thing to manage what it has. One thing is how many mice will eat flour, wheat, sugar and pepper. And the second is, how many supplies there are. For 2007, according to the Annual Purchase Plan, goods worth 201 million were to be purchased. Last year was supposed to buy goods worth or keep money, 208 million. In 2005, it was due to be acquired worth 189 million. Tell me, do you remember how much money we've provided in the budget for this year for the purchase of supply supplies? Zero kuna. And last year, how much did we put in the budget for supplying supplies? Zero kuna. What about the last one? 0,0 kuna. Who's to blame for the stockpile situation? The Croatian Parliament, or those who voted for the budget with 0.0 kuna. How much goods are they gonna buy this year? Up to thirty million from their own incomes. Is 23 or 28, here, kill me, at this point I don't know. But it's not more than 30. And there was a 201 million planned. So 17% planned. Last year, how much was purchased? Zero. How much did it get last? Zero. Zero, zero. Who's to blame? Hebrang says opposition. Future opposition, right. You're right. So, what are we discussing? We have not fulfilled our basic obligation to stock, to secure money to buy goods, we have not provided money that will be in reserve or on a special account in order to intervene if God does not give rise to such needs. And the principalship has also provided reports of this little thing that he has. And it is true that unlike 17, 12, 15 years earlier, the state of reserve management, the management system and the management of that property is rather than before. That's right. However, as Parliament, do we have to promote with special attention the next fact that at the end of each business year, stock supplies have claims from around one billion to one billion and one hundred kunas. 800 was the lowest, one billion 180 if I'm not mistaken for the biggest claim of which is about 700 to 800 in the short term, and the long-term is always between 300 and 400. What's in the structure of these claims? Obligations formed long, long before. Many, long before years and six, and seven, and fifth, and fourth, and third, and second, and first and 2000. And now, at the end of 2006, colleagues and colleagues, these claims are a billion and 40 million, of which 973 million are short-term and 84 million long-term. But that in itself wouldn't be anything if there wasn't another information. That every business year the stock reserves must be recorded between 120 million and 200 million kunas of their claims because the debtors went into bankruptcy, because a court ruling killed the demand for goods reserves or the government intervened with its decision and fed some of the companies in the Republic of Croatia on the burden of commodity reserves. So for example, in 2004, those items were, like, 8.5 million ODET, 12 million kuna "INPOTET", million kuna "PIL", 270 thousand "KARABIA". These are companies that, the names of companies that owed to the stock reserves and went bankrupt. Can someone normally explain to me what kind of companies they've been dealing with have taken goods for 12 and a half million kuna and went bankrupt after that? We signed the claim because the bankruptcy proceedings were closed. "Mathema", "Kostela", "Baza", "Barila", "Cestaric", "Price", these companies that I read to you in a mass of 197 million registrations in 2004 participated with 80%. The owners of these companies are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, alive and healthy in the middle of Zagreb. When and what goods did they buy from the stock reserves? Or what happened to the rest of them? We never paid a single kuna and we wrote it down. You know what it means to write down 200 million kunas? Papala kitty. The 200 million in total claims at the end of the year were 20%. In 2005, we signed out 118 million claims. Who? "Connipin", "Neda", "Peace", "Tutifruti", "Kochuschusha", "Pazinka", "Velebit", "Peak". I'm asking, when did your debt religious relations come into being? The answer is, a long time ago. Why? No one remembers anymore. So we signed up for 2005. 118 million kuna of state money. At the end of that business year, demand for stock reserves amounted to about 800 million kuna. In 2005, at the end of the financial year, the claims were if I wasn't wrong, 884 million, and in 2006, a billion 40. You see, that size is always similar. In 2006 we wrote down the next 119 million kunas and re-writed "BDS", "Klas", "Kokoš", "Kokot", "Siltom", "Klasje", "Sirana", "Dinarka", "Veterinaria", "Koka" Varazdin 20 million aid received from the stock reserves, clean 20. We've also booked 8 million claims on stock reserves from the state budget. The state budget owed the goods... And we wrote it down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if every year 20% of the amount of the claim at the end of the financial year is written down, that means we're going to be writing down between 120 and 200 million kunas for the next four, five years. Legal services and it was a good attempt to make a maximum effort to protect claims with new business partners and a maximum effort to ensure payment but only now. For all of these debts or claims that the stock reserves at this point have these billions of about how much the security of the bill is 1%. All judgments are often done to damage the stock reserves. Everyone was better secured or just disappeared. I remember an example that he gave a loan to the mortgage and a photo of the house he mortgaged. He gave a photo of the house he mortgaged, and when it came to the executive procedure, it was found to be a photograph of someone else's house. In these four years, our colleagues and colleagues wrote down 800 million. In this year, about 120 million, brother to brother a billion. What do you think about a billion kunas from another resort somewhere else, what would that be called no matter who's in power and who it's about? Missing. But I think KZ would come to the scene then. There's no KZ here, unfortunately. It's a stock market situation. It's the truth about stockpiles. And it's a short time. We'll have another budget. What's next? Do stock stores still need oil and oil derivatives after new laws and regulations? Or is someone else in charge of saving oil for 90 days? Whether stocks should keep food in their warehouses or the situation is already such that production and the trade network are strong enough to intervene from their warehouses and reduce food storage costs. Sometimes it might have been necessary. No, I don't. Stock supplies need a new strategy, and we need to decide what we're going to have in stock in the future. It used to be one thing, different today. Savings are possibly incredible. There's an incredible amount of money we can save the state if we can find a new strategy. And I hope I'm wrong, I wish I wasn't right, and in this year 200 million of what the vice president would say is gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90044	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90045	Thank you. Well, there's a lot of inaccuracy here, a lot of insinuation, a lot of talking, a lot of fantasizing about what would happen if it were and who did what. I'm sorry that there's a gentleman that's not a little more specific. But on the question of who is to blame for not being allocated some means of supplying goods, it's definitely not the government's fault, it's the opposition, because none of the 300 amendments concerned the stock.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90046	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90047	Here, dear Mr. Vice President, I want to correct one claim by my colleague Lesar when he says out of these billions and 40 million kuna that not charging is 1%. I also said in my presentation in front of my club that some 380 million kunas were questionable. For example, 244 million from the buyers, 120 million from that is the value of NA-MA. I believe that "NA-MA" is certain whether today can be a quality charge. Also, 240 million kuna in demand for goods came when INA was cleaned. INA had claims from Petrokemia, so when it was sold to MOL, it transferred to stock stores and here I think that last year those claims of 240 million went into ownership shares of Petrokemia. Also, shares and shares in the capital of 90 million and this 197 million, respectively, are the funds paid into the state budget from the sale of wheat, however more the Directorate of the stock market has no account and goes over the treasury and is simply being held as a claim. These are the funds that are certainly remunerated.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90048	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90049	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here's a few sentences I'd say about this report. But I would really ask when a debate on stockpiles to try to discuss them competently because I think the debate on them that will come to mind for a daily political purpose is not going to do anyone any good. Neither the world began in 2000 nor it started in 2004 or 2003, but Croatia has existed since 90. If we're discussing stock supplies, then we'll discuss it from the very beginning, but in one way I'd say correct. And I would most of all agree with Mr. Tomic's debate if he hadn't turned into political waters and then stressed from 2003, 2004 to 2006 perfection without defect and all that, let's do it a little bit. If we're going to discuss it correctly, then we're going to go to a proper debate and I'm going to try to do the best I can in that part. First of all, I personally entered the biggest clashes in 2000 with my colleagues from the government and especially with the Minister of Economy. Because you need to know who's a little bit more familiar with the law who's in charge of the supply. The Ministry of Agriculture did not have any jurisdiction but is in the system of jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy. Unfortunately, it manages very important agricultural products that are extremely important for market regulation. If it were me, I'd say very objectively that we too from the Ministry of Agriculture were directly interested. On my initiative, there were first controls in stockpiles that resulted in very clear things. They were also recorded here on page 9, which was control in May and June 2000. And it was a real minus of 146 million kuna where there was crime and thieving. Where people used to be unfortunately, where they were also mentioned by taking from the supply supply that it was to whom... And it's no problem, and it's good that 400 applications were filed then, as you said during that period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That everything that has been done has been defined and submitted. Because I think we all agree on crime here and the thief has to get rid of it. And there's no one as right as it happened to take it. I think that's where we started. What I'm saying and I'd like to say is that it happened on 11 July 2002 when a law was passed that made the division between market and strategic stock. No country has led together in our environment since 2000 and has managed strategic and market supplies other than Croatia in that part of the law. Then we could make a division and say, What is a strategic stock has no right to touch anyone because what is it for? That's what it's for when it's an elemental accident, don't give God war. And whoever takes a pound of wheat, the meat of anything should go to the wall. Because then it's a strategic stock and that's how certain things are conducted. I think those things are defined. And I can tell Mr. Tomic who... From 2004 to 2006 if I speak well of stock. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Things have been defined. I'd say we got rid of most of the crime and thieving, but let's be correct. Let's not put things down on day-to-day political matters. There is much to be said, and I strongly assure you, because I personally worked on it from 2000 to 2004. I think we are now in a situation where we have to solve these problems objectively in which they are spoken and which colleagues have talked about certain things that need to be monitored in the right way. Let's see what's going on with those gaps they're pulling. They create error. When someone sees that a billion kuna or I don't know, 600 million dubiosis, I mean, it creates a delusion. Let's clean this up. Leave very clear what strategic stock means? How is she managed? I'd be happy if certain things that went through stock were not happening, but for interventions, however, sometimes it's necessary. As a result, there are in certain ways other agencies that have to deal with this. I hope that will happen in Croatia and that we will avoid all those situations that have happened to us. I think this report is from 2000 to 2006 the way it's real in that displayed state. We can take it into knowledge because it defined certain things, but there must be a lesson for the future in the part where I mentioned that we really bring stock into full function in that strategic part that they need to mean in every country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90050	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for an individual debate of 10 minutes. The word has a respected representative, Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90051	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what we've heard today. We have seen that a quality report can be read in different ways depending on the position, depending on political options and unfortunately, although here is a fellow Pankretic calling for no politics, but unfortunately politics always does. So if we're talking about a period of the last few years that, here's what I know really before I can see from the report then we need to talk about a really big rationalisation in stock stocks not just a number of employees. Here's even the rationalization of the warehouse, bringing these warehouses into some sort of normal state because there was everything there. Then there's a big savings. But also filling in supplies in one way that may well be, which is actually quite good. And that's the same compensation. Here were the quality compensations where, I don't know, the blankets were obtained, the necessary material because the company that owed her couldn't give anything else. So that's one way to get the goods together. I think we should have maximum confidence in this administration because the report shows that it's actually become really transparent now. If we're talking about credit carding for bankruptcy and we've heard a lot of this today about showing up, normal bankruptcy takes a long time, then we should also remember the way in which wheat and corn are actually, for which they've been alienated. And that was that it was consciously going to form a fax company, in other words companies that had neither employees nor anything else and assigned them large quantities of wheat and corn and then clearly that very quickly it turned out that this company had gone bankrupt and could not return. And unfortunately, it was still very, very long. But obviously we're surprised. Indeed today supplies and sometimes supplies should be observed differently. At the time of the shortage, in times of war and war when it was difficult to get to the stock was really to watch out for supplies. You should've had those supplies. Today you have dozens and dozens in Zagreb, only in Zagreb goods houses where the government can intervene in the moment. And get the necessary supplies they might need. So there's no need to be a huge amount of, I don't know, meat breakfasts, pâtés that were formerly brought to the army. At least I remember we ate canned and 10 years old at the same time. It's gone and it doesn't have to be because it's supposed to be the minimum. Yeah, it's in the last millennium, sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So we always have to keep in mind that all these companies that have tents, that have everything that's most necessary, that we can get to a large amount in a moment. That way there's savings, you don't have to pay the warehouses much. We don't have to have a supply and we finally get new products when we need them. He would not only agree with his colleague Pankretić, it is a bit too far-fetched that every kilogram of strategic supplies should be placed in front of the wall because I think that since the stock market started, up until a few years ago, we would have reduced quite a number of residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90052	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vesna Škare-Ozbolt. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I still have a few words to say that really doesn't fit at that time outside the club. First of all, I want to thank you here during this period and the warehouses and those people who keep our warehouses, but also these 18 people who work in the administration, who really do work hard and professionally. Simply what Mr Pankretic says is that this topic should not be put into daily political purposes, simply on the basis of this report and as Mr Lesar said the last report we had in '99. So from 2000 to 2006 or to this day, it is simply impossible to distribute that part in these reports because in 2004, after 2003, I came personally there and in some ways all these problems and experienced and lived with them. Under what objective state in the stock reserves is what this report says, so much goods, so much value, 400 million, and I think the situation is what it is, and it's certain that we believe that the situation will be much, much better. As far as these warehouses are concerned. Those warehouses must be noted to be being dragged back in '93. A year. And what I said at the time of the war and also after the war of '93. Until '97. through stockpiles, the state reacted to crops, helped certain areas. After the war, the sea went to Podunavlje and, in any case, to the employees of the Department of Stocks, they simply cannot give goods without registering it and not putting it in demand. I have to look back on this period since 2004. I said that this government, or the Department of Stocks, had implemented 63 government decisions. Malta doesn't at every other session we have some sort of supply topic. And indeed that course has been continued. We simply can't do anything because we're under the government by law, and we're organized in the Ministry of Economy. Surely I must commend the intervention buy-in of the hero. We solved the market in 2004 and bought 2 thousand 500 pounds of heroin. We removed this meat from the market and thus simply defined and confirmed what an intervention buy means to remove goods from the market so as not to drive prices wild. And we did it with four men with minimal help from the Office of State Administration in the county that had the task just to secure our loading ground. Everything else was carried out by management workers very simply with as little paper as possible. It's also a buying-in of wheat. In 2000, 40 workers worked day and night, Saturdays and Sundays, buying about 170 or 200 thousand tons of wheat, listing books, listing people. It's a huge job. We bought 320 thousand tons of wheat with warehouses 145 warehouses. That's what my gentlemen did to three men. The man who controlled the papers, Mary, who made it all the Virmanes and Lila who put it all in the table. It's just the process, and that's why I said, stockpiles aren't 18 people in the principal, the stockpiles are really these people on the ground. And in the preparation of this ransom and through the whole ransom we have guaranteed both the Minister of Agriculture and the Department of Stocks that there won't be a single kilo because simply a kilo can't be missing, a kilo can be missing if there are games on the outside and inside. We've simply changed people and these people who are doing this work have really done a great job. And they put that wheat in 40 silos. After that, a prelocation of 120,000 tons. It's 4000 800 tours or 4000 800 trucks that have to be made in a month, because we have soy harvests and soy harvests, sunflowers, corn harvests. And just with all those carriers, we did it so there's absolutely not one kilo, not one lip missing. Even more to some carriers, however, drained the wheat out of the truck, and they were burdened and they submitted it. And indeed here is this opportunity for all these people who participate in this philosophy, meaning in the business of the State Stocks as they should really be, they should be welcomed and congratulated. When just mentioning unnecessary red tape for the sale of wheat to the state, it took 5 papers, very simple, a list of quality and price manufacturers, a common noose, a statement by the organiser, a stockpile, and its account. There were legal persons who came to the Directorate to bring all the necessary documentation, the same day the Maltas didn't get the money on their hands. And we managed to make it there somewhere until 17th, 18th Malta not through our organizers to pay over 19,000 agricultural producers. And I'm sure the employees, as well as the producers who brought the malt papers neatly not in 10 days, that job was done. Here's that wheat no more malt. It was sold on the domestic market. And I'm sorry there's no record in the 2004, 2005 and 2006 tables because where you have the sale of goods, stock supplies should have seen the financial indicator. In 2005, it went after 1.14, 2006 by 0.92 on the domestic market and on the foreign market 0.93 and 0.94. And that job is about done. And here's how we're gonna do this job. And it's a strong message to everyone on the ground that simply strategic supplies, to stock supplies, that the property of the state simply cannot be taken and handled. And as someone mentioned, it's visible. I'll take the expensive stuff when I'm cheap to get it back, etc. It was all in those stockpiles. But I think we've sent a strong message that it's gone. On the other hand, if we give someone the goods to keep us safe, we can't tell the family of '98, the family of '99, we can't say the goods broke down because I paid for it, I paid for it, and I want my goods back. Unfortunately, and that's why I said, probably the former minister was a little offended by that 0.56 kuna model, the '98 goods. It's not good at the warehouse and you paid him both the warehouse and the fumigation. And we changed that philosophy. I can't force my warehouse to fumigate or control the house. All those houses are legal people who know their jobs. He's my warehouse and there's no other people, I can't work for fumigation contests, then fumigation is late, then the warehouse says e 15 days the heat's eaten etc. I'll pay you two annual fumigations, I'll pay you a warehouse, and I'll ask you nicely for 15 years, 15 years of the same weight, and the quality calculation has to come back. All contracts in the Directorate for Stocks for wheat and corn are non-genuine. It has a culture of wheat of no kind. Who will guard the wheat today in 2002, 2003? That's bullshit. There's a new harvest coming, so you can do it again with new goods and it's responsible for both quantity and quality. In 100 years, in 100 years, it has to come back. We also help the economy by restoring corn. We have some amount of corn. I remember one year the corn went with a price on the kuna and a half with a trend of growth and simply that intervention on the market helped stabilize it. However, all those years since 2004, in 2006, there is no way not to return one kilo of wheat, there is no way not to return one kilogram of corn. The guarantee of the bank is a condition for that goods to return, so if they don't return, then the legal services will do their job. As far as oil and petroleum products are concerned, we need to have them anyway, because as far as I know, this law on the oil and oil market needs to be provided by 2012. We oil and oil derivatives have, very high-quality contracts with those who keep us safe because we absolutely don't pay for the storage of oil, 25% of the warehouses use, from 5.12. to 10.1. simply have to have that amount. During this period of 25%, they should be used at cost because oil is very difficult to store so that we also avoided these costs to the state. When we learned about, not when we got it, we simply came up with the idea that the damaged peasants in Slatina, Virovitica and Bednja that famous deposit that had no legal power simply went into bankruptcy, into liquidation, people lost 500 kilos, tons, tons and a half, of the same stock from market surpluses. We simply brought these people back, and this process is still about 5,000 tons today. Normally, not everyone is going to pick up their goods right away, but they're going to lift as much as they need and here's how the same thing I know the state has shown its social sensitivity, and also we can't leave the last one that absolutely no one protects him in... Like I said, in all jobs there are quality instruments and contract-making and really. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we have to be honest and say that not only these manifests. You have a manifesto and with bank guarantees, someone will bring you the original guarantee of a bank that can be fake, etc. All possible ways to commit fraud. However, during this period, Europe's first stock stock conference was held last year. I think we should still be proud that both Macedonia and Estonia, and Ukraine, are simply looking for our help in organising their supply supplies, but also those humanitarian aids that we've been sending to the world for all these 17 years, and we're also helping in our area, I think it can be pride and I believe that when it was, that massacre in Beslam, we've put together a humanitarian in four hours and together with the plane of the ambassadors of the Russian Federation sent as a sign of attention and as a sign of compassion and a nice gesture of help to Beslam and that... Kids. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's so much for stockpiles. I think we also have the strength, we also have the knowledge to move on, and I believe that the government will also provide the means that these stock stores are really doing their job as they need to be. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90054	The word has a distinguished representative, Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90055	Mr. President, here I will confirm Mr. Tomic's claim that he had a good exposure like this. Annual accounts were also made with a management report for 2001 and 2002, but were not sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for consideration and adoption. In 2004, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a balance sheet of strategic stockpiles of the complete and balance sheet from 2004 to 2008. The annual accounts of the financial report for 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 were drawn up and delivered to the competent ministry, the State Audit Office and the Financial Agency. The annual accounts of State goods stocks for 2003, 2004 and 2005 were submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the adoption and establishment of a report on the management of goods stocks and, after reviewing the meeting of the Council of Commodities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, discussed and accepted the annual accounts with the management report. In 2003, the Office for Internal Control of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report on the legality of the business of the Ministry of Economy, the Directorate for Stocks relating to the renewal of the wheat of state goods stocks at the end of 2002 and 2003. The Office identified the following irregularities in the surveillance carried out. I'm talking about the last government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Strategic Stocks Act. Namely, the Directorate did not submit a proposal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a new balance sheet of strategic commodity stocks within 30 days of the entry into force of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law did not refer to the proposal for an annual programme of strategic commodity stocks for the period 2001 to 2003. The Government of the Republic of Croatia for adoption. Articles 9, 10 and 17 of the Law have not been followed. Despite the absence of the annual programme and the relevant decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Directorate concluded contracts for the renewal of the wheat of state goods supply with 11 companies with a total value of 28 thousand 700 tonnes, of which 27 thousand 735 tonnes were realised. The government has made the following basic features of state supply operations since 2003. Excess of income and income generated in relation to expenditures, reduction of material expenditure, reduction of claims from customers and by reprogramme, reduction of commitments on loans, continuous renewal of goods of strategic commodity stocks, sales of market stock, sugar, juniper meat and intervention buying-in, and part of the ransom wheat continued in 2007. Here's the difference between last government and present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90056	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90057	Thank you, Mr. President. I was glad to get this systematicly written and correctly written report. Although I have nothing to compare it with, the last one was in 2000 or 1999, and I wasn't here. But the data that's in here, I'm guessing it's what my colleague said were real and real. However, it turns out from the discussion that it's obviously been done on principle these years, so it's not for me, it can be done as anyone wills. Namely, supplies should today be a billion and 104 million kunas. They're moving somewhere around 500 million kuna. The state budget should renew them annually with approximately 200 million kuna. Not one of these years, not a single swear has been found in that item, which tells us a few things about ourselves. Every year we vote a bunch of plans, declarations, strategies and each one of them draws some money. And that's one discussion. It is a discussion of our principles, our principles, of how we want to organise the state, including the fill-in of the stock. And the second discussion begins when the state budget comes. Well, then the government doesn't wonder, at least not from the parliamentary majority. And, gentlemen, what about these declarations, what about these definitions, what about those stock supplies that should be filled out? Then the budget is voted by acclaiming most of course, i.e. by a definitive rejection of the minority. I'm not saying it's just a situation right now. Such a situation was likely in the past term. And to look after the state budget and watch out for state money, and this is about state money, taxpayers' money is our primary function. Everything else is secondary functions. The policy objective and the way policy works is to take money from citizens through taxes and other donations and distribute it where it should. Now, if the legislative body, which controls the way that the division does not carry out its function and does not ask its government, well, I stress my government, so the government of the majority, if the majority of parliament does not ask its government, wait for people, so what have you done with that money, how have you spent that money, then does not perform its representation function. Signing up from the stock reserve is an eclectic example of that. Booking is a very nice word and it actually means it's gone. Gone, ate a cat, disappeared. Well, you know that joke, what a kid knows, what's five tons of copper? Well, he doesn't know. Taken away by a child for five tons. There, gone. It disappeared, or it was mostly registered, so that these companies went bankrupt. Some of them on this list, and I know how they went bankrupt and who profited from that bankruptcy. I wonder if in this situation as well as in other situations when the state money was spent, like this, it's not my chachino, whether a black list has ever been made so that this company and this company owner will never get a chance to do business with the Croatian State again. I'm not sure that's the case. If you were to analyze the owners of these companies that went bankrupt, I believe you would find a good number of the same names among the current warehouses, you want respected entrepreneurs with whom the Croatian state operates. For two, I know. I recognized two of them from this way, I know about them. Why is that? Why hasn't Parliament asked the government for eight years what the government has done with the stockpiles? Does the government keep that? Does the Government treat it as it is said, with the care of a good master? Or does the government already spoil it the way he thinks it should, to his friends, to his acquaintances, to his suitable companies, to my city's companies and to that effect? Why hasn't Parliament ever asked that? Well, for one very simple reason. For the reason this House's reputation is at the bottom. In all the media, not just in the media, with citizens, because the government is not responsible for this House, gentlemen, not to be fooled. This Parliament is responsible for the government and in this Parliament it is happening that the government ministers are yelling at the MPs and applauding them. It's never happened in this House since '90. It never happened that the parliamentary majority asked their government, wait, wait, you were obliged to give us a report, were you obliged to rebalance the ZERP budget? You didn't do it. Why didn't you do it? It's like an opposition function. And that should be the function of the majority. If it were the function of the majority, this Parliament would have a much greater reputation, this Parliament would mean a lot more in the state, and no such registration would happen. Of the 152 men here, certainly all these companies that have been signed off or gone bankrupt, someone knows about everyone. If I know about two, colleague Lesar knows about five, colleague Kapraljevic knows about two etc., everyone knows about everything. For all, when they were entrusted with stock supplies. One of us knew there was no point in giving it there, that it was throwing it into the wind, that the thing had failed. If this report encourages such a way of thinking, then it has achieved its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90058	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90059	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I would start this sad story that cost Croatian citizens an average of 200 million every year in a pretty funny way. He's got a job, now don't give me a bug in the name of a man, and he's got a job, Djoco. I tried it with Ivica, Eve, so no one would find himself offended, and then I said, there's no one here who's Djoco... [[Don't do it, Djoko.]] He hired Djoco as a warehouse, and he's guarding that warehouse. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Last year, the director came in, he's making an inventory, there's a ton of flour missing. So, Djoko, how does that not have a ton of flour? Djoko said, "Well, Director, here are the mice, I defend it, I don't let them eat, but behold, they eat, eat and eat." Is it a ton of flour? That's a ton of flour. And good. The director saw there was no other. They break down or write down flour. He kept Djoko working as a warehouse. It's been a second year. They're making an inventory. There's less than 800 kilos of sugar missing. So says the director, so how's Djoco? Last year, a ton of flour, this year, 800 kilos of sugar? So he says, Director, I looked after the flour, but here, mice came, ate the sugar. And what the director's gonna do. He's seen no others, they're writing down 800 kilos of sugar. And keep him working as a warehouse. It's the third year. They're making an inventory. There's 500 kilos of pepper missing. The director's coming. So, what now, why now? So he says, "Governmental mouse again," and he says "mouse and pepper." So he says you can't trust the directors to cry and eat, normally. Normally, they wrote down and that pepper. Gentlemen, every year we write down peppers, and flour, and sugar, every year 200 million we write down. And I'm not saying that this government or any other government is to blame. Now we've heard that goods are doing well. I just want this debate today to encourage us to come up with a different stocking strategy. The other conditions are, it's no longer a war environment, it's no longer some transition crossing, yet we're a different state and we also have shopping centers that have some stock to start our commitment, a congregation commitment to stockpiling. It means that we, the 200 million we need each year, budgeted them to do our part and then watch how they manage with those resources. Let's change the strategy and give them a chance to work normally and to master with supplies.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90060	Thank you. It was in Osijek, there's this institution called Djoko One, Djokica, you know. ... There's one who's been out of stock since the sparrows ate so much, it's proven by the court way. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] These are large quantities of wheat eaten by sparrows. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But those who have two big teeth and a long tail eat too much. You're a wrinkle. Replica is a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90061	Well, here's a colleague of Capraljevic, as the president himself wonders, or explains on this trail, you mention some mice and then the registration. But my colleague, I'm surprised to you that you're amazed at this writing, both by mice and so on. You know, when you've been standing around for a long time, there's a kalo in every store, and that's a good part, I think, and that's why.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90062	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90063	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank my colleagues, I know how to potassium. But that's where it's dialed in order. I'm supposed to start from what year I'm supposed to start, but I can only go back to 2006 anyway, it's the same thing in all the years, about 200 million calibers every year. So if we start with the basis of that court ruling that they closed, the bankruptcy proceedings and the rest closed, and then when we go to HZ Zagreb, you did not go into bankruptcy. They're listed like this. Well, Morh, you're listed like this. It's not exactly that kalo in all cases. So then there goes "Volocica" Gospić they went into bankruptcy, so INA Zagreb did not, and then "Agrokoka" by judgment, then "Koka" decision of the Government, then "Donat" concluded bankruptcy and that kalo is quite stretching in these reports. In any case, some have made a very good profit on the stock and are very likely not to call it but to gain weight.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90064	And how many defendants were released by skilled defenses that proved that they were unreally approved and that at least 50% of the kalo should have been realistic. ... Those bad droughts in February when they come. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then we'd close the debate on this wheel and move on to the next point. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Third, a report on the state and management of stock stocks for the period 2000 to 2006 with individual, annual reports and financial indicators. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the state and management of stock stocks for the period 2000 to 2006 with individual annual reports and financial indicators is hereby adopted. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 91 for, 2 abstentions, 13 against the accepted proposed report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90067	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, the government proposes the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Regulation of the obligations of the former Soviet Union under the accounts relating to goods, the trade in goods between the former Soviet Union and the former SFRY with the final draft of the law. The basis for determining the claims made by the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the clearing debt of the former Soviet Union was contained in the memorandum on the regulation of mutual financial claims by accounts related to the trade between the former Soviet Union and the former SFRJ in Moscow on 17 September 2003. Thus, the memorandum established a total final balance of a billion and 291 million 951 thousand clearing dollars and calculated it into US dollars today according to a rate that was one clearing dollar worth 0.625 U.S. dollars and the conversion of the total debt was set at 807 million and 469 thousand US dollars. The memorandum also established the former debt schedule between former members of the former SFRY and, in accordance with the conflict agreement between the countries where the Republic of Croatia received 23% of that debt, respectively, the amount of 185 million, 718 million, 076,83 U.S. dollars, respectively. Therefore, the government adopted the Regulation on the publication of the memorandum in question at a session held on 20 May 2005. Then, of course, negotiations for the conclusion of an agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of these obligations so that for these 185 million US dollars, the Republic of Croatia can obtain from the current government or be compensated from the current Government of the Russian Federation. In multiple negotiations, three options were actually given. The first option was therefore that it could be given in cash through an emergency payment of 20 to 25 years, which is actually an extremely long period, by paying off through the delivery of agreed goods that are not stock goods over a period of 10 years and paying off in agreed goods in a reduced period of time with the application of a 25% discount for stock goods. Stocks are therefore considered gas, oil and anything expensive that can be resold very quickly on the stock market. In that sense, we, or the Government, tried to create a negotiating position in a way that could reach a 100% debt amount. So 185 million U.S. dollars in a way that we've also identified interests in equipment for construction of a $105 million thermopower plant, multi-purpose helicopters worth $65 million and gas pipeline equipment worth $15.7 million. In the event that this realization cannot be implemented, the same may be replaced by other projects. So it's agreed that the delivery... the goods in this case will be in a 5-year period with an annual amount of $37 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in this respect, there would be no discount of 25% proposed by the Russian Federation and after long negotiations, it was found in fact that such a form and way of beating the debts was possible and the Government of the Russian Federation decided on 29 April 2006 to sign an agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the former Soviet Union's obligations under the accounts relating to the trade between the Soviet Union and the former Soviet Union. And on the basis of all decisions made by the Government, Finance Minister Ivan Shuker signed the agreement in Moscow on 24 July 2006 and on 29 December 2006 the Protocol on the determination of goods and services to be delivered at the expense of the settlement of the debt of the Russian Federation. In this sense, you have before you a law that should confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the regulation of those obligations in the way that it is explained now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90068	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget and Legislativeness. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Zeljko Nenadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90069	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the regulation of former commitments, the former Soviet Union and the trade of goods. The Croatian Democratic Community Club and representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community Club will vote for this law because all legal assumptions for the payment of Russian debt to the Republic of Croatia need to be created. And the legal assumptions were as follows: first of all, you heard from the secretary of state, it was a memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all other governments of the former SFRY and the government of the Russian Federation, which established a Croatian claim of 23% compared to the total clearing debt of the former Soviet Union to the former SFRY. Following the signing of the memorandum, the issue was finally to be settled and this was done by an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the regulation of the former Soviet Union's obligations under trade-related accounts between the former Soviet Union and the former SFRJ. So this agreement has actually established how much this debt, the real debt, and all those regulatory norms have been established on the basis of which this debt will be settled. After the agreement was implemented in part on 29 December 2006, a protocol was concluded between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation and the Ministry of Economy, Development and Trade of the Russian Federation on the establishment of a list of goods and services to be delivered at the expense of the settlement of the Russian Federation's debt to the Republic of Croatia. So all legal assumptions were created to collect Russian debt to the Republic of Croatia. Why do you need this law? In fact, this law confirms the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the regulation of the obligations of the former USSR of the accounts relating to the trade of goods between the former USSR and the former SFRJ in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. And that's the whole point of this law. So this law is needed to ensure that all those legal assumptions made by the memorandum, the agreement, the implementation of the regulation, and that they can actually approach the collection of the debt of the Russian Federation to the Republic of Croatia. There's a question here why an emergency procedure? Well, the reason is simple. Taking into account the fact that the Russian Federation has already completed its internal legal procedure, it is also necessary to end domestic legal proceedings in the Republic of Croatia in order to comply with its provisions as soon as possible. Finally, I can express my personal satisfaction that by implementing this agreement on the payment of the debt of the Republic of Croatia to the Russian Federation, the basis of the agreement and the protocol, most of the funds will be spent on the construction of the fourth block of the Sisak thermal power plant, which, apart from the economy, will have significant effects on the air quality of Sisak and the surrounding area, because the fuel for this part of the thermal power plant will be gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90070	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90071	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. Although there was a full explanation, I would not even answer for this discussion because I think simply one such agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Russian Federation should be supported. Through this "ex" surplus to Yugoslavia, according to this $807m debt to Croatia belongs to those 23%, as the secretary of state said, and that is the $185.7m. We also see this debt under this agreement, it will be settled in goods in five years. So we can, maybe before. So a yearly circus of $37 million. What's certainly good is that as a bank, the Croatian Post Bank is elected as we call it the state bank. Article 5 is said that deliveries from the Russian Federation to the Republic of Croatia goods and services on behalf of the settlement of interest amounts are made on the basis of individual export and import contracts, as follows: contracts concluded between Russian suppliers and Croatian customers, which are determined by each party in accordance with national legislation. That's why I came forward because I was interested in what these goods were, or what the services were. Now my predecessor, the secretary of state, mentioned before me that 105 million dollars will be invested in construction equipment now hears the 4th block of the Sisak refinery, not refineries, but thermal power plants. Then 65 million dollars goes for the purchase of Russian helicopters, means the military equipment of the Croatian Army, and 15.7 million dollars for the pipeline. Now the question is whether it's better to choose that military equipment, Russian technology, or maybe it'd be smarter, even with a 25% discount, to bring in these stockpiles that could be easily spent and returned to the price, even though it's always a clear question why a discount if someone is in debt I don't know how many years it's worth $185 million. What do you say to the end? That the Russians would probably have to build a monument for life. He resolved the external debt and the stock reserves significantly increased. Returned the respect to Russia, and with countries or countries of ex-Yugoslavia it was also the logic of Clearing to solve the debt by exporting its goods. A clear contract should be supported. But I said the question is whether maybe some other goods could be higher than this military equipment, etc. bring to Croatia. Although it is clear to each of us that we should begin and to say again that the Croatian Army is equipped with more modern technical means. All in all, it is good that Croatia can count on the return of the $185.7m.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90072	Dear Representative Marko Širac. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. The final proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the regulation of the obligations of the former Soviet Union under the accounts relating to the trade in goods between the former Soviet Union and the former SFRJ. I am voting on the final draft of the law. To vote. The result? With 102 votes for, 4 abstentions passed proposed bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90075	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. The proposed law introduces the same way as paying a residence tax for homeowners and holiday dwellings of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and citizens of the Member States of the European Union and of the European Economic Area. This means that the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union and of the European Economic Area, unless otherwise specified by the international contract, will allow citizens of these countries to pay a residence tax under the same conditions as for Croatian citizens, i.e. either in an annual flat-rate or per night in which the residence tax is reduced by 70%. The Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development also assessed the legitimate proposals to determine areas within individual classes of tourist sites in order to enable local communities themselves to assess whether a tourist site should be zoned in their area. The decision is taken by the representative body of the local self-government units on a proposal from the tourist community, and the restrictions in making that decision relate to the first range of coefficients. Namely, the amount of coefficients in the lowest zone within the tourist site class cannot be lower than the coefficient established for the first next lower class of tourist resort. Two, can be defined up to three zones within one class of tourist resort. And three, in the D class of tourist resort you can't determine the zone. The representative bodies of the local self-government unit shall deliver the decision to determine the area, i.e. the level of the coefficients, to the competent tax administration, the State Inspectorate and the tourism ministry. The proposed changes will ensure a more efficient payment and payment of a residence tax from homeowners and apartments for the holiday of foreign citizens, better monitoring of tourism traffic, allow for faster and simpler inspection of supervision and compliance of our legislation with European Union regulations, which in particular means the principle of non-discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90076	Committee on Tourism, on behalf of the Committee on Tourism, Honored Representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90077	Thank you. At its 41st session held on 14 June 2007, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence tax with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 16 May 2007, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law in an urgent procedure. The opening statement on the reasons why amendments and additions to the Law on residence tax are proposed in an emergency procedure, with the explanation of new solutions and legal institutes, was submitted on behalf of the promoter, Mr Robert Penda, assistant minister at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. In the general debate on the need to adopt the proposed law, it is stated that it needs to be adopted as quickly as possible because the proposed solutions, in particular those relating to the zone of tourist resorts, respecting the criteria of the activity of individual units in that place, the proximity of the beach, availability, traffic connection, etc. Substantially justified. In a very substantive debate on the text of the proposed law, a number of proposals and initiatives have been highlighted due to more effective collection of the residence tax. Especially in the field of nautical tourism, when it comes to boat staying in natural coves where no connections or other facilities are organised for the needs of boaters. In particular, the debate stressed that it is necessary to adopt a strategy for the development of nautical tourism, which would determine the acceptance and potential of the Croatian coast. Or how many tourist ships of different sizes that coast can accept on anchoring at all. This is all because of the preservation of valuable marine goods and the prevention of pollution. Mr Zdenko Antešić, a member of the Committee, raised doubts as to the possibility of implementing the proposed law referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 1 when it comes to providing services in the nautical part of the port which is open to public transport. After the debate was held, the Committee on Tourism reached a conclusion proposing to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90078	Thank you. The HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90079	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, Assistant. It is precisely these short changes and additions to the Law on residence tax that one important step has been taken precisely in the development of decentralisation, and in the way that one big step has been taken in terms of giving local communities the opportunity to assess whether a tourist site is needed in their area and if the decision is made by the representative body of the local self-government unit on the proposal of the tourism community which strengthens and increases the responsibility of the same and of the tourist community, but also of the representative body for its own development and for its own collection of financial resources because, as 19.5% is known, they retain for themselves from the total funds collected and for a particular purpose which is defined by law used to establish a settlement in the function of tourism, to improve the conditions of tourism in the tourist site, and to promote tourism in the area of the municipality or city. This big step, of course, has certain limits as the restrictions apply when making a decision to the range of coefficients which cannot be determined in the lowest zone within the development of the tourist resort, cannot be lower than the coefficient established for the first next lower class of tourist resort and can be determined at most three zones within one class of tourist resort. A number of and justified observations by the tenant of the so-called They were referring to whether their facility was located near the waterfront, far from the waterfront, whether it was necessary from that facility to sit in a car to eat ice cream and drink juice on the waterfront, whether it was located below and above the road, whether it was in the hinterland of the city as it stands out here in the intro or it is located on the waterfront. Of course, such a step encourages this very approach because the legislator and legislator are increasingly hearing about what is happening precisely in this living economic, or tourist activity. Of course it also encourages the fact that we want to achieve a non-discriminatory legislation and that is, in relation to the citizens of the European Union, that is, the European Economic Area. The proposed amendments to the laws propose the same way of paying the residence tax for homeowners and holiday dwellings of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and citizens of the Member States of the European Union of the European Economic Area. So far on the ground and in practice, it has been experienced that these foreign owners avoid in different ways of paying the residence tax, and therefore it was indeed justified that they pay the residence tax in a different way than the domestics in the flat-rate amount or as the domestic citizen paid when the residence tax was reduced by 70%. Of course, in this way, it wants to improve and make more effective payment and payment of residence fees from homeowners and holiday apartments, foreign citizens, better monitoring of tourist traffic, but also here mentions what should be indirectly linked and with the adoption of spatial plans of municipalities and cities when it comes to charging at accommodation facilities in the ports of nautical tourism and is mainly determined by what these are accommodation facilities within the meaning of this Act. Of course, the end should come here and those bonds that take advantage of the pie coves, where anchoring is not allowed. It is very clear that the county spatial plans should be responded to, and according to them, municipal and urban spatial plans are defined exactly where such ships can be anchored, where they can be nightly and where they can be charged. It is very clear that it is necessary to strengthen the responsibilities of municipalities and cities that should have their municipal inspectors and those who in such places, in such waves threw anchors and wanted to spend the night, not to pay a residence fee to distance them in one decent way and direct them to the port of nautical tourism or to an port open to public traffic so that it can be determined and charged not only by a tourist tax, but also by the separation of garbage, electricity, water and, therefore, an even greater responsibility of municipalities and cities in this respect. Of course another very precise space has been brought here, which is camping outside the camp when various events occur, outdoor events. It is very clear to say that the time and place where it can be camped for the duration of such events local self-government needs to be very precise and clear cannot constantly be a reason for not charging such relationships, non-chalant relations I would say many local self-governments and public institutions that manage a particular area. But then again, the initiative should start from tourist resorts that know the best places and how to camp and charge campers for events, because if there is no camping then they are not obliged to pay a tourist tax, and if that is the case then the residence tax must be charged, of course for those who live, i.e. nights for certain spaces. The organisers are obliged to take care of the obligation to charge residence fees and to report in advance to the tourist community. I would like to encourage the legislator who actually completes a set of laws with these regulations and that deadlines have been passed very precisely when the law enters into force and when this decision will apply and to whom, for example, it will be delivered to the tax administration, the competent regional unit of the inspectorates and the Ministry of the Sea, tourism and development. And that the owner of the apartment will also apply that he is obliged to pay the amount of the residence tax by 15 July of the current year in order not to disrupt this financing system at all. On 15 June, by 15 September, both members of the family may pay a fee at a flat-rate rate. The exact table, very precise so that it could actually be controlled. It strengthens the responsibility of local self-government and tourist communities, I believe, will make a very useful contribution to the development of our Croatian tourism. But I also point out that sailors should be put in frames. We need to know exactly how many Croatian Adriatic can have ships, yachts, boats. Ensure them bond, electricity connection, water, garbage transportation so they don't pollute the sea. And charge it all nicely and well under the law and regulations. And we can't back down from that. Let's just make an example of how they did it on Lake Boden or Lake Geneva. You can't buy a boat if you don't have a secure connection. And you can't have a secure bond if one ship isn't submerged and burned like in Komiza during St. Nicholas, because that's the only way we can save this substance and use it for tourist purposes. Croatian Democratic Community Club Backs This Amendment of Law and Encourages Proposers to Continue [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90080	Thank you. SDP club respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90081	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I, our club doesn't exactly share such enthusiasm with this bill as the esteemed colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club said. And I'm afraid he didn't understand well how the units of local self-government, or its jurisdiction over the sea, coves, anchors, etc. functioned. And in this respect, the local self-government unit has no jurisdiction but belongs to a maritime public welfare where an absolute unit of local self-government does not have any jurisdiction, and thus the communal directors in particular do not. So that's one question that's much more serious, and it's also a matter that needs to be discussed more seriously. Well, good. Let's go to law school. I would, before I refer to the very text of the law, refer only to a few sentences to the reasons presented here, to the adoption of this law by emergency procedure and to the clear questions that should be regulated by this law. In fact, it looks nice here that by passing the law, the differences will be lifted. benefits of Croatian citizens, house owners and holiday apartments compared to foreign citizens. This law will be brought into line with the principles of the prohibition of discrimination set out in Article 12 of the Treaty of Accession of the European Union, no, the contracts... It's supposed to be, but okay, never mind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, what am I saying? What I'm saying is that this law fully balances strangers, owners of holiday houses, and that needs to be clearly and unequivocally said. So, a foreigner who owns a holiday house and who deals with renting with domestics, so Croats who deal with it called so-called "the so-called Croatians". Households therefore rent to foreigners or guests apartments, rooms, etc., and also to citizens of the Republic of Croatia who also have holiday homes. Therefore, in the sense of paying the residence tax, it is fully equated. So we need to make it clear and inaccurate that we know what we're talking about. Second. The following is stated in the questions to be addressed by this law, or the consequences that will arise from it. Therefore, the proposed changes will ensure a more efficient payment and payment of the residence tax from homeowners and apartments for the holiday of foreign citizens. Gentlemen of the government, I think that this formulation is just out of the question, we are not in favour of this, or we recognize that we are whether, that we are a state that cannot charge fees from foreigners, are engaged in the activities of renting their apartments and holiday homes, and are working in our country. So we admit one weakness, and then the next thing you know, it's best if they don't pay for anything. Then I'm sure efficiency would be 100%. For we are therefore not, as our institutions are not able to charge from them taxes, therefore residence tax and tax, and that is one of the reasons why this law will be passed, or the effect it will cause. This formula bothers me personally, and I don't think she's good, and it's actually saying that this problem hasn't gone very well. Then that will allow faster and simpler inspection supervision. Also the same explanation. I think it's quite as questionable and problematic as it personally offends me because I can't imagine that a stranger, that strangers can't be taken under effective inspection and that therefore they need to be reduced by giving or paying a residence tax, and therefore probably also a collidation. So I just wouldn't do this, if this were like that, I just wouldn't write this because it embarrasses me. So here's what I heard today, I personally disagree with her, and we don't agree with the club, so this can be called the Law on Suiting Foreigners, Owners of Houses, Apartments and Apartments in Croatia. I'm saying, we don't agree with that form at the club. However, it is present and somehow latent in the air. Now, specifically, let me refer to the articles of this law. First of all, the introduction of zoning is the introduction of zones into these tourist classes, in places. So that's what we're commending and it's for every commendation. This is what we asked for when the Law on residence tax was passed, and then the promoter hardened on the fact that it is impregnable, that it is difficult, that the tourist communities on the ground, or local self-government, will have a lot of problems and that this is impossible. Now, thanks to the clear situation that is happening in the field of praise, it is worth the fact that the legislator has seen that need and we welcome it and we will surely support it. The second thing is also important, therefore the area of activity or facilities in which the residence tax is charged is extended. This primarily refers to places outside the camps when organising events etc. Second, it is charged, according to this proposal, that residence tax should be charged in the nautical part of the port which is open to public transport in accordance with the rules governing maritime good and seaports. In principle it's not a bad idea but it's missing here. There are no concrete instruments here that will effectively charge the residence tax. I know what I'm talking about, and I'm also president of the Board of Directors of a Port Authority and I know about the kind of relationship in these ports open to public traffic and, in fact, by the letter of this law, that should be charged by port administrations, right? I'm afraid there's a lack of meat, a lack of regulations, and I don't see how effective the way this part of the law will apply. So either a stranger or not has to be a stranger, but a citizen, a person who comes with his yacht into a relationship, so to a part of the port that's open to public transport and there at night, and who's going to charge him for it. So, who's gonna charge him, he's got to apply, who's gonna make the application, etc. There are a number of practical problems that I see here, and I think that this solution may be just and just because it is wrong for someone who doesn't pay anything at night in a port like this, but for now it is difficult to implement and needs additional mechanisms or tools to take care of so that it can be realized. It would be good if we were involved in nautical tourism where we are sworn to pass a single regulation that a boater would handle all the fees that need to be settled while entering the Republic of Croatia with his boat at one place at the time of the first entry and that would make it far simpler. Because in this case, it must report to any port authority at the time of landing, to the port captainy when registering the vessel or the first registration, as well as at the time of the check-out, etc. So he actually has to waste several times time, precious time of his annual vacation with our bureaucracy. So, in this sense, here we suggest that we think about it and that would be one valuable contribution to improving this segment of nautical tourism to consider improving this visitor's stay in our Adriatic. Here, with these remarks that we think the law is actually, the intensity is listed in these reasons for passing the law, and this is all kind of a thing, and that wouldn't actually be the law, let's just say it came down to just one little novelty. So he's good at his basic intentions, especially when it comes to the introduction of these zones. And according to this, the proposer will respect these remarks we will vote whether for or against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90082	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Krunoslav Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90083	The esteemed colleague incorrectly cited everything where it can be tied, where it can be anchored must be foreseen in the spatial plan of the municipality, the city and the county and no one is allowed to anchor the places where it is not intended. If he does so by informing any communal director, he is obliged to step away, if he does not wish to, then the inspector of the port captain or inspector from the State Inspectorate will appear. And that's where we have to insist on introducing exactly the order. And I appreciate the contribution that the county port administration should and should foresee such places if there is a connection envisaged by a spatial plan to give concession and only in that case can someone be tied up but also charged to it for a berth and charged a residence tax. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90084	That was a replica? You'll still say that on behalf of the club what you think for five minutes. ... [[Agreement: Correction.]] Then you'll say it in five minutes, let's not say it now. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He does, but he's got five minutes of discussion. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Krunoslav Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90085	Once again, I point out how useful such nomotechnical suggestions are in a law that briefly and clearly says what needs to be done. In the provisions, starting from the first, from the first article, which lists all accommodation facilities within the meaning of this law are determined very precisely by the types of catering facilities in which catering services are provided, the port of nautical tourism, the berth in the nautical part of the port which is open to public transport in accordance with the regulation governing the maritime good and sea ports and the area in which the regulation governing the catering activity is regulated, organised camping outside the camps during the maintenance of sports, cultural and similar events, houses and holiday apartments. Of course, legal and natural persons who provide accommodation accommodation accommodation accommodation services and, in the sense of this law, the proposer is also very precise about which legal and physical persons they are. I therefore consider the provisions of particular importance and which I consider to be a step further in decentralisation and financial but with regard to local self-government, is that the representative body of local self-government can, but must not, at the suggestion of a tourist council, tourist community of the city, municipalities or places, determine for a tourist destination, city, municipality, settlement zone and different amount of coefficient, tourist tax for individual zones. I believe that the tourist communities will finally become more and more responsible for their own tourism development because they will really want to determine on one side what areas they are in a position that are more and more valuable than some others who are not. It will raise quality in this way and accommodation capacity, satisfy the people they thought so far why it would pay the same amount of tourist tax, and there is no such quality facility either at the location and distance from various roads. And all of this the tourist community proposes to the representative body of the municipality of the city that will surely appreciate whether these proposals are good? Accept and thus satisfy the will of their constituents in both the municipal and city registers or earn as much money as possible that will then be allocated, precisely for the purpose strictly envisaged, which will be spent on a better arranged place for the settlement to function better. For tourists to be better, to promote tourism for the area of the municipality and the city, but not only by countless travels, they are being gnawed by the means of such a tourist community, but by a joint appearance they become regional tourist destinations which are, for example, in the Split-Dalmatin County provided for by the main tourist plan. Dalmatia as it used to be, or the Mediterranean as it used to be, is an important cohesion factor in developing our tourism in this direction, as well as increasing the responsibility of all those involved who are responsible for tourism development. What needs to be pointed out in particular, and is not, does not belong to the portfolio of this promoter, what we heard today about the speaker is exactly how, in what way to stop yachts, boats, boats, anchored places that are not conditional, which are not safe for sailing, which are not intended to do that and they just want to do that, I'm talking about nighttime, day by day, and so you can go swimming wherever you want, but I'm talking about night anchors that are just to avoid paying the residence tax. And we know that in the morning after that night, that wave will be much more polluted than it was the night before. We want to highlight one responsibility of another segment exactly what we have heard today on our Committee that the strategy of tourism or nautical tourism is done, but also very precise answers should be given along with the municipalities, cities and counties that should be foreseen in their spatial plans very precisely what they want and how do they want to arrange their waves? Not just to pick up a few more kunas and this proposal says no more counting in marks, in DEMs, but in kunas, which is one step further. We see that the kuna is very solid, persistent and very well listed on the European stock exchanges, the currency exchanges. Therefore, it is precisely in this direction that we need to strengthen these proposals of laws, which, in turn, go into step with time. Because a number of objections from citizens, tourist communities, municipalities and cities, the promoter has very well formed into legal provisions, in the legal provisions of the proposal that we now have in front of us. Therefore, this proposal should understand the warning to other segments that by adopting spatial plans as soon as possible, we should determine what is the acceptable number for the Croatian part of the Adriatic that will not drag us there for a quick profit because it is a large number of yachts, boats and boats, and we will set the waves for the berth and berths. And thus enable the county port administrations to make a secure berth for all time through numerous operations in existing ports and ports. And summer and winter and barrels and south. If they were to allow those sailors who were often told I'd also be inexperienced. They just bought an expensive boat, so they want to make up a little while, and they don't know what the sea is. That they have safe flow of water, electricity, electricity, waste of garbage because by protecting the environment, we also act according to the wishes of an increasing number of European tourists to want to come to an untapped end, an unpolluted area where there is no large mass of what bothers them throughout the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90086	Thank you. The word has a respected representative of Rade Ivas. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90087	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There's a relatively short law ahead of us... On the one hand, the Law on residence tax harmonising this law with the legal property of the European Union or harmonising with the principle of prohibition of discrimination set out in Article 12 of the Treaty of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, a certain decentralisation is introduced because it is given the right or possibility for units of local self-government to zone tourist sites with regard to the level of payment of the tourist tax. The issue of residence tax is regulated by the Law on residence tax and the law regulates who is the mandatory payment of the residence tax, the conditions and methods of payment of the residence tax, the distribution and use of the funds collected, the registration and the check-out of tourists and other issues. The payers of the residence tax under this law are all owners of houses and holiday apartments, as well as all those who live in these houses and apartments from 15.6 to 15 September. And the owners of these facilities can pay the residence tax in two ways, either either at flat or at night, in which case the residence tax is reduced by 70%. But so far it has been discrimination against foreigners, because foreign citizens who own holiday homes or apartments cannot use such a way of paying a residence tax but they pay a residence tax per night without this reduction. Surely this is the way of inequality of access to foreign citizens leads to dissatisfaction, as well as failure to comply with legal obligations, payment of residence fees. I agree here with counterpart Antesic that the elements should be strengthened here so that these foreign guests really pay that tax as our citizens, means to tighten the criteria for the payment of adequate payment. In 2005, the Housing Taxi Act was amended when we introduced a new system of payment of residence fees for the tenants. Since then, we have had a lot of observations from the owners that point to the inequality of capacity filling in private accommodation, depending on where individual facilities are located. So there was an initiative to carry out the zone of tourist resorts. For surely the object shall be filled differently by him who is by the sea but by him who is, for example, behind the highway. And these very amendments and additions to the law are subject to the following questions. The same way of paying the residence tax is introduced for homeowners of foreign nationals and Member States of the European Union and European space. According to these amendments, these foreigners will be able to pay their residence tax in the same way as our citizens, meaning either flat-rate or overnight, with a reduction of 70%, with this being delayed until Croatia's entry into the European Union. This proposal was also accepted to set within individual classes of the tourist community a zone to allow units of local self-government to assess whether and allow units to assess whether or not they want to zone their tourist sites. This right is given to units of local self-government, meaning representative bodies, and on a proposal from tourist communities. In addition to these two issues, these amendments also regulated the question of camping participants events and outdoor events. Namely, the space where it can be camped out of place, as well as the conditions to be met, it is the time of such camping, will also be determined by units of local self-government. This also enables the introduction of a residence tax obligation for those who live, i.e. nights in places like this. And another thing that is possible by this law is the introduction of a residence tax and for sailors when they stay and nights in the nautical part of the port, the nautical part of the port open to public traffic, which will certainly lead to further increases in income from the residence tax. Today, the situation is such that a large number of riders from commercial ports flee to these open tourist ports, there they do not pay taxes. But there are certainly problems as technically as counterpart Antesic said how to charge in those ports those bonds. And I think we should settle that deal with the port administration, port captains, but in any case, it's a good thing it's being introduced. All in all, I consider it to be a good law, a law harmonising legislation, that is, this matter with the legislation of the European Union, which will certainly allow for the payment of tourist, residence taxes and better monitoring of tourism traffic. From all this, I think this law should be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90088	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90089	Thank you very much. Here is a colleague, Ivas, who has pointed out several times this item, in Article 1(2), which speaks of the payment of a residence tax in a part of the port which is open to public traffic. And now I'm interested in your opinion on the basis of which regulations will be implemented this part of the law. That regulation doesn't exist. So there is not a single regulation in the Republic of Croatia that regulates that there will be a residence tax. And, again, there were speeches about the possibility of a stay in the bays, etc. It's just impossible. Croatia is precisely characterized by its numerous coves, bays, etc. And there's a navigation to express myself free and there's nothing to pay for. It is second in ports, ports arranged for the reception of ships, etc. That's another question. But in free coves, there's no charge, no residence tax, no nothing. And we need to know that. Let's not go after pears and apples. Now I'm curious, try to answer me by the basis of which regulations you will charge a residence tax to someone who stands in a section of the port open to public traffic in our coves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90090	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90091	Well, my colleague Antesic, I can agree with you that there are these technical problems. I've fenced myself in my exposure to the need to solve these technical problems. I don't know now, and I can't tell by which law it's settled. But I think it must be introduced that it's a good thing to be introduced. Because the fact that yachts run from commercial ports to tie ships here, their yachts for free, and we just have to sanction it. It is likely to come up with a technical way of doing this. Whether links should also be charged in these unorganised ports, anchors, bays, and I'm not so sure that there are even more difficult, there are no conditions for a man to be provided, although he should be there, because he uses it, binds his ship and should pay that residence tax. ... But he's using the public good, he's using the coast, he's using our nature at the end of the line, and he needs to pay for it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90092	Replica, the esteemed representative of Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90093	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to us continentals, it's not clear at all. In Slavonia, we are listed chickens, sheep, cows, pigs, goats, fruit trees, everything and know exactly how many goats, sheep and all, orchards, and we cannot list objects on the coast. I can't believe it, and now we're still talking about charging in the bays. What do you mean? Come on, tell me how. And 30% I guarantee here I am coming to the sea, 30% are not listed objects that can't escape. Our goats can escape.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90094	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90095	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here's just a few words about this bill too. My colleagues have said a lot and I think that all the important provisions of this Law have been very well explained and, of course, I accept this bill with all these amendments. It is certain that this law is adopted in the framework of pre-accession negotiations and that this is one of the conditions for citizens of the European Community in this case so far we can say to the parties that we would have the same opportunities and same rights regarding the use of our holiday houses in the Adriatic. Of course, this case is used somewhere in this case to ban discrimination, even in law, in the description of the law in this front part, even though it is not written in the article, I find it a little disturbing to do so myself. I think it needs to be avoided because someone can get the impression that we really do, we are discriminating against some other entities, or citizens of other countries, which is not the case. Surely we as a sovereign state have the right to pass our laws which are primarily in the interest of the state of Croatia and its citizens. Of course I'm not repeating myself, I'd look back on just a few words, that's what my colleague Kruno Peronja mentioned. It's a question of the work of tourist communities. Mr. Secretary of State, that's what I'm asking you very directly, and I hope you'll answer me, are you satisfied with the work of the tourist communities? Did the tourist communities meet all the expectations we had when we were with them? ... No, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When we gave them certain powers in law. The fact is, it gets the impression that often those purposes are to themselves. They have safe sources of income, there's a difference, of course, we can't speak in general, but there's a difference. They have safe sources of income and I think some of the manifestations that they are doing are more manifestations that are in place to say to the public or to show that they are doing something, that they are significant, while on the subject of the arrangements and concerns for the editing and creation of the visibility of a tourist destination are very little working and very little doing. Often even their working hours are such that they are set up for workers, not tourists, not activities for which they are essentially established. This is one thing, and I think we should talk about it openly because we are even witnesses to it that the way the tourist communities work on both local, urban and county needs to be more and co-ordinated and on the very manifestations, cultural events themselves, in order for this calendar to be harmonised, and not that often in the course of the tourist season in neighbouring places we often have competitive content, we have manifestations that bother one another, I would say, that it is not taken into account that this calendar of events and cultural events would be held evenly for one longer period of time so that in the past week, all possible festivals and all possible events happen. It's about that. I would also mention here, this issue is mentioned, i.e. camping and camping in the organization of individual events. I would also extend this topic here which is not mentioned at all, but is not mentioned in the law, the bill, which is camping, or parking or stopping how to call them vonmobiles is not a very nice Croatian word, but we could say the house, moving houses on wheels. The fact that we are the kind of guests of our tourists completely, we have not considered them, they are simply nothing, nothing seems to have had any way of having appropriate stops, that they know exactly which places and which trailers they can go to because we are witnessing that more and more such guests are coming to us and they do not have the proper built infrastructure to stop in public parking, stop by the road, stop on wild beaches and so on. They are also large contaminants because they are not connected to the infrastructure, and on the other hand they are extremely well-paid guests who are certainly and willing to pay all the services, in this case parking or stopping services and for the possibility of overnighting, but we must provide them with conditions for them to have suitable places and, of course, to pay a reasonable price. Here, above all, I think that even on the present occasion, those small car camps or parking lots that are suitable for such a kind of reception of these mobile holiday homes on wheels should be kept in mind about marking on access roads. Here are my colleagues, who come from extremely touristic places, who would like to list how many tables there are, with traffic signs marked for such guests where they can be parked, where they can be stopped. I think it's the same problem that we should solve because the potential of our coast, our sea is extremely large but on the other hand we have to do on the one hand with greater and better control of inspection supervision as well as by investing not only in highway roads but also in stops and parking lots to make the effect of the tourism industry far greater than our guests. Here, so much for this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90096	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90097	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, listening to this debate me something though... In the Parliament every six months, we generally discuss the tax of residence, and each time it is claimed that the law that has come is the best. [[Specially enabled.]] The more regulations there will be less money because the obvious problem is not in the system but in disrespecting the system. The zoning is in the jurisdiction of local self-government. I'm sure all the facilities that are rented in six months will be in the "elevator" zone and no one will be zone "a", zone one, zone most expensive, because... our inventiveness that we're going to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not good when the state rules, let's go down now, then there's gonna be a mess down there, and then we'll get back to the authorities of the state. Croatian continental tourism in the developmental sense is a victim of this country's giving everything for the development of Adriatic tourism, and on income and income for a few years we will be the same. And Col. Antesic has asked him one question before, no one wants to answer him, how will it be charged in waves, bays and so on? Let's set up a sea horse to charge a stay tax there, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90098	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, was he? Replication response. Excuse me. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90099	Dear colleague Lesar. I didn't even mention the best word in any sentence. You said it was the best. In any case, this is an improvement, a legal improvement and, on the other hand, harmonisation with EU legislation. That should be made clear. On the other hand, all tourism and all the phenomena in tourism are very dynamic and variable. And therefore, it takes all new phenomena in tourism, here I am speaking, mentioning for the first time tourists who come with their... mobiles, to make me shorter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's say, so far we haven't treated this seriously, we haven't treated it seriously, and I think it's also this debate going in that direction to encourage the competent authorities to take action in that too.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90100	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90101	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! This is a revolutionary afternoon. Because while the opposition is silent or saying something, I see HDZ criticizing. That's good. It's one of the best days I've ever had in this House. When Jozo Topic calls the secretary of state and... And we actually, why don't we actually say anything? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For behold, I have not managed to tell Lesar, neither would he answer this replica, but I have not succeeded in saying, 'We have not seen each other today.' Penda convinced us on the board this morning why this law was passed? Why does he have the P.Z.E. tag?? And that says nice, page 4, says this. The adoption of the law will eliminate the difference and benefits of Croatian citizens, house owners and holiday apartments with regard to foreign nationals. This law will be brought into line with the principle of non-discrimination set out in Article 12 of the EC Treaty. Now that you know this, I'll tell you something else by the way. The next amendment to this law, or new law, will be in the new assembly of parliament next spring. Because with this law, nothing was done but what I read and P.Z.E. So there's no change. The other is a couple of posts that we've been passing the Tourism Act last week, and last week, so we don't know, the Household Activity Act on this, according to that, it's gonna be hard for us to bring it together because it's gonna get all together until I know, would it be wise to think about one Tourism Act? If it could be the Maritime Code and we're counting, on a big income from tourism, why can't someone make some kind of tourist code, that would be a lot of things. This way, you know, we're talking about this, and that's what you're even, what they're saying, it's not even the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90102	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90103	That's what we set up on the board this morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90104	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90106	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Marasovic! Well, I don't know how you could have gotten the impression that I was calling the Ministry of State or the Secretary of State. I said hello first at the beginning. ... Look out! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] With us at HDZ, and that's why I've been in HDZ since the very beginning, and I'm faithful to that, not only are we a big party, but we're an extremely broad party. And we are allowed to discuss and make suggestions and suggestions and other than those written on the bench. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90107	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90108	Thank you very much. There's no between the lines. [[Intruder: There is no between rows.]] Just what it says. Sir, Mr. Topic! You said that we are alluding to this law, to this law, I have literally written down the law on the interest of Croatia and its citizens. Now watch how much this law on the interest of Croatia and its citizens is. My Aunt Luce is 78 years old on Rab, and for 30 years she has two rooms that she rents to tourists. And next to it he bought the German house ten years ago and he deals, he has six apartments, he deals with renting guests, so that house next to her, and now you tell me which one it is, on the same terms as she, like Aunt Luce in 78 years and he's far clear because he's financially much more advanced, it's much easier for him to fill those apartments, etc. And we now, look to him now in the interest of Aunt Luca and Croatia, allow him to rent and pay the residence tax under the same conditions, etc. and the proposal does not yet need to know the Croatian language and is engaged in this activity. Here you see, it is the interest of Croatia and its citizens that we bring to this House through this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90109	Thank you. Thank God Aunt Luce is 78 years old, she's healthy and she's still hurting. Thank God. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Antešić, this is a classic example when words are drawn from the context. That's exactly what you just said. You may have heard the first part, but I was just critical of the formulation that speaks with the principle of a ban on discrimination because I said it was simply not a very convenient term, and even if it is in this front part of the description, in the reasoning of the law. Because I said, explicitly, we can say in the phonogram that Croatia has the right, that this Croatian Parliament has the right to pass laws that are in the interest of the state of Croatia and its citizens, that is. ... And I'll explain it very simply. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You know, dear colleague, we all believe in the Parliament here we have declared that we want Croatia's accession to the European Union and that's just how it is when you want to join a society, you have to pay a ticket to a club. And I take this as paying for one ticket, that's how. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90111	Aunt Luce is a great entrepreneur, she'll understand that market economy, I'm convinced. ... Thank God. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Replica, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90112	Well, here you go, dear fellow... who's already shut me down. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] So it's not just this afternoon, but there it is. It's an impression he's cheating Namely, I just wanted to say that I am sorry that my colleague Topic has a negative experience with the tourist community, I have an extraordinary experience in my town of St. Sunday on 20 thousand residents we have a permanent employee and a volunteer there is the boss, the boss, is there volunteer and it works great. All events are organised, won first prizes in the county competitions, even for which the prize is even in state competitions, the city is arranged, there are all signposts. So, if you want to be clear with the help of the headship, if you want, you can do very well and it can function perfectly without anything changing here. Obviously, a lot depends on people. Perhaps it is clear that the number of tourists is significantly smaller and there is no burden of summer, there is no parallel issue, employees often parallelly betray apartments and not only Aunt Luce whom I may be on Rab and meet here with a colleague. But there's more anxiety, but it can work with a law like that, that's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90113	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90114	Here, I'm glad there are good examples, and I'm going to suggest that some of the tourist communities visit the world on Sunday. Not only does he have a beautiful name but he obviously has a well-organized tourist community. ... He can go to Holy Mass on Sunday. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I agree with you that it depends a lot on people but the fact is also that indeed and probably, in a normative way, something must be done to more precisely define the role of the tourist community. However, perhaps here when I use the opportunity to replicate it should also be noted that the control of the very collection of the tourist community is particularly difficult from large hotels and they are very often there, so I would not like to use the hard words, but they are not the most correct and often justify how the tourist season is under way and how they have significant costs and that they are not able to pay the tourist tax or residence tax during the season. Often they pay it in some wars but only after the season, which of course makes it difficult for tourist communities to work because they do not have the right means that they could possibly have for all of these events and for all the good examples that you've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90115	Thank you. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90116	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would just like to thank you briefly for the words of support and clearly for these constructive proposals, especially colleagues, Antesic. So, in any case, the law that we are going to vote tomorrow brings some important changes and, below all, the introduction of a flat-rate tax and income tax which has brought great improvements in the registration of guests but also in the collection of the incomes themselves, and in some tourist communities we have over 50% higher incomes in the last two years. This is the third year of such payment and also according to all this, the system of tourist communities has definitely played a major role in the development of Croatian tourism. There are also positive and negative examples, most of them positive. However, the whole system counts over 330 tourist communities which municipal, urban, county and main offices and certainly there are certain things to be changed, there is intensive work and I am aware and we are all together in the ministry aware that this is going to happen unsuspectingly. However, it is easy to know that people are doing the job, that the human factor is the most crucial and that is what the colleague confirmed in this very sense. Here, thanks again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90117	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And I'm concluding today's session of the Parliament, with tomorrow's sequel at 9.30 p.m. Tomorrow we start with the 22nd item of the agenda and this is the proposal for a list of candidates for the selection of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and then the next item is the 16th item of the agenda Final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on crafts and if we reach the Annual Report on the Implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2005-2006. And the vote is tomorrow at 1:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90118	Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on residence tax. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, State Secretary Zdenko Micic. Here you go. Amendment 1 to Article 7. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90119	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. The government accepts all amendments to the MPs' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-14-0.u90120	Okay. There's three of us. They become an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. To vote. The result? With 87 votes in favour, 18 abstentions passed a law in the text as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted.
