ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88782	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There is a law before us for the first time that treats the topic of spatial planning and building but in one place. We think it's very important for all those people who are either designing or planning, but also for all those people who are building something and who want as simple as possible to get permission to build and finish their facilities. The law consists of three parts, one is a spatial arrangement, a construction and a third urban commission. For the first time in our country, we are proposing one way to prepare land and solve the problems of those locations on which units of local self-government or individual citizens want to do something without being able to do it now. As far as spatial planning is concerned, everything remains more or less the way we have suggested, as we have so far. So, you make spatial plans for the county, you make spatial plans for cities and municipalities, you make more detailed plans. What is important is the harmonisation of our legislation with the European Union and the strategic assessment of environmental impacts at the level of county plans. This is directly linked to the Environmental Protection Act that you discussed yesterday and you can see that it is one whole that we need, of course, but it is asking us and the European Union. What we have to say is that so far our spatial planning has been quite high and that we and otherwise also the strategy of spatial planning, spatial development and, in those programmes, but also in the spatial plans of the county have already had one part of environmental protection and the protection of demographic structures for all that is necessary, necessary for the normal development of a particular part of Croatia. But of course, this now clearly and explicitly requires certain suggestions. The second change in spatial planning provides for the exclusion and non-binding of the development of general urban plans for individual cities. We believe that the general plans that have been made so far are mainly covered by the same area as the spatial plans and that they were actually repeated twice making the same plans. And that is why we suggest that urban plans of the arrangements that are more detailed and more important and where it can be clearly determined whether it is citizens who participate in the public debate, be it what they want or not, are in those parts of the city that are not built in the old parts of the city or in the old parts of the city where a certain reconstruction is needed. Likewise, when we were now reviewing all spatial plans especially on the coast, we found that the units of local self-government predicted themselves to produce a large number of detailed plans and urban planning arrangements that will never be made. And thus further construction of anything in certain areas has been disabled. That's why we're predicting and we said when urban planning is mandatory, what I've just said in unbuilt construction areas and in cities where a certain reconstruction is needed. Is this about the old part or the new part, the newer part of the city? And for detailed plans, we propose to prescribe that they are mandatory only where the commission is to be carried out. So units of local self-government can continue in their spatial plans of municipalities or cities to predict certain urban planning arrangements or detailed plans, but will no longer be mandatory except in these cases in which we propose it. So the aim of this law is to embrace the role of spatial arrangement in the function of protecting space by connecting with all the spatially relevant regulations, but also making it easier for people to start building. The second part of our law that speaks of construction determines significantly different, different permits and building approvals than it has ever been before. We believe and suggest that for buildings up to 400 square meters, these are more or less family houses and agricultural facilities up to 600 squares no longer issue a local and construction permit, which means that all consents should not be collected in a double procedure, the consent of the neighbours but only one act should be issued. The act will, we suggest, be called a solution to the building conditions on which a man can begin construction. When it starts construction it needs in the simplest possible way and in the cheapest possible way to find out if anything can be built or not? That's why we've prescribed that a mandatory idea project that still costs less than the main project and that all the other things that are necessary to know what object, where in space, what does it mean in relation to municipal infrastructure? What does it mean to the neighbors? And it will also be necessary to submit the ownership list or prove that the parcel is owned by it. As for the construction of such buildings on the site itself, there must be a major project but now there is much greater responsibility for all designers, auditors and contractors, which has not been the case so far because it exists throughout Europe. Therefore, not all people can be aware of the responsibility of the people in the offices of the state administration but those who design certain things must be in accordance with the law. Other types of objects are facilities, multi-state, business facilities, hotels and the like, which according to us should result in a location permit. Because the location permit should be the basic permit for the state of the facility and for building an object at a specific location and in a certain space because we have seen and so far have seen and examined all the permits or part of the permits that have come to our control that actually many times the local permits have been issued in the way they should not have been issued. We therefore believe that this should be a basic document based on the time of obtaining a local authorisation. You don't need to get a building permit anymore. So we don't need to get all consent one more time. It is not necessary to get the neighbours' consent once more but to get confirmation of the main project. This confirmation of the main project will speak exclusively about whether the main project is made in accordance with the local permit and whether the auditors who have to carry out the revision of a particular documentation such as the stability of the facility, the physics of the building, means noise, heat protection and the like are whether the work has been done and whether the project meets all the legal regulations. And there's a third kind of object. These are complex objects, objects for which the Ministry, and so far has issued local and construction permits, will also work in the future. It is also about buildings that are particularly important for the environment such as refineries, individual factories, highways and the like in which, together with building conditions, environmental protection conditions will be established. Which means that both an idea project and an idea-technical and technological project will have to be developed that will then say what it means in the manufacturing process itself. Uh, they'll also get building permits. After that, they will also receive useful permits. A useful permit consisting of two parts. One part is a useful permit for an object that will be a permanent and useful permit for a technological process that will be controlled every 5 years. This is in line with European directives, and we must do so and taught by today's experience of ageing certain plants, factories and so on, we think it is good to check that people stick to what they do every five years, whether they stick to what is law and regulation. And the third part of this law is about urban cohesion, that is, land preparation. We have so far had, we haven't had the mandatory construction of urban cohesion and it has happened that at some locations some can build, and some don't because some have more favourable parcels, others don't, and we think that we should give everyone equal opportunities, that a detailed plan of arrangement should be made, and on the basis of that detailed plan, to carry out this cohesion process, which means editing the plots. It means that, normally, people should all get the same size of parcels they had but a different position as a detailed urban plan says, and those who have too little parcels will receive a market fee. Here we are introducing and proposing another institute, which is that the local self-government unit has the right to buy first in locations that are of interest to develop the entire municipality, which means building schools, kindergartens, infirmarys, anything that is necessary to ensure that life can normally take place in certain areas. And there's one newspaper, which is that we suggest that those people who have 80% of the plot but who lack 20%, up to 20% that the local self-government unit should sell it to them and that they should not go to a competition based on ownership laws and other real rights, because that 20% means nothing to anyone but certain things and build. So that commission will be conducted by local self-government units. We think that this is a solution that will introduce order in certain areas of the cities and municipalities and will not have a mess that happened when certain local permits were issued on the basis of general urban plans, so some of them could get it because the plot happened to be a little better laid than others. And one more thing in this law is that public administration offices are no longer issuing solutions, neither local nor building permits. That construction still has the ministry as it has so far. But location and solutions under the terms of the arrangement, about the conditions of construction and that it is transferred to cities over 35,000 inhabitants, means large cities and to the county. They would be obliged to make in their units administrative departments that would deal with this business. This has long been asked by all the cities of the ministry to suggest such a thing because they consider it particularly inappropriate that they do not know what is going on in their area and what construction permits have been issued for. We think that they are responsible enough that decentralisation should not be implemented, and in particular we think that everyone has bigger salaries than they have in the Offices of State Administration that they will also be able to reach people who are professional and who can do the job. We suggest that all 550 people working on these jobs are taken over to the county and large cities and that they continue with this job they've been doing so far. As for financial assets and insurance for these people, so as not to overburden the units of local self-government, we predict that the state continues to provide for those 550 employees as they had today, with units of local self-government because, as I said, they already have higher salaries than in the Offices of State Administration, that they settle the difference of these funds. We think that, in this way, it will be possible to increase the number of people who are definitely not enough today, but also to allow cities to run their urban policies in one better way than they could have done so far. There, these are major changes in the law. Of course we have received comments from the Association of Cities that we think are fine, that we will certainly be with them after they came two days ago that we will sit down with them and clarify certain things very specifically about this funding of these services that they are most talking about. And until the second reading, I'm sure one big part of their remarks and accept. The same applies to the Chamber of Architects, builders and geodesy. Already now, those who have come forward before, as we say, geodetics and builders have already included some of their remarks in the law itself, and those who have just now submitted certain remarks and with them we will sit down and discuss and also we are really prepared whoever has any of you or any smart solution, something that would improve the text of this law, of course, that we are prepared to accept all this and accept it. All committees unanimously gave passage to this law in the first reading. I also ask you to accept this law, this bill in the first reading and, of course, after you make your remarks, and we will then, until the second reading, put into law everything we can accept and which is not contrary to the concept of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88783	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, he does. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, Mr. Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88784	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Space Planning discussed the proposal for a law on spatial planning and construction as a parent working body under Article 83. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee in the debate, in its discussion on the Committee, expressed its view that the proposed law fully regulates the system of spatial planning and construction and is well-established. It pointed out that, in relation to the applicable legislation, it proposes a reduction of administration and simplifies the procedure in the area of spatial planning, as well as the issue of permits and acts on the basis of which access to construction can be made. A significant paper assesses the introduction of provisions on the management and arrangement of building land, as well as urban cohesion. It has been pointed out that it is expected that by the end of this year all units of local self-government will develop spatial plans, which is a good basis to approach the implementation of the proposed changes in the area of spatial planning. The opinion is expressed that it is necessary to support the applicant's intensification to speed up the procedure by adopting and implementing the law and allow the investor to receive feedback in as short a time as possible with as little cost as possible. It is precisely the long-term nature of the procedure that often stands out to the investor. Positively assessed transfer of business, licensing and other acts related to the implementation of spatial planning and construction documents to units or regional self-government. The debate expressed concern that the new methodology in spatial planning, under the conditions of lack of experts, spatial plan makers and existing administrative capacity, will not first result in the desired acceleration of procedures and procedures. It is also pointed out that this is how a system of spatial planning and construction is set to require strong inspection supervision, and due to the current insufficient number of inspectors, the need for staff strengthening the inspection service in this ministry has been pointed out. A number of objections, proposals and opinions on the draft law have also been presented on the Committee, and NGOs will be referred to the applicant in writing. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning and Construction is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88785	Thank you very much. Does he want any other committees that they've discussed? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Marko Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88786	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let me now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, present our views on the Proposal for this Law. Croatia has a long tradition of spatial planning and I think we can all be proud of it with full right. Access to planning, guidelines and objectives has been thoroughly changed by changing the political system in 1999 and by the formation of our country. The Law on Spatial Planning was passed in 1994 and has been amended and completed several times. The law regulates the fundamental principles of the Croatian legal system in the area of spatial planning. In the application of the Law, certain solutions are lacking in the structure of the Law, and some solutions need to be amended to facilitate the implementation of the Law. The construction of buildings has been governed by the Construction Act, which has been in force since 1 January 2004. The November 2004 Law regulates the area of construction in a way that simplifies the process of issuing a building permit, introduces a differentiated procedure for illegally built buildings, and individual provisions improves inspection supervision. However, the system of spatial planning and construction has not acted as a common basis for the protection of space and construction of the Republic of Croatia, nor have all the requirements of European principles of good construction been incorporated in the law. In order to remove the observed difficulties in implementing those laws and to bring our legislation and areas of spatial planning and construction in line with EU legislation, the Government has proposed a new Law on spatial planning and construction. For the first time, this law combines spatial planning, construction, management and planning of construction land and urban co-operation. This is a very important law that simplifies the process of spatial planning, building and obtaining permits in a transparent and faster way. In addition, the administrative area of spatial planning and construction into a single system is linked exclusively to certain, including certain processes in the field of environmental protection. So I would point only to the most important solutions in this law. For the purpose of developing essential requirements for construction, i.e. regulation of other conditions that must be met and in connection with design, construction and use, a Committee on Construction is established as an advisory body which gives the Minister of Recommendations and Opinions concerning construction. The need to set up a Real Estate Management Fund shall be established so that active land policy can be maintained in the country and in the units of local self-government. Unfortunately, we haven't had this Fund in the past 17 years, and I believe that we will all agree that this is a quality solution that needs to be fully changed in our country and that it really needs to change this policy and bring to an active position that the state and units of local self-government can come and dispose of the land in one correct way in the interests of both the state and the units of local self-government. The Croatian Institute for Spatial Development is established for the purpose of drawing up spatial development documents for the needs of the country. The Office for Spatial Planning for Their Needs can also establish large cities. This is a newspaper, which, at the request of our large cities, the applicant and, of course, the ministry accepted, because nowhere is such a lack of professional personnel in our country as the lack of expert personnel in the area of spatial planning. And in this way we will be given the opportunity for our cities to, of course, have been just county institutions for spatial planning, and now cities will also have the opportunity to establish such an institution and, within their services, do certain spatial-planning documentation. The obligation of a local self-government unit to manufacture... For certain cities and the programme of measures to improve the situation in space as it has been shown in practice that, between the spatial plan of a specific unit of local self-government and urban plan and the unit of local self-government, there is no need to bring another spatial document because it only burdens spatial issues and, of course, requires significant costs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It shall ensure public involvement in the settlement of space protection through the public debate process in the process of adopting spatial plans. In fact, this democratic principle has since the beginning of this country been embroiled in all our legislation that has in any way touched the problem of spatial planning. Citizens are allowed to make all their opinions and suggestions on spatial arrangements through public debate. The Minister has already pointed out here that the local and construction permits for building houses of up to 400 square square meters and agricultural facilities are lifted, but it is important to point out here and to point out that the whole process is simplified and united in one administrative procedure, which means that citizens in the exercise of their rights in the event of certain difficulties will not have to go through the procedure twice from the authority issuing the documentation to the Administrative Court, and thus surely by 50% the procedure is reduced. If citizens decide to build upon the outcome of a solution in conditions that are now being given instead of local and construction permits, they will need to obtain a major project, and for the quality that the designer corresponds to. So the procedure has really been reduced by almost 50%. For residential buildings and hotels, only local permits will be issued, and this Law requires a major responsibility to the profession, to the designer, to the auditor, to those responsible and professional people who must continue to follow the process of building objects, so the designer must confirm that all those conditions from spatial plans are to be introduced into this project for the construction of residential buildings or hotels or some others as this Act is designed, and the auditor must confirm that this project has been built on the basis of this Act and the specific regulations to be adopted in this Act, so that its stability and all those conditions of fire protection, housing hygiene and all other things. And, of course, for the most complex facilities large infrastructure large industrial plants remain local and building permits, and of course for these buildings are also connected to the Environmental Protection Act in this Act, because these facilities must be subject to environmental impact study. The obligation to sell land owned by a local self-government unit is introduced to citizens if they need that part to form an undeveloped building particle with that part per area not greater than 20% of the surface area of the building particle, which is certainly a major improvement and help for citizens to achieve their right of construction. As one instrument that has already been tried in practice, the law of the first purchase of construction land is introduced in specially established areas, therefore for the benefit of the state, but also for the benefit of local self-government units with market prices. According to the detailed plan, the construction land arrangement will also be able to be carried out through urban co-operation, i.e. by the process of uniting building land particles with the development of ownership relations. The comcommissioning process is being initiated by the local self-government unit, but as already pointed out here for this space, a detailed planning must be made. For all other spaces in cities and municipalities there is no need to do detailed plans of spatial arrangement, but this must be known for every square centimeter of land what and how it will be used and who can use it. I must point out that the Law re-enables a unique way of legalising illegally built objects and allowing for effective exercise of inspection supervision. As far as certain provisions of the law are concerned, I would point only to two articles because we have addressed all those nomotechnic questions and questions on the Committee on Space Editing that can possibly improve some kind of expression. This applies first of all to Article 134 governing the procedure of the first time. In our court, the owner of the property cannot be obliged to submit the offer for sale of the property via a public notary, but the owner may be obliged to verify the offer with the public notary. In that regard, the content of this article should only be amended in our court. In Article 173(3) and (4) which regulate the entry of ownership in the land register and the cadastrian operation in our court cannot be placed... the registration of property to persons who cannot pay compensation in money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They need to be charged with a burden on a particle or a court route, and in that sense we think that we need to change. And finally, I point out that this bill fully regulates the system of spatial arrangement and that the concept is well set up. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support its reference to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88787	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88788	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary with a colleague, dear colleagues and colleagues! Here, I could say that this law is a revolution in construction in Croatia. We waited a long time, we got something. Of course, there are many shortcomings, but let us commend at least the good intention of ultimately wanting to regulate the whole problem and matter of construction, especially with regard to land planning. It is bad what I would like to say, why I have more complaints or why I have more objections to the articles of the law than there is an article in the law, it is bad that in the process of making that law, a large number of groups, interested groups were not in negotiations. I won't say you didn't talk to them, but he wasn't in negotiations. I speak here from the Association of Architects, from the Association of Architects, from cities, etc. You will answer that you have spoken to them, and they have not responded. However, this dialogue has not been reached. That's a drawback. The proposal is extremely large. It has 353 articles, and they arrange an area of spatial planning, which works for construction land, and for the first time we are touching urban cohesion. This proposal is significantly more relevant and more comprehensive than the applicable Law on Spatial Planning and Construction Act, and fills in a number of legal gaps. But speeding up the process most of these days through the media depends primarily on the work of services and spatial documentation. Time limits for solving cases are not respected and will not be respected in this way either. There are penalties, namely, for all the participants in the construction except for the state or service involved, county or city that issue the necessary permits whatever they are called. So, no offense, so-called. Acceleration of the process for obtaining documents for the construction of a family home with 400 meters of a square grossly developed area, is not, I would not say, any more that the populist nature of the atmosphere of this pre-election time, but that will de facto speed up the construction. What comes very seriously here is what will be the quality of building these objects? Because these objects are planned with three apartments. And we know well that since the main project that we need to have on the site and the powers we give to the designers and supervisors will have no one to control, so what we had in the early '90s will happen very easily. years, when they're so-called. Tutunovics built houses and apartments that were found on the market and were substandard qualities, e.g. No vertical sercations. So I'm just warning you that this so-called. Acceleration will not give such an effect, and the quality of construction will be reduced because we do not have a set structure that will be able to control it. Otherwise, the bill contains a rich term. And I welcome this very term, which defines the concepts of spatial planning and construction, which significantly facilitates the application of certain concepts... meaning so far was unclear or controversial. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This balances the meaning of the concepts for all of Croatia, i.e. it does not leave the County and City Assemblys or municipal and city councils to define in the documents of the spatial arrangement they bring in the same terms in different ways. However, the definitions of certain concepts such as the concept of spatial order or mandatory spatial indicators referred to in Article 47 or the expert designer referred to in Articles 61, 79, 80, 89, 90, 91 and 101 are not defined anywhere. Or, as the concept of basic spatial development of the county, the article mentions Article 71. It should also note the meaning of logical or content in defining some other concepts in clean construction, the question of the concept of ground floor, ground floor, basement, replacement building and the ambiguity of the definition of reconstruction. The question arises and these are of course questions from the field, why is the basement limited to a depth of 6 meters? Why the cascade type of construction came out of the nomenclature, etc.? But these are those remarks I'm going to make to you in writing, so I don't bother the listeners here. The principles of protection of space and public interest are significantly highlighted. Cities and county offices for spatial planning are envisaged to be established as an institution that must develop and run a strong information system for spatial planning, and data that are public. From spatial planning documents at the regional (regional) level, it shall be adopted under the 1st spatial plan and under the 2nd spatial plan of the area of specific characteristics. At the local level, a urban plan and a detailed plan of arrangements are adopted. Therefore, the adoption of GUP is no longer foreseen. It is also determined that, according to the purpose of the spatial plan, the strategic document of spatial planning, while the urban plan and detailed plan of implementation are spatial planning documents. The urban planning of the arrangement is mandatory for construction areas outside the settlement, for parts planned for the restoration of the construction area and for isolated construction areas. The detailed planning of the arrangements shall be made mandatory for parts of the settlements on which it is determined to implement... It's a piece of work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the first time in law when there is a obligation to adopt a spatial order implementing document. The current law only stipulates that obligations to make DPUs with scope limits are determined by a spatial plan of the wider area. Therefore, for significant parts of the city will not be possible, for example, the City of Zagreb will not be able to issue a location permit unless a spatial planning implementing document has been adopted. This plays a major role in interpreting the concept of rebuilding the construction area of the settlement. The procedure for the production and adoption of spatial planning documents is detailed and the institute for decision-making of spatial planning documents is introduced. It is pointed out that the public debate in the process of adopting a spatial plan must be repeated for a reason if the change in the proposal affects ownership relations. In fact, it remains unclear what these changes must be because, in a broader sense, every change actually affects ownership relations. Sublaws prescribed by this proposal of the law are neither adopted nor proposed in the package at the same time as the adoption of this law and are not known in the draft, and a full assessment of the legal solutions is not possible, as full and complete implementation of the proposed law will not be possible until their adoption. It is proposed that the start of application of the law should be linked to the adoption of the following rules. The implementation of such a law at the regional and local level will require significant resources which are also not elaborated. Therefore, it would be necessary for law enforcement to be seen and elaborated. It would therefore be necessary for law enforcement to be seen and elaborated in this context and not only in the context of a reflection on the state budget, which has also not been done comprehensively. The acquisition of officials and offices of the issue of local and construction permits and other acts requires certain funds but not only the salaries of officials but also the provision of spatial, material, technical and other conditions. The state lowers its salary funds from its budget for 11 and 12 months 2007 but only at the height it provided while the difference falls on the county burden as well as the means to ensure spatial, material and other conditions. It is therefore necessary to assess the needs and ensure State participation and in part of the material and spatial working conditions. The introduction of a spatial planning information system is necessary and necessary but has a low price. The bill does not show whether and how the state participates in the introduction of the information system at the county level. It is therefore necessary to develop the basics of the system and ensure co-financing from state resources in the part relating to state support and interests at the county level, compatibility and education. By new law, what is most important in that part, the first part relating to spatial planning changes the structure and content of spatial planning documents. This basically means that when you change and supplement, you actually need to draw up a new plan. It is here to highlight the obligations of the Environment Protection Law, which requires the implementation of a strategic environmental impact assessment procedure for the county's spatial plan, which the minister also spoke of this morning, but also some other plans. It should not be stressed that this requires extensive work, both professionally and technically, and also procedurally, the implementation of the process of discussion, reconciliation and approval, and with this regard to large costs and a significant period of time, the planning process which is today at the conclusion but still at the level of units of local self-government is not finished, it is started, you will not believe, in 1994. In the event that such a law is passed, it is not clear how the plans or amendments thereof will appear during the transitional period when the new law prescribes the structure and content of the plans in a different way than the old rule which remains in force until the new one is adopted and the deadline for the new one is two years. The provisions of the draft laws which regulate the structure and content of the plans, design, adoption, procedure, amendments and additions and allowable possibilities in the transitional period should be much more precise and clarified. The report considers that the structure and content of the plans should not be changed and allow changes and additions to the plans so far, with a clear and unequivocally precise understanding of the exceptions and new obligations as well as the obligations arising from the Environmental Protection Law proposal, in particular with regard to the strategic environmental impact assessment. The draft law also prescribes the abolition of GUP as a category of plan and existing GUPs can be valid for another ten years. The current obligation to make GUP cities cost significant money and they designed their vision and concept of development through the plan document, which will certainly not be realised within ten years. Now it will be necessary to draw up new planning documents instead of using the documentation they have already produced with appropriate occasional updates. Therefore, it is proposed that the GUP be retained as a planned document. Offices for spatial planning under the new law of the county are established as public institutions. The conditions for carrying out the activities will be prescribed by a minister who will only be adopted in two years and the counties must establish institutions within six months. Typical of our legislation. And that if there's not going to be new under the existing rulebook, which is not logical, it would be better to establish them after the new rule has been passed. This probably assumes the transition of human and material and technical resources from the current county institutions to a public institution although the legislator does not say anything about existing employees, jobs and material-technical resources except that existing institutions stop working within six months of the date of entry into force. This will require additional staffing of new institutions under the existing Regulation because part of the existing institutions is not fully teamed up and additional needs certainly stem from the obligation to introduce the information system prescribed by the new law. In the bill, nothing is said in case the counties do not establish an institution according to this law. What happens to the county if they don't? The proposed organisational changes need to be seen in interaction with changes in the content and structure of spatial order documents and other obligations relating to the information system and procedures related to the implementation of the strategic environmental impact assessment and this will require maximum involvement of the institute. It is therefore necessary to assess the optimal organisational form in view of the available capacities of the counties of financial, human, spatial, material and necessary expected effects. If changes are made to the proposed law, it would be logical for them to follow the new regulation. The question of whether the proposed changes will improve any effectiveness of the functioning of the zoning system at the county level. Given that time is easy to point out, I will not concentrate on the remarks that go according to certain articles and the part relating to the second segment of this law, so the section relating to construction will be specifically dealt with in the context of the personal debate. Otherwise, the Croatian People's Party and our club will support the proposal of this law in their first reading, with a series of remarks, which we hope will be corrected by the second reading in a small-scale democratic debate with stakeholders.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88789	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. The first is Mr. Marco Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88790	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs. Cichin-Shain presented a series of inaccuracies in her presentation and allowed me to correct only one. The bill was not at a public debate in the Croatian Chamber of Engineers in cities, counties and other institutions. Well, the government is precisely because the general public has the opportunity to state its position on this, including professional and political institutions, this law has put the law into practice in two readings. In addition, she published it on websites, the ministry published it on websites, our presses wrote about it. So all of them in the ministry and through the public ballots were able to declare themselves, and they will also be made known until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88791	Thank you. Second correction, Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88792	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a number of things I wouldn't agree with. There's a lot of wrong allegations. One of the wrong allegations is that construction of buildings without a building permit of up to 400 square meters, up to 400 square meters, for which no building permit will be required more a populist act than it will speed up construction. Which is absolutely not true. It would be populist for cities and municipalities to reduce the price of cubic meters. Then the people would be thrilled. And this will certainly speed up construction, simplify construction, because we know exactly how much paper it took to build. Secondly, it is an incorrect assumption that there will be no one to control. With rigorous punishments we have seen that can be done very, very much. And to repair what was made in 2001 when allowed, the permitted connections to the infrastructure for illegally built buildings will take a long time to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88793	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88794	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Minister. The HSP club will support the proposal for a law on spatial planning and construction in first reading, but for our final decision on the final bill itself when it comes to the agenda, there will be two key questions for us. First, the key and important question is whether we are finally going to end various construction and other lobbys, not to mention the mafia that systematically destroys the space in Croatia and which according to which everything is systematically organized and adapted from the spatial plans of cities and municipalities, urban plans and detailed plans. The best example of this is both the city of Zagreb and the territory of the Croatian Adriatic, where it is visible what is the situation in the area, what are the problems and most of all when this part is mentioned about the combination and the authority to adapt everything precisely to the team of construction, trade and other lobbys for which there are no obstacles, which easily come to their goal of doing what they want. We had an example of Flower Square, we had, in the city of Zagreb. We had an example of the old thorn. There is now an example of Vrbika, now new or similar examples appear when it comes to the city of Zagreb where everything is visible and that every urban plan in the city of Zagreb for a particular area is precisely in the function of construction and other lobbys because they are investors and for their needs everything is adapted. And for that reason, it is important to make these provisions on membership, to give out even more assurances that such or similar situations would not continue to take place. Because it happens that every urban plan predicts the construction of a new shopping center, new business buildings and even residential parts. And infrastructure like that can't handle it, it can't handle it. And then that part of the rest of the arrangement falls on taxpayers who need to be the ones who are going to do everything that's been done in the space, which is the devastation that's been made. What was made right in favour of construction lobbys is then paid by taxpayers for infrastructure and they bear the greatest burden of all. Another important question is when are we finally going to get the real situation into legal frameworks? When we're really going to get the situation into legal frameworks, we know what our real situation is in the field. Today we have municipalities and cities that have not yet come up with their own spatial plans. According to spatial plans, what the council said is somewhere planned to build residential buildings means housing and all for some 16 million inhabitants. There is a visible situation that is happening daily, almost daily in the Croatian Adriatic area to spread the sea in order to reach that part so that it can be built and everything else. So the most important question is that once we in Croatia get that answer when will the real situation be brought into the legal frameworks? Because then it can only be said that all of this is proposed and what is predicted to be a guarantee and protection on one side of space protection, environmental protection and everything else. And on the other hand, all these suggestions that go in terms of simplification for families, building in the sense that you won't need a building permit anymore. Then it'll all make sense, and then it'll all be so that we can finally say, "Here we finally draw the line." We've come into a state that we've brought the real state into legal frameworks and after this there are no more different situations that are already present on the ground. And if we solve those questions, then we can say that we have made an important move. Although it must really be admitted that the ministry has been Mrs Dropulic since she led the major shifts in this area. Let's just take this state of work inspection service as it was before. Namely, the inspection did not, nor did many inspectors, nor did they actually work by, in a legal way, and therefore perhaps these provisions on the inspection law should also go to those temporary measures on the spot and the issuing of labour bans and all other sealing so that every removal of the seal and everything else is essentially further construction, a criminal offence. That means one form of prevention. We must unfortunately have such provisions to prevent various situations. So if we can bring the real state into law. If we allow these spatial plans of cities and municipalities not only to be in the function of construction and other lobbies, and that's normal above all and the spatial plan of the state which as such also the work of the Ministry in that part that does not allow what is being tried because as far as we in the HSP Club know about all these municipalities and cities that did not bring in the time of the spatial plans is, they have prepared it but you... they returned because they did not comply with the spatial plan or with the legal decisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are the most important things for us. Those answers are the most important. And, and the other comments of the individual we have at the club that you yourself have made, we will deliver the same to you. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88795	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Marco Chirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88796	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representative Pero Kovacevic presented the following, a difficult qualification in his debate. Every spatial plan in cities is a function of allowing construction lobbys to build, and of course it is not true. All spatial plans shall be adopted in a public exposure procedure in which all citizens have the opportunity to present their opinions and proposals, and units of local self-government shall adopt these plans. For mishandling and allowing construction lobbys somewhere if there is a result will be charged in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88797	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88798	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, This is indeed a brave step, perhaps too bold, but it is precisely because of this boldness that the law should be supported. The law on spatial planning, or construction, was passed in '94. A year. It was replaced four times in '98, 2000, 2002, 2004. All these changes can be said to this day, or until this law, they're just cosmetics, and today it's something new. Whether or not to make it will show the time. This is a revolution that I agree with just so the revolution doesn't end up eating its children. So far, laws have fallen into legal decisions. I'd say they fell first of all on management and sublegals. So at implementation, often corrupt individuals and their desire not to work anymore, but to do work for which they have gained confidence. So much for these county offices under the authority of the competent ministers. How to start Croatia? Someone's wrong if they think there's a magic solution. It just doesn't exist. I come from an economic safe with the City of Zagreb we can tell the most prospective areas of the Republic of Croatia in which it may be harder to reach workers sometimes than work. But you know what can really run Croatia in moments when the relevant investments will not be? First of all, effective state and local government will charge taxes immediately, whether they will pay you back your overpaid tax immediately, whether it will reduce your troubles when you want to build, and that is exactly what this law says, whether I know you will be protected by the police, that within 60 days someone will issue you a pension solution, etc. etc. It means everyone in the country does their job. That's how this law kind of feels about him. So, cut deadlines, shorten the investment procedure. I don't think I'm here to be clear on representative capital. I mean, first of all, cutting those deadlines and bothering a small man like the Croatian budget is filled with food poverty through VAT, not the 3.4% you want, and the biggest investors in this country at times when I'm talking about this construction are not big investments, but just ordinary little people. In times when I can no longer mean to get to the so-called so-called. Social housing, when they simply have to think for themselves how to build a house or buy an apartment within 10, 20, 30 years. Because of these people, because of these little people, these ordinary people need to simplify the procedure, but we clearly need to take the risk and therefore need to strengthen inspection. Why does it matter? One example from yesterday's debate. By 1960 it was built between 120 km and 150 km of Croatian coast. Today, it's 2,000 miles away if we're looking at everything around the island, etc. how many shores we have built 837 km of shore. Let's just look at Zagreb, not to mention the coast. In 35 years, the construction extended to an additional 700km of shore. It wasn't the foreigners who did it. We did it ourselves. In 17 years, for example, 5 new hotels have not been built, but perhaps two, three new camps and 200 or 300 km of coast has been affected if the environmental report in the Republic of Croatia is to be trusted. In this law you can say that everything is important. There's a dilemma. So the expansion of construction, construction because construction today is third, perhaps even second in the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. In the County of Istria it is fourth place and, or simplifying the procedure to make it even easier to build. Keeping in mind how I said before the trouble that a small, personal builder is going through, these torments don't go great because they can, if necessary, bribe someone. I'm absolutely up for this law. The key norms are actually, is this chapter III. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Perhaps the 209th construction of a building whose gross surface is no more than 400 metres and a building to carry out exclusively agricultural activities whose gross surface is no more than 600 metres can be accessed on the basis of a valid solution to the conditions of construction. Absolutely it's okay. Article 5, however, of simple buildings whose construction can be accessed without an act approving the building is determined by the Minister by his rules. I think that it should perhaps be specified by this law, that it should not be left to discretionary will, to the people of the ministry. I personally like this Article 210, too, that the investor, on his own responsibility, continues building on the basis of a building permit, so these are large buildings in moments until it is not a powerful one and while there is a administrative dispute, because it is enough that because of some administrative dispute, the investor is waiting to lose millions and millions of kunas, and sometimes giving up investment, maybe all because of a drop of sometimes a journalist, a neighbor or perhaps an evil intention of his competition. It is simply enough that those who create something are always considered the enemy of this country but I say it primarily to make it easier for small people. For example, a craftsman who wants to lift a 500 square-square radio, an auto mechanic who wants to do a service for 600 squares, etc. If we want good to this community, if we want to correct today's social inequality, we're going to have to encourage these very small craftsmen, these little entrepreneurs, because they're the only ones who can handle our tycoons that all they've acquired are because of their brotherly embrace with the state. 'Cause it's '91, '92. At the right time, under quotes, "we were in the right place." What I am a bit afraid of is Article 212 of the competent administrative authority of the county or the large city issuing a solution to the building conditions and a confirmation of the main project for buildings in its area. So the decision on building conditions will no longer be issued by the State Office under the hat of the minister, but by administrative departments under the hat of the county, mayor or large city, for example. Pula, Sibenik, Split, etc. Under the minister's hat. The truth is, all the cities have been looking for it. But can this slow down the speed it wants to impose this law? Will the county find people? You say cities will take over the existing administrative structure, and that's exactly what needs to be feared. How much the county's gonna cost now. Whether or not the state will lower a part of the funds for these purposes when it lowers its mandate. In one word, are our cities, the county for such a single step at this moment ready. For example. all in this country consider, or in a large part of the region, the privilege of working in the state administration, secure wages, pensions, responsibility is as it is, minor risks. Or, for example, in a whole series of Offices of Construction from Poreč, all these people leave in Istria after a professional examination either in private or in local self-government, primarily due to a humiliating salary. So this kind of office organization in some environments is completely worn out. This is a real change, it needs to be supported, but we need to see what will bring time. It is a good Article 220 to give the investor a deadline of, what, 30 days to meet the conditions, not to block his investment due to the absence of a deadline. I repeat, it's usually when we look at a break on a small investor, not a big one. They can easily reach the mayor of a city, to the mayor, to the deputy, to the minister or minister, to the prime minister or the president of the state, but the kid stays in the hallway. And that's why the law needs to be recognized once exactly that position of a small man, but I think it's, that the intensity here is positive. Article 273 of the demolition now called removal, it doesn't matter, it building that 400 squares without a license to remove, and that's good. Perhaps these ruins around the cities will be removed. It's usually done to make room for new construction. And the state doesn't have to get involved in everything and suspect that if someone works for themselves, they're working against the state. Article 300 speaks of demolition, etc. What's also important, and perhaps there's the biggest objection to this bill. Almost every second, each third article ends with a guideline for example. Some sublaw will be passed, the minister of construction will prescribe this, the finance minister will prescribe that, the minister I don't know about internal affairs will prescribe something third. And that's certainly not good. The spirit of the law is good, positive, we welcome it. But what's left to a whole series of conduct is a discretionary assessment of a minister, that's not good. In some ways, Parliament makes the law untransparent, the law can make it impregnable, it can find certain standards in the coalition, and what is certain is strengthening the executive power at the expense of the representative. I claim that out of 353 articles, I dare say a hundred articles suggest that some of the ministers will regulate something so that this law can be implemented at all. So the basic criticism of the positive intention is this submission that can easily turn into a hypernormation that no one in this country will be able to follow again. For the end, the spatial plans we've heard we've heard, the detailed ones we haven't yet. They should be the key to this law. It's an interesting regulation, no. But that's where we enter certain rights of ownership, but it doesn't go differently in some environments, but I don't want to say it now because I'm afraid of the power of power when it comes to private property. And how serious that question is, how brave a step it is says that as many as 40 articles of this Law have dedicated themselves to that particular matter. I suppose the implementation of this law is very expensive. It will burden the budgets of the county, the cities and therefore, parallel to this Law, should go in the direction of decentralisation not only of power, and this is the law on decentralisation and power, but also of money. Clearly, the process of getting to the permits needs to be simplified, it needs to be cheaped, it needs to be speeded up because we will eventually all benefit from it. It will benefit the state, either through taxes, which will carry out some other obligations. I'm reading today that Mr. Finance boasts 2 and a half billion kunas more resources in the state budget than was planned for this period of the year, that's good. Although it should be returned to the economy and to the people who created this money, perhaps with a VAT reduction. This law will benefit the capital. But most of all, those who are generally the most common investors would have to benefit, and these are the very small, tiny builders who should thus reach the roof over their heads. What is also a small dilemma under which the law will be completed by some existing items that are under way. That question should be answered in those transitional provisions. It's not there. It is assumed to be understandable by the one who is more favourable for that investor or for the applicant. But this should be made more clear that there are no dilemmas about the interpretation of these final and transitional provisions. The law is in first reading. We expect that he will appear relatively soon in the final version. Maybe seven months before the break. Because no one in this country has the right to wait. And finally, waiting largely costs both citizens and institutions and investors and the state and the whole. That's it. And I think that this legislator's intrinsicity must be better said, with this one remark, that there is too much room for a provision to appear that some sublegal minister will specify an area by means of a sublegal act.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88799	Thank you very much. We have three corrections. The first is Mr. Representative Marko Shirac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88800	Mr. Vice-President, Commissioner Cain, in a debate on the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, presented the next incorrect fact that the country's budget is full of poverty by paying VAT. Now, Mr. Cain, that's not true. The budget of this country is filled by all citizens of VAT bonds and other taxpayers. It's not good for this assembly to run an election campaign that you Mr. Caine are doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88801	Correction, Mr. Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88802	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, and quote, "This Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning and Construction will help ordinary little people." I think it's an ugly phenomenon in the Croatian Parliament that we share people in small ordinary and large unusual. I'm not thinking about myself, I'm thinking about MPs or ministers or something, because we have to stop anymore. The other day, we shared women in town ladies or sarret workers in the country, and now we're dividing people into ordinary small, unusually large ones. I consider myself always the same when I was Franjo Arabović basketball player or Franjo Arabović when I am a student in my village at school and now that I am a parliamentary representative and do not see the difference between me, Mr. Lesar, you except perhaps in centimeters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88803	Correction, Mr. Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88804	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Cain said that this 2 and a half billion surplus in the revenues of the state budget should be returned to the economy, etc. Well, it's incorrect. These funds were not taken away by the team only because of certain services of the ministry, these funds were collected from those who had to pay for it and who had to pay for it. Of course it will be deployed in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88805	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88806	Dear Mr. Vice President, honorary State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few words about the Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. The HSS Club will support the Bill's proposal in the first reading because we believe it is necessary that one of these laws should be adopted after several amendments and the addition of the former laws, and what the Minister pointed out is that the goal is to get the possibility of building as soon as possible when we finally pass this law, so that in that part we think it is necessary to adopt and improve this problem which has been quite problematic in the past. What I would say in the introduction is that the goal should not be just as soon as possible to get the possibility of building, but should be to get the ability to build and as cheap as possible. Unfortunately, we must remind ourselves that in recent years we have passed some laws on the basis of which regulations have been adopted where the documents necessary for... It means a location and construction permit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, first of all, after the Water Law was passed, the regulations that practically costed up, the total cost of obtaining a construction permit for 50%. Since the fee for water is extremely large and according to my calculations, because I've built something myself that cost is somewhere twice as expensive as it was before for ordinary construction, so I believe that it is also for larger buildings, perhaps even more. So it would be good for us to try to reduce this total cost of obtaining permission in the second reading to try to see that after some sublegal acts, the total cost of obtaining permission is tried, because what I now think is too much of a blow especially on people who are building their living facilities, houses, and also on economic facilities, but there is a whole series of opportunities that are used to release certain permits, especially when it comes to water compensation. So the overall goal will not be achieved by obtaining a solution to the construction before one procedure, before there were two, if no agreement is reached on the fact that this price is not higher than it was before. If these two goals were to be combined into one, then we would be able to say that we have achieved certain goals and therefore I appeal once again for another reading to try to see how much these total fees will be or that they may already be indicated, although then they will be regulated by specific sublegal acts to indicate how much such a permit will cost, relatively quickly, rather quickly than now, but in total they will be equally expensive. Also, the second part that's indicated here is that part of the business will decentralize, bring down cities and counties which, in any case, I think should be welcomed because I still think that the most and best way to deal with our local self-government is with our problems and that it's good to bring down a part of these jobs. However, the way it is foreseen here that only part of the money will be given out of the state budget, and that part will have to bear both the county and the cities again and it has been said that 550 people are now working on these jobs. Obviously, and that's been our intensity for years and so on and here in Parliament that we've been putting down some jobs... to local self-government, and we don't give them enough funding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here are my fellow mayors who were at a time when I was aware that we got a whole series of commitments from the state, and we didn't get the money, and that's where we need to find one measure. It's not enough right now to say just here we're going to give some money for it, and you make up for that difference from your assets, and those funds are very low, we know that in local self-government there's some 8.9% of the total or 10% of the total, which is very low. So, 550 people may seem a little bit divided by county, but believe me, it's relative to counties that have 50 or 70 employees very much, because each gets another part then. It is that they may be able to work more efficiently, that they will also need to equip them, and we know that civil servants are otherwise quite poorly equipped and that they do not all have cars. And those now working so we can get out in the field at all without telling about equipment that's often on different levels from county to county. So from this decentralisation, which is predicted through a lot of performance, the financial part should also be monitored, then we will achieve the right goal. I would refer to two chapters that are defined in this bill and are related to agriculture. I think it's good to make it possible to build certain economic facilities only with a solution of up to 600 square meters, which I think will help in one part of the building of agricultural buildings. But on the other hand, I'd like to add what I just said to you about housing. Also, there will be no reduction in certain givings these facilities will be expensive for that manufacturer of ours. Because if you figure out how much 600 squares, only this one item called the water fee will be too expensive for him, and today they're all loaded, they're just beginning, they have to give a lot of money at the beginning that we could go into construction at all, let alone build an object that should be profitable in today's conditions and that should have some kind of increase in funds being made through a certain part of the years with his work. That's pretty hard to expect. And the other part I'd like to look back on is tourism. In that part I would say about one part of tourism alone, it is nautical tourism which is probably one of the most recognizable branches of tourism in our country. The participation belongs to the title of nautical tourism in the total income of tourism involved with a small share, it is about 10%, which I don't really think it is, that it is one of the more significant drivers. When monitoring the situation in nautical tourism, it is often identified only with the notion of marinas, only with sailing and other activities along the sea and at sea, and mostly with tourists staying in the ports of nautical tourism. Unfortunately, the part is burdened by him being still seasonal and taking place most in the two months of the tourist season. And with better and more proper space management, it could expand and could be a long part of the year. So we believe that the proposed provision in Article 52 of this Article 4 concerning the restriction of the individual port of nautical tourism to 400 alliances, I do not think, is contrary to the needs of the development of this tourism. Because it's hard to say that now the restriction, why 400? Why didn't he say I don't know 600 or 300? So some arguments about the real ones, I don't think so. It is also necessary to develop an environmental protection study for that total capacity of each port. But I don't think he can work on the number of connections since most of the vessels change every year. 20 years ago they were smaller, now they're bigger and bigger, right? The number 400 will change very soon. We also had a case before, last year it seems to me, that we crashed a small port on the island of Pag, and it is now in the spatial plan of normal construction, which shows that we have to be careful about certain tasks that we've done inspections, means that, and that port to be done now, the study itself that needs to be paid and the environmental impact is often more expensive than just doing the work. Indeed, it is supportive of that claim that this law is not enough to make it quickly built, but all practical documents should be cheaper. And the other day, yes, we were talking about the Environmental Protection Act. There's one part of the authority we've put down on local self-government, we're all trying to decentralisation, but it seems to me that once again I'm going to say, we're not monitoring it enough with financial resources. And if some kind of administrative measure were to determine some length or width of the ship, then they would get some measure, which means 400 boats at some port, right? 400 strings. And some of these means, some of these ports can only receive certain sizes, not large ships, but just up to a certain length, right. And then the question is, if there's a bigger number of bigger ones, will those 400 large ones take far more space than some 400 small ones if they can't get into a port, but only small ones. It is also necessary to say that every microlocation on the Adriatic has its own speciality and this particularity is reflected in each location. And all environmental protection standards that are for a specific location should be clearly respected. As an example I can cite a marina... which has up to 400 berths and has taken up the entire area of one bay, until, say, some other marinas have taken up the entire bay but only one part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Practically, we would now have to create two or maybe three marinas with some coves to cover that 400 bonding requirement. So here, please try to find some real solution in that part of the reading without devastationing the area and respecting all environmental protection requirements. Furthermore, I would also like to refer to part of the chapter relating to urban cohesion under this bill. In the development of a spatial plan of the municipality, the city or urban organisation as a higher order plan that precedes the detailed plan of the arrangement, it is not possible to consider the reasons for the launch of the comcommissioning process. The main reason lies is that these plans do not determine new forms of surfaces of building and other particles, so it is not yet known whether the work will be necessary. As new forms of building surfaces and other particles are determined in the design of a detailed planning of the arrangement, it is possible to establish the necessary for the comcommissioning process. Also, since most of the municipality's spatial plans, cities have been passed over the past two years, long-term changes and additions should now be initiated to determine the commissation process. It is therefore proposed to set out in Article 138(1): "The implementation of the work of the commission and of the regional cooperation shall be determined by a detailed plan of the arrangement.". In addition, the comments on Article 144 which relate to the cost of cohesion. Since the work of the commission is forced for the participants and does not need their consent, it is not acceptable that... I'm carrying the cost of composing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The local self-government is expected to aliminate in one way the corresponding revenues from municipal contributions, and it is proposed that in paragraph 6 of that article, the costs of carrying out the comcommissioning process and the compensation of the cost of commercial transactions are borne by local self-government, which I think is the same enough if it remains on the citizens and the question is again in certain municipalities whether local self-government will be able to handle it because of its obligations. Furthermore, the comments to Article 155 of the publication of the conclusion of the implementation of the comcommissioning procedure in the context of the guidelines of the European Union should, in addition to the intended means of publication, be introduced and published through the website of local self-government, and shall be proposed in Article 155. add paragraph 5, which reads as follows: "The conclusion set out in paragraph... It is published on the web pages of local self-government as soon as the decision to co-operate on the same website is published but not shorter than ninety days." I think it'll improve the speed of knowledge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, since some time is running out, I have some other objections to articles 164, 165, which my colleagues will later present in an individual debate. So, in the end, I'd have figured it out. The HSS MPs' club will support the bill's proposal in the first reading. I believe there will be some changes to the second reading, and I would like to appeal once again to try to see that it is possible and as quickly as possible to get permission but also something cheaper than it is so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88807	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLS Club, Ms. Representative and Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88808	Thank you very much, fellow Vice President. My colleagues and fellow ministers. It is obvious that, according to the debate so far, we have a really good law before us that we can declare perhaps the beginning of real decentralisation but of course by taking responsibility for local self-government and the procedure is simplified, the work is facilitated, the procedure is shortened, the legislation is harmonised with the European Union, the process of adaptation and reconstruction of buildings entered in the register of cultural goods is simplified. We also listed some articles that clearly provide adequate assistance to investors in reducing procedures and simplifying it. However, I will draw attention perhaps to some improvements that are possible, which have been warned by colleagues and fellow mayors and mayors, and that is, above all, the termology of which the profession warns, of the fact that the concept in the bill is not uniform. We know that this is not a simple job, but we believe that it must really be uniform in order to achieve security in the application of the rules and avoid different interpretations and doubts for which we are definitely experts, this has been demonstrated so far. I would like to mention several very concrete proposals, for example, in the final draft of the law, for example, in the commercial commissions of the county and the big city, including the judges of the county and not the municipal courts whose land-booking problem is certainly closer and which should therefore not include who is going to carry out legal and professional affairs for the commission, but only determines who will carry out administrative and technical tasks which should therefore be regulated by law. In Article 25(2), an active land policy is being developed. It is noted that real estate management is not only considered to be supplied but also available to these properties, so we consider it unnecessary in paragraph 3 of the same proposal of the law to determine who conducts real estate management. It is particularly unacceptable to provide for a special law according to which real estate management will be carried out. The system of adoption of plans as well as the determination of their content is also not adequately arranged, the procedure of adoption could be more complicated if we do not settle it until the final version. For example, the provision of Article 58 of the proposal provides for the content of the document of spatial arrangement. So we propose a maximum simplification to exclude from the mandatory content of the documents public debate reports, records of the production and adoption of a spatial plan and a summary to the public, not with the intention of hiding something of course. The reasons for the exemption are that this record in the spatial plan may have over a hundred ordered documents and whose originals are also kept on the list when making the spatial plan and therefore do not need to be re-copyed and saved, we believe that this is really unnecessary. And we think when it comes to deadlines prescribed that they are too short to produce public hearing reports, they are relatively long to show the authorities. Now, in the case of the sale of land owned by local units that are articles 129 to 131 of the proposal, the termologically is a little imprecise and legally unfounded name of the new institute and will certainly represent a great additional financial burden for and such a burdened local unit. It is a very undefined obligation of the owner of the unbuilt land to hand over the land "can" be owned. The period for payment of compensation to private owners shall be within two years as referred to in Article 131(2) of the Law. In order for him to be feasible, it is still necessary to extend. However, the fact that there are no general urban plans according to this, I think it should be reconsidered because the general urban plan still sees the city as a whole, so the question is that we will then view the city as a whole, since segmentary planning of the big city in no way is likely to be a good solution. And we with some local experiences have more or less warned about the same articles. This is an observation relating therefore to the shortness and unsustainability of deadlines in which large cities, seats, counties and counties would be obliged to comply with the statutes, decisions and other general acts, in particular acts on the internal structure and internal order of their administrative bodies, with this law was prescribed on 15 October of this year, we are obliged to deploy the taken-over officers to jobs by 1 November of this year, so that we think that these deadlines may be too short. I think we should be more advisory, try to move them by the end of the year. I hope there will be fewer of these sublegal acts we call upon in the final version. However, there are places where it is good to deal with very sublegal acts. In particular, I would like to draw attention to articles 16 and 17 relating to persons with reduced mobility and deviations from essential building requirements because we believe that these solutions are good and that there may be a need to really go by regulation rather than by precise law. So to be clear, I'll read that article. "If an individual building is adapted or reconstructed, registered in the register of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia, or other buildings which provide the persons with reduced mobility with a smooth access, movement, stay and work, it may be deviated from the essential requirements for building according to the attached consent of the Ministry." Also in Article 17, paragraph 2, where housing and housing buildings with 10 and more apartments must be designed and built so that easy adjustment of buildings is possible in at least one apartment to every 10 apartments for access, movement, stay and work for persons with reduced mobility. This is good indeed to be in the law and that the procedure only comes down to the rule. I think with that sensitivity, we're too thin and it's really best to regulate the law. In Article 38, I am really trying to be as concrete as possible. It's a good thing there's as little administration as possible, there's a possibility of a joint institute. Taking over employees of no one in local self-government and management is not a joy because there are certainly greater demands than the wages spoken of here. As far as the internal structure and other technical problems are concerned, I think this law, on behalf of the Club, is a good law that can still be improved in these technical elements by the second reading. Since we can say with this law waited a long time, but really, it's really good to try to prepare it until this first break in the summer and thus we will even, it's totally irrelevant to me when we say that some law is good because it's pre-election law. The law is simply good and should be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88809	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Nikola Sopcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88810	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have a very good proposal for a law on spatial planning and construction that fully and quality regulates this matter. For the first time, we have a regulated and spatial arrangement and construction that is certainly good. And this bill itself, when we adopt it, will stop a series of regulations and because many things are regulated in this bill itself. Let me look back a little bit on the part that applies to the spatial device. The draft law thus regulates and protects areas of particular interest for the State, which has so far been regulated by the regulation. It refers to the protected coastal area of the sea, protected natural values and cultural and historical units, which fully regulates what is in this area and under what conditions can be built. The spatial planning documents regulate the way in which documents are adopted, their content and define why a document is necessary. Thus, the urban plan is made mandatory for construction works and parts planned for the restoration of construction areas, settlements and isolated construction areas. Here, it should be noted that just over the past few years, thanks to this Ministry, a huge shift has been made and a huge job in the adoption of business plans of municipalities and cities where the Ministry has specifically been involved in solving this problem and this financial assistance to municipalities that are unable to finance spatial plans themselves, as well as by reducing the necessary content for small municipalities, which has significantly and cost-effectively and has accelerated the adoption of spatial plans of municipalities. The law also does not foresee the obligation to adopt a general urban plan but the units of local self-government that have been brought by these GUPs for 10 years. The law itself very precisely defines the process of issuing consent as well as the deadlines for their release. It means agreeing to spatial plans because we know so far that often there has been a problem of coming out with the necessary consent. That doesn't apply to the Ministry for sure. But that's why the procedure could be very long. In the process of issuing a local authorisation as an administrative act issued by the basis of this law and spatial-planned documentation, the obligation to issue a local permit for buildings up to 400 metres of grossly developed gross surfaces as well as agricultural buildings shall be lifted up to 600 m of square meters. And only the removal of the local authorisation as an administrative act in the process of obtaining the necessary permits will significantly speed up the process of leaving them. So far, in the process of obtaining the necessary building permits, we have had two administrative acts, a location permit and a building permit, which has significantly delayed the process of obtaining the necessary documentation. And that was, as a rule, the biggest investor's remark in the construction of individual buildings. Also, this Bill of Law very precisely defines urban cohesion, its purpose, way and procedure, which is very important for the possibility of forming individual building particles in line with detailed arrangements. The regulation gives local self-government units the opportunity to establish the necessary building plots to build certain public, social content because we know that this has been a problem so far. Even with this story about entrepreneurship zones where we often have problems with buying land by buying 10 plots and ultimately leaving you with one parcel that you can't solve. It's inside the zone. The owner doesn't agree. Bringing a comcommissioning plan can simply form a plot that is singled out and the zone can be operational. As a whole, which relates to the construction of the bill very precisely defines the participants in the construction, their powers and obligations. Also, building permits do not require building permits for buildings up to 400 square meters as well as for agricultural up to 600 square meters, but enough is the solution to building conditions. I do not agree that this will have a significant impact on the price of construction because the documentation itself that applies to the outcome of the solution is a significantly reduced content, i.e. An idea project is sufficient, which in itself and cheapens the price of construction and speeds up the process of walking which also affects the price of construction. True, this bill does not affect those costs of construction such as municipal contribution but it is not regulated by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction but is purely in the domain of the units of local self-government. I would also look back a little on the process of removing buildings and I welcome this proposal that buildings up to 400 square meters do not require a permit to be removed. We know that there are very many objects that are derutable, which are dangerous in the environment to be removed, and very often the owners did not engage in their removal because of the complicated process of entering the removal permit. I believe that this solution will make it easier to remove such objects that are both dangerous and unnecessarily. For all this and for the sake of the quality of this bill, I think it should be accepted in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88811	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88812	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister and Assistant. It is here that a historic proposal for a law on spatial regulation that lists the most important things and is actually a complete newspaper, preceding a regulation on the protection of the coastal sea zone, which has been built and stopped by illegal construction, the devastation of public maritime goods has been stopped and roads have been paved to bring spatial plans of cities, municipalities and counties as soon as possible, and I believe that by the end of this year all 556 units of local and regional self-government will bring spatial plans. This is a prerequisite that this very bill could be applied and that it could be truly to the satisfaction of all citizens, all those who want to build, all those who respect order in space could fully and fully apply. I am particularly glad that this bill includes the alliance of cities, I would like more and the alliances of the municipalities and the Croatian Community of County, which is exactly the right way to share responsibility with all participants in the process starting from municipalities, cities and counties to the Croatian Assembly. In this way, responsibility is strengthened, the systematicity of the inclusion of all entities is highlighted, and a number of controversy, for example, and confrontations in the daily newspaper “Vjesnik” between architects, says exactly how this approach to the public, which one of the principles of this law has just been put in place, is being Internetized in the right way. The debate, agreements and associations are also contained in this bill, and the most important among other things are proposals for the foundation of the Croatian Institute for Spatial Development of the State, the institution for the spatial planning of the county. And big cities can establish seductions, and it's just like public institutions. It is these kinds of institutions that the institutions were missing and which would actually be a guarantee that spatial plans were passed professionally, in a legal way, prescribed way and what I would firstly point out is legal persons, authorised architects who seemed even more responsible and more responsible for performing the professional affairs of spatial order because the architects had also contributed and carried a good part of the responsibility and guilt for the situation which was found in early 2004 because it was just the architectural profession that was below the necessary professional level or expected ethical principles. But the most important are just the things that I will briefly repeat – the protected coastal area of the sea. This part of the proposal for a law has taken over almost entirely the Regulation on a protected coastal sea zone, which is fully protected by the protected coastal area and is precisely for the purpose of protection and sustainable purposeful and economically efficient use, a certain and protected coastal area has been established. Among other things, this also protects drinking water sources, provides free access to the coast, passage by the sea, and public interest in the use of especially maritime goods. It is certainly possible to build individual or more buildings in a protected coastal area only if the urban planning of space is adopted in accordance with this law. Building areas are also defined, so it is specified in Article 50, which are areas, in which percentages can be built part and in what way, which part must be reduced if its built part is smaller, very precise, very clear, modern and nomotechnically well-assembled. Of course, the limitations of spatial procedures in the protected coastal area in Article 51 are the result of just real life and what is happening on the burden, and many of us and tourist experts warn about how harmful it is to spread spatial plans and to enable mass construction by fearing precisely large and massive tourism that will leave us with ecological consequences and reduced financial gains. It is precisely those restrictions that say what can not be done and where it cannot be done, and certainly it is permitted to make exceptions and can be planned, to build a ground floor building up to 200 m away from at least 300 m and 100 m on the islands of the coastal line for the purposes of the declared family holding and providing catering and tourist services in a rural household with a plot size of at least three hectares, and that is a good area, because the one which, in the current exploitation of agricultural land, does not have at least a Polish house can not build it and cannot build it if that area is not exactly as it says 3 hectares here and as it is very clear in this article 51. Of course, further planning of catering and sports purposes also comes up with every support because it is very precise about the density of use, it is about the construction of individual buildings, it is about the exact percentages, the surface of the camp, which is 15 hectares with respect for the natural vegetation found and the parts of the coast. It is to be possible that indeed our tourism when we speak in this part of the precisely planned hospitality and touristic sports purposes is transformed into the Mediterranean as it once was and how it was best described by Petar Hektorovic in his "fishing and fishing complaints". Of course, in Article 52(3) of nautical tourism in the construction area of the settlement, an isolated building area with a maximum of 400 connections of good provision. But I would like the Ministry to finish the strategy of the port of nautical tourism as soon as possible where it will be very precise in the Croatian part of the Adriatic Sea how many ships we can receive, how many boats, how many yachts, which are polluters. We're a closed sea, it's a little sea, and when we turn on the Italian part. It must not happen to us, and we can also use the experience of Lake Boden where you cannot buy a new boat unless you have an anchor and you do not have permission to lower one ship and you can place your boat in that place. Let it be a lesson for us to continue. It is very clear and useful to highlight the sea beaches in Article 53, which is arranged and coastal, and the natural sea beach, is said to be accurate and what we need to have in such places that many want natural, that others want less natural. And what needs to be pointed out again and again over and over again is exactly a facilitated and accelerated construction procedure whose gross surface is not more than 400 squares for housing and family exclusively agricultural activity up to 600 meters of square relief, accelerated procedure. As is the case with what is stated in Article 137 of urban cooperation. Newspaper, historical institute, very important. The process is the merger of particles within the building land into one whole and its division into building and other particles is formed in accordance with a detailed plan of arrangement of space while at the same time setting up ownership and other real-estate relations in order to implement a detailed plan of arrangement of space. The urban commission process needs to be stopped once again is a breakthrough, speeding up and ending work. And what is particularly important, as this proposal also states, is that it really cares for the officials. The salaries of officials taking over units of local and regional self-government are secured in the state budget for the month of November and December 2007, regardless of when it is granted to local units or regional units that take over these operations. So we gave the humane line to this law to take care of the officers who will depend on the speed of issuing our valuable permits and papers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88813	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kruno Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88814	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Namely, here are just a few words from the aspect of local self-government. In fact, just that in this law that I think is complete and detailed and that it makes a number of changes in dealing with space, and clearly in building, there are several important things for local self-government. One of them's the first one. I'm saying it right there in cities and municipalities where it's pretty much built, where it's hard to get to land and where local self-government really has to make a lot of efforts to actually buy some land. 'Cause, you know, go on. Secondly, we're talking about our own urbanists. In fact, we have also defined by law that large cities, besides others, can have their own urbanists in their work. So, for example. These cities over 35,000 inhabitants, but perhaps you should consider others and some county seats, such as Gospic, Virovitica do not have 35,000, but I think that as county seats they have the right. Or perhaps it should be extended to cities that can establish such a department, they can pay the difference, or keep urbanists in the profession at all. So that's how I think we'd make it easier to control the space. Because the fact that in many cities, municipalities, we don't know what's going on, I look at us too, we see buildings and plants and almost where we don't expect them, which creates clearly additional problems. Furthermore, it is, I must say more about the construction inspection. The building inspection works well. The fact is that in further proceedings, especially if something comes to court, in court, then it slows down a little bit, it works well. But it's going to work very well when it comes to construction, construction inspectors are looking for a project, an implementing project, because I can say that the mass of houses, so a lot of private houses were built without a trace, a visible trail of architects. So the owner simply draws the builder what to build him and it pops up. This way we're sure to stop a whole series of things. And what the building inspectors are burdening it is certainly what I have already said, these are traces of the 2001 populist law when the coast was devastated, when there was excessive apartmentisation due to illegal construction, because it was normal for everyone to be paid to build an illegal facility because they could join this change in the laws to the municipal infrastructure that we, fortunately, had abolished and had been greatly prevented. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88815	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mrs. Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88816	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Markovinović, here I have to replicate, giving you the possibility of a natural answer. Namely, I'd like to ask you when was the last time you saw anywhere, but anywhere at any facility, so I'm not speaking at family facilities, but even at larger buildings that the building inspector came out. If you've seen it in your place, please tell me with the record to confirm it. I claim that there are no inspections, that it is insufficient, that it can hardly be counted with what is being built against the law or lawlessly across the country in various areas, let alone to have time to control the quality of construction. And that's why I'm telling you right now, I'm saying that by not having any inspections, and the main project will have to be on the site to create an opportunity to build without a project. And it will be built without the main project and there it is, there will be a reduction in quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88817	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88818	Thank you. Here, I think colleague Chichin Shain is looking at everything through the prism of Zagreb. It is in Zagreb, Zagreb is a big city and it is difficult to spot an inspector amongst the crowds. But in the small environments, we've organized it very well, we've provided all the logistics. Even when they didn't have a car, we gave an escort to the inspectors. So, we've done everything, and our inspection works very well, and I can commend and cooperate with the headship. What happens in Zagreb is that you know better than I do because you are finally in the city's congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88819	Thank you very much. Here, I'd like to inform the MPs that the vote on agenda points will be at 13 o'clock. We don't predict much time around it, nor have there been any controversial special points, but even if there were too many agenda points in these next sessions, I think I'm calling for us to respond and sound what we have... Now it's Mr. Representative Slaven Letica's turn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88820	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the protection of space is one of the last features of the defence of Croatian national interests and I am very sorry, and it is not quite an accident that there are no representatives from the ranks of the SDP. On such historical occasions, they usually almost accidentally disappear. I'm very glad that at least someone stayed with the CNS, although there are plenty of reasons that Mr. Srecko Ferenčak was there because he witnessed on his own example how he should treat the space. Asking for permission from the city to build a centre for the most needed in New Zagreb by direct contract building unhappy our colleague resold it to a trade chain, earned about a million kuna in his own pocket and showed how personal example has great power in politics. Croatia's space yesterday and today is trying to defend itself with a whole series of serious projects. From demining projects to the first more serious study on environmental protection, although the concept of the environment has always made me anxious and unhappy because in Croatian it is related to the verb to surround it, so do not surround yourself with thinking about what is called the environment wrong in Croatia. That's pretty stupid, looks like something bizarre. And Croatia has sold everything more and more, so it has sold banks, trade chains, owed 31 billion euros, and the debt will grow to 40 billion euros over the next 4 years and the pressure on Croatia's space will be growing. I am also very pleased that there is also Mrs Blažević, a discreet woman who is fighting for Croatian space, one of the great first projects of this new ministry that has been inherited, indeed, something that was frightening, a completely urban lawlessness, even this situation that my colleague Kruno was talking about, that the work of the system of fostering illegal construction and savagery in construction, so we went from Zagreb to Mrs. Minister and Mrs. Blažević down to the garbage dump in Donja Gora and the next old railway towards the south I noticed that Mrs. Blažević had insight into almost every illegally built facility. When we came to Plitvice, she said we haven't lost the battle of law yet, we might be able to take down this tastelessly built motel. Therefore, when it comes to this Law, it is good that the first reading should organise discussions because corruption in the area of pressure on space is not only material nature, it is not only organised criminals, war profiters of the type Vladimir Zagorec and various other types, but there is intellectual corruption. So people who aren't private bad urbanists aren't bad architects, but somebody always knows their bad point. Therefore, I would like further, further work on this Law to be considered on two natural resources that are being exploited today in a cultural non-civilisation way. The first of these resources is also close to the vice president of our High House, which is river gravel and river sand. Today, they are installed through concessions and various other mechanisms into idiotic concrete systems even though they should be exclusively in Croatia, because these floods are used for the sole processing of Croatian beaches by several hundred or thousands of years. Croatian beaches are created in two ways today. On the one hand, there's a pressure on the sea, and that's what my colleague Peronja said and he knows about it. When you win the sea you come to a lack of beaches. The beaches can be engrossed exclusively with the river gravel in Croatia in abundance if it is not built into concrete, and if you will work for railway lines, and now, there is one of the biggest investments, will you be installing... Or the gravel that's been real for a thousand years from the point of view of that threshold is just the same, and you can't possibly figure it out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another major resource is fertile land. Austro-Hungarians had strict laws, never had settlements built and were not allowed to build on where potatoes, tomatoes, where even wild lemons or oranges succeed. Therefore, they must be strict rules in this area when roads, highways, railways, houses are built, that one system of land management must be created because this land is a humus product of thousands of years and it is simply legally necessary for the builders to force them to do so before they are cemented or paved that space, or otherwise, for a large number of years to be done in such a way that it is exploited. I'm saying it because one part of me is an immigrant family who fled from Croatia to New Zealand for lack of land. When he came to New Zealand he began to deal with the business of selling exactly such a country, where he was passing the road they finely built humus and having experience which is not close to his colleague Baby who has the wealth of the Neretva Delta, but to me it is close, with us today one kilo of land is worth 20 kuna. I want to say everything in everything next. The debate should be held until the second reading in this High House in a system of serious debates to which not only young, talented Croatian architects and urbanists would be invited. I had one of the failed projects with the late dictator in the '90s. Namely, I wanted the Croatian state to create several model projects for family buildings. So, from 100 squares to 500 squares that would be done by Croatian architects who would respect the architectural Mediterranean tradition, that this is given to families free of charge and that the projects they take over have the right to get a free and short construction permit. If you're watching what construction looks like in Dalmatia today, there are styles everywhere. From Ukraine, from Russia, from Turkish and Ottoman times. It's a terrible thing. However, there is always comfort. Futures as well as the present should be accessible in a productive way. The late Radovan Ivancevic, who often lied but had some knowledge, claims that Dubrovnik was built on a spaceless space, and became one of the most beautiful cities in the world. Therefore, in this sense, perhaps from that nightmare of savagery, the actions of an operative before the appearance of the Minister who I end up working from morning to night to 8 and belonging to the category of several Croatian women to whom Ruža Tomasic, who, unlike men, is a coward trying to deal with the great evils of this society, does not count on any support that they will get from associations dealing with the protection and promotion of human rights, has no fide. I'm pretty sure he won't get any medals from the Office of the President of the Republic, but that's another story. And it also has to do with this construction lobby and organized crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88821	Fellow MPs! I want to believe that a fellow representative of Slaven Letica when he mentioned the late dictator did not mean anyone in Croatia, since all Croatian representatives of the executive authority were elected by democratic means, and then none could be a dictator so far. We have one replica. Mr. Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88822	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! A fellow Letica in his very inspired speech at the beginning of his debate expressed regret that there was no party in the assembly. Let's go! Let's go, let's go, let's go, Do you know what day it is? Today is a great day not only for Croatia, but for civilization at all. Today is Youth Day and today is Comrade Tito's birthday. And since the party is both political and legal heir to the character and works of what is today, what is celebrated, it's time for boys and girls to be at a party somewhere. As it means a lot to me on October 8, 1861, when it was a Rakovica rebellion, or as much as it means to me on May 30th when the first Croatian State Assembly was founded democratically elected or as it means a lot to me on June 25th, '91. when the Declaration of Independence was brought, and the same party was not here but escaped from this assembly, so they have the right not to be here today because today is the Day of Youth and the birthday of Comrade Tito. Here, it's like this for you as my colleague's representative, a little resent that you've expressed your regret that the Party is not in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88823	Thank you. Answer Mr. Representative Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88824	My friend Lonchar is a little too much to do. I didn't have that intention. My regret was sincere. This is about protecting space. And as for this dictator, so Joseph Broz Titus and he has a part of a useful past. Therefore, not all people are zero to the table, but rather compared to the late dictator Joseph Broz Tito, I would say 70:30. 70% negative, 30% positive. And what is positive is highly related to Croatian space, because this dictator did return a large part of Croatian space, and that is why it would be good for these people to be here today in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88825	We have a replica of Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88826	Your Honor, Mr. President! I was just offered this part of what my colleague Letica said about gravel and various machinations that are being done here, various-various lobbys, various-different interests. Just go back to the hospital at the end of town, so-called. University hospitals, so you'll see how and how it devastates and destroys, and everything is done by gravel under cover that we're doing outcast channels, that we're doing rowing trails so I don't say what, and that's basically the use of gravel, and unfortunately, it seems to me that such a concession has been given by the Ministry of Agriculture and the water economy. Kubik cost you 40 kuna. There's nothing there, just a bagger getting in the truck. And that's it, it's destroying itself. Or another or similar situation as the same can be done under cover legally is the case with Drava and the Međimurje area, where I think it was issued somewhere about a few thousand solutions for the construction of ponds, but no pond, no pond, was ever made, but it was only done for the purpose of reaching gravel, it was sold, and eventually it was a devastated space. It's your situation as well as the way it goes. It's the area and the Drava and all those plums. Here, I think Mr. Lesar probably knows about the part where the license for the ponds was issued. I never, not a single pond is nobody, nor can a fish be bought. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88827	Mr. Letica's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88828	Yeah. Mr. Pero Kovacevic is only as far as I understand I supported this fundamental idea which is very unarticulated. I'm not an expert in management or gravel or sand. However, as far as the City of Zagreb is concerned, there are urban ones I will not say crimes but major violations. On several occasions I tried to do something about the threat case and the major cultural crime related to the construction of "Agram" skyscraper on the "Freedom" bridge, which was also obtained by the abuse of the President of the Republic of Stjepan Mesic, who came there believing that he lays the foundation stone for the construction of the art organ and tissue plant "Gener" and then my colleague from my university who was otherwise a very nice and dear professor, Professor Slobodan Vukicevic resold it to the insurance company, cleaned up the pocket of 6 million and 400,000 kuna, and today my criticism doesn't touch him at all. In fact, when he sees me he says let's have a cup of coffee, he's got his money in his pocket, he double-crossed Milan Bandic and cheated on the President of the Republic. No one can do anything to him, and unfortunately this is the phenomenon of the settlement of cities and the settlement of the City of Zagreb in an area of very extensive literature.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88829	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Damir Cain who's not here. It's Mrs. Koshasha Chichin-Shain's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88830	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm just waiting for this debate to end inside the bench. So, I would continue what I started to say when I spoke in front of the club in the section that now refers to part of the law relating to construction, to construction. So let's say we're as much of this space part as we've been. In fact, urban plans remain in force for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of entry into force of the law, with the possibility of changing or supplementing them and putting them out of force. The local permit shall be issued for buildings other than buildings whose building gross surface is not greater than 400 square meters, and for agricultural buildings not greater than 600 square meters, of course, and for simple buildings for which the minister will determine by the rules for which they are. The procedure for the entry of the local authorisation is very detailed. The applicant should attach an idea project, not an idea solution, as it has been so far. The competent authority shall convene the so-called so-called. the conference to collect special conditions, and does not seek them in writing as so far. That's something we had somewhere I mean in the '70s back there. They are generally called directly by a public invitation and are heard by the party owners of the property for which the location permit and owners of direct real estate are issued, i.e. holders of other real rights on these same properties from Croatia to Croatian translated neighbours. Also, as a newspaper, obtaining the opinion of the Architectural Performance Commission, I would like to ask here if it is something of a model to the former beauty commission of the City of Zagreb, because I think it was not good. The newspaper introduced the Institute of Change and Supplements of Location Permissions. The specific chapter of the proposal is dedicated to the organisation of construction land, the resolution of property-legal relations, the issue of permits for necessary works, construction, reconstruction, reconstruction of the terrain and all obligations of various units of local self-government. A local permit and a solution on building conditions in parts of the building area for which the law requires the adoption of a spatial arrangement implementing document except for replacement buildings which, by definition of the proposal, must be located or close to the existing building within the same building particle of course. Particles which do not significantly change the purpose, appearance, size and impact of the environment or reconstruction may only be issued if the building particle is arranged in terms of access, disposal, parking space in accordance with the implementing document of spatial arrangement or arrangement at least the groundwork according to the programme according to the specific law in accordance with that plan is started. If the same area is not subject to the obligation to adopt a spatial planning document, the building particle must also be arranged in the same sense, but in accordance with the spatial plan or the arrangement is started. So, the same at least groundwork based on the programme under special law. Therefore, in addition to the above-mentioned obligation to make urban planning and planning for the restoration of the construction area, I stress that the urban planning of the planning and arrangement of the building particle in that sense becomes a condition for the issue of a local authorisation. This is very important. The team is certain that if urban planning is not adopted in the City of Zagreb and if the city does not edit the building land in the legal sense, the continuity of construction could remain. The more the community contribution is charged, the more I underline this, the more the team charges in the process of confirming the main project under the previously issued local permit and issuing a building solution, which acts would be left behind if urban planning of the arrangement or building particles were not adopted. This weakens the initial financial force of the city, since before the investors receive funds from the municipal contribution, significant funds must be allocated to adopt the first urban planning arrangements and significant spatial zones to become similar to that of administrative acts, i.e. to translate them into Croatian. According to the proposal, the location permit and the solution under the construction conditions can only be issued for particles within the zone for which the law does not prescribe the obligation to adopt spatial order implementing documents and which are regulated. So building a building can be accessed on the basis of the following. Thus, the solution under building conditions for buildings whose building gross surface is no more than 400 square squares and a agricultural building of 600 squares. Two building permits for buildings defined by the Government by a regulation and for those built in the area of two or more counties, or the City of Zagreb, confirmed main project for others, all other citizens and without acts are approved for the construction of simple buildings, which is once again determined by the minister. A detailed process of issuing a solution to the conditions of construction for the investor is laid down. It contributes to others and an idea project and proof that it has the right to build. They are called, parties are heard, municipal and water contributions are paid. However, the solution cannot be issued if the building particle is not arranged in a predetermined sense. In the process of confirming the main project, the investor must submit the main project with an imported review of the text of the location permit, other technical documentation and proof that it has the right to build. Exceptionally for non-classified roads, pipelines, waterways, drains, low voltage power lines, evidence that it has the right to build is also the government's decision to determine the State's interest or to call for a provision of legislation which determines the State's interest in building a building for which the needs of the main project are sought. Communal and water contribution is paid. The certificate, however, cannot be issued, yet cannot be issued if the building particle is not arranged in a predetermined sense. The conditions, consent and opinions of the body or persons designated by specific regulations on the compliance of the project with the specific regulations shall be issued at the request of the investor or designer, and, if they do not, they shall be requested by the competent authority. The building permit is issued by the Ministry. The changes that the investor intends to make during the construction of the sea for buildings for which the solution under construction is issued must be subject to the amendment and addition of the building conditions solution, i.e. such works can only be accessed on the basis of the amended and updated main project submitted to the competent authority. For the buildings for which the project certificate is issued, an amendment and or confirmation of the main project should be made, and where the conformity to the location permit is changed, an amendment of the location permit should be made. For buildings for which a building permit is issued, a change should be made. If the investor changes during the construction, the new investor is obliged to change the building permit or the building conditions solution. Therefore, in the case of a change in investor in the case of construction approved by the confirmation of the main project, no specific act should be put in place. As far as legalisation is concerned, if the building is built without building approval, a special administrative fee is also paid. I think a special administrative fee is being paid and where it started, where the inspector found the party that started construction. The decision on the state of play in small buildings shall be issued for buildings which have been built at least one floor and through and suitable for use without a solution to the conditions of construction. The procedure shall demonstrate, among other things, compliance with the spatial plan and shall be called and heard by the parties. Once again, a municipal water contribution is paid but there is a special administrative fee, I call it punishment. A certificate of performance for large buildings shall be issued for buildings built in the name of those parts which are relevant for the achievement of its purpose to the extent appropriate for use without confirmation of the main project. A location permit must be established previously. A municipal water contribution and a special administrative fee shall be paid. So, as far as all these allegations are concerned, I have something else about illegal construction, it is important to note, therefore, that the investor and the competent administrative authority are colluding with a complex and highly confusing composition of administrative and irregular procedures. It's unclear about simple structures when you can, for example, start using simple buildings, at which point. As far as the facility is concerned, I would especially like to highlight those dates on February 15th, '68. and date 19.6.1991. As for '68. A newspaper shall be introduced in which, if the catastrian office or the Central Office of the State Geodesy Administration does not have the information on the basis of which it is possible to issue a conviction of the time of registration of the building, the competent administrative authority shall issue a conviction of the time of construction. It is difficult to imagine the implementation of those provisions in practice. Also, as regards those 19.6.1991 dates and facilities that were built between '91. and in 2003, they shall not be subject to a valid permit if the construction is not subject to the construction inspection procedure. Instead of using the permit, the competent administrative authority shall issue a conviction that the structure has been built in accordance with the building permit in respect of only external gauges and purposes. It is expected that those beliefs will not be issued in practice for those residential and business buildings which have been built in accordance with the building permit for the basic facility but for the completion of the purpose of the individual business premises of the place no specific location permits have been issued. Therefore, it can be concluded from the above that local permits will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88831	Finish it, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88832	And the building conditions solutions can only be issued provided that the building particles are arranged in accordance with the provisions of the spatial plan. And I think there's going to be a lot of problems, and in the final word, I'm going to say something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88833	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88834	It's more of a request to my colleague Chichin-Shain. Namely, the HNS area was given the opposite decision by the City's headship not to assign groundwater spaces for non-commercial purposes. However, there's a photographer named Kopesic, and that unfortunate man was kidnapped by the toilet. There are three women working in this Kopesic. They've been there for 45 years, so I'd like to ask Mrs. Chichin-Shain to go to HNS to let these women go to the bathroom that they went to for 45 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88835	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It is Mrs. Mirjana Brnadić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88836	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here, it is indeed before us and right now this is a historic moment in solving the problem of spatial planning and construction. After years of problems and riots in space, and I can say it rightly and because I come from the island of Vir where I live but I have a building permit for my facility and attempts, long-standing attempts to introduce what order in the space we finally have a bill that solves this problem in a whole, efficient and feasible way. And therefore all praise to the minister, to her associates, to the government who has given support to this bill and to all the laws so far, regulations, strategies, rules and all that preceded the adoption of this bill, which is, in fact, a point on and on spatial planning and construction. I wouldn't be talking about the objectives of this law right now, the issues that are being settled, all the possible solutions because my predecessors have already said that, and in fact, everyone has unanimously reached out that this bill is excellent. So I would briefly refer to certain provisions because I think it is necessary to comment on them or even possibly change something. So I would like to comment on article 16, actually first of all I would say something about where this point 4.6 is about the height of the cascade building is completely forgotten and this definition prevents the realization of the building on the slopes, and we especially in the coastal area have a lot of land that is so naturally set up that the only possible cascade type of building is. In Article 16, the derogation from the essential requirements for construction. There are many buildings that are not individually listed in the Cultural Monuments Register but actually form a protected set of buildings and, in my opinion, this exception should apply. In Article 107, the designer can only make a statement when the project is truly in line with the spatial plan. An idea project should be developed before obtaining data from competent services because we often witness different interpretations of the provisions of the plan and within the same service. Article 109 states that an applicant and a designer must be contacted for insight into an idea project. We are aware of the fact that the investor is often absent and that actually the designer for him is doing all the work, so in my opinion, maybe you should put that investor in charge of his projector who can represent him, not that he comes from America, from Germany, from what part of the world to make an insight into an idea project. Article 191 states: an idea project. I think you should specify what's an integral part of the idea, which is, what's part of the idea project? Is there, in and out of statistics, this static and electricity and water. If central heating is foreseen whether the engineering project is going and so on. This Regulation shall enter Decision on the conditions of construction. So it is said that everything needs to be attached to the request for a solution to the conditions of construction. And the final evidence is of the payment of the municipal and water contribution and the construction fee under special law. I think that this should in some way be taken out of the list of everything that is required to contain the request because these payments are paid when it is found that a decision on the conditions of construction can really be issued. That this facility could be in that space. Not that you're paying up front for something you might not get. This also applies to the confirmation of the main project and to some other requests submitted by the parties for, concerning the requirements of the facilities. This Regulation shall enter A process of issuing a solution to the conditions of construction. And it is said that the buildings, that the building particle is arranged within the meaning of Article 125, that is, Article 126(1) of this Act. What are these consensual consents and who are they to surrender to? And there's something that I find very important to comment on. Spacious plans are generally allowed to build only family buildings with septic pits. If we have tourist apartments within such buildings does this mean that there is no construction until the construction of a public disposal system for all other buildings? We have cases in Dalmatia, and also in cities that, in cities where there is no sewerage in that part of the city or in smaller cities where there is no sewerage at all that we have buildings with 20, 30 apartments or apartments, with 30 apartments where there are no system drains of waste water but are built, projected septic caves that are actually low capacity. And what's most important of all is not the solution to how you finally get here, these wastewaters get away somewhere when a septic pit is filled? Because we don't have room, we don't have a purification device that can accept the contents of septic caves, and we don't have a specific place where that content can be postponed. And we actually have a terrible mess in the area where waste water is being dumped everywhere in the woods and on various surfaces where we actually have the danger of protecting people's health and so on. Here's something, it's something that should be systematically solved and what's actually a big problem is both in issuing permits and later in control and in using objects. This Regulation shall enter Confirmation of the main project. So I also have the same observation as before that payment, payment fees are subject to special law and proof that it has the right to build on a building particle or cover the procedure on which it intends to build or on an existing building. So he's paying something he might not need because he's not getting a permit. His main project won't be confirmed. This Regulation shall enter Same thing. Request for a solution to the performance. It is therefore illogical to pay before obtaining a positive solution at the party's request. And article 318, which speaks of violations of a supervisory engineer. I believe that 15 thousand kunas are too small and too stimulating for an engineer and chief supervisor if they carry out these jobs and are employed by a contractor or contrary to Article 317. So there is too little punishment for the benefit it can bring to the contractor or to the investor. Thank you very much. It was my short and small contribution to the debate on the first proposal, on the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which I consider to be excellently prepared and that we really need to vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88837	We have one replica. Mr. Zeljko Kurtov please. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88838	Mr. Vice President, I have no doubt in these words that colleague Brnadić said this law is getting much better. However, if it is true that Minister Biskupic, together with two mayors, opens facilities in a nature park in Vranjska Lake at the same time a year, two earlier in that same nature park, private facilities are collapsing. I don't know what kind of message that is to the citizens. We can do whatever we want and how now, Madam Minister, we can experience the proposal of this law if, at the same time, the largest officials of the Republic of Croatia violate that same law, and in every respect, I think that this proposal, the first reading of this law, is for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, if this is true, and I have information that, from journalists and from all others, objects, ministers, mayors, and 5,6 heads of the municipality are being opened in the park of nature. I think it's scary while at the same time we are here discussing the proposals of the Construction Act to improve the situation for citizens and so on. I think we just have to convict you as Minister of Resorna first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88839	Mrs. Brnadic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88840	Thank you very much. In the park of nature can be built under special conditions. And if you found out such information from the press, I didn't read it then you could send a direct letter or an oral letter to the minister to answer if it's true because you make sure that no minister is going to, will allow such luxury and such a procedure to open an object for which there is no permit to build or any permit under a special law in the nature park. And as for building housing in the nature park, you know very well that it requires a building permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88841	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with an associate, ladies and gentlemen. So here's what I want you to do. Let me track down the order that's already been put into space planning, and also construction, try to ask myself some questions for you. I'm putting myself in the role of users, and one of those who has to create some assumptions that our citizens, natural and legal persons, could still start certain constructions. Local and regional self-government is mentioned. Certain obligations shall be imposed on spatial-planned documentation and, on the other hand, the administration shall be reduced to the account of the users. Namely, I ask myself how many units of local self-government this hour have prepared or made spatial plans where family construction, construction of industrial buildings, business zones, lower-ranking facilities, let's say farms, so communal infrastructure, not to mention roads, etc. where detailed plans have been made, urban planning of the settlement center itself so business zones and all together and where our citizen can actually at this time or there is said to be in two, three months or four months when this law takes effect to obtain conditions of construction. I'm afraid the intention is truly noble and I think it's good to shorten the procedure. I'm one of the participants who's happy if six months and if I can get a building permit through the agency for one infrastructure facility because it's a mile, three or five, it's still long. Because from the definition of ownership, the right to build, when all this is defined together we come across a series of problems, because our first grant books are owned by a terrible definition, we all know that. When we can figure it out, when the projector gets into the designs, when he gets the conditions, when this, yeah. Not to say, and it's good if, it's already for us investors half the job if we can get to the building permit. Now, the family house, there's been said up to 400 square meters and it's already been asked if she has to have enough to have just a floor line, which I know, cut one and a roof, height set all together or must actually have everything in the idea solution defined. Does it mean the solar heat to heat up, if it has liquid water, if it has rainwater to add it up, if it has access, I don't know, from the hip, if it's facing the north the main entrance and everything together. That trust me, there are no such plan-space documents at the lower level so far. And I'm not sure who can do it right now. And whoever designs it, they're going to project it. The projector designs on a building plot that we will quickly form, by the way, are formed, mostly in the majority because the gauges that must be known, the basic elements that must be assumed. And now I'm afraid that such an intention that has a noble purpose actually has no basis for what it must be done. And that's why I'm asking you to consistently implement those laws that we've passed, speed up procedures, and really make them do it. But there are exceptions where you take away some of our resources, where income is once again, good units of local self-government that have the opportunity to release part of their users' municipal contributions, water contribution is and so is not direct income to one part. But if this trend continues to burden local self-government, and on the other side of the discharge, then I assure you that we need direct help more instance, that we need to figure out the possibility of the institutions that are somewhere else are not spatial-planned documentation can be developed and that we have someone to rely on. And I'm left with a dilemma right now in an article that, by the way, I welcome this article, 104 says, a building for exclusively agricultural activity whose building gross surface is no more than 600 square meters. For now, it's farms that satisfy up to 50... The throats and for them we had to do even if there was sweating in the lagoons, if there was a harmful impact on the environment and studies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If that's the article on that trail, then you should welcome it anyway. However, it is questionable to build such a farm that will not have its own static budget, a revision of the general statistics, all together, is now said to be able to build this on an idea solution. I'm setting up a dilemma for myself, and it's probably gonna have to be either a sublegal interpretation or some other article that would regulate it. Because only on an idea solution is it really not possible to read and build such a single farm, especially that one such a minimum is worth 2 million kuna. And if that's to speed up construction, I welcome it anyway, but it should be given to the end of the interpretation so there's no confusion. Because on an idea solution to build one such farm I don't believe anyone would dare and enter into such a general one, especially since we are now participants when HAMAG gives us consent and when we go to HBOR for credits that we have any problems when both construction and implementation audits of the static and all of this together are made to get credit. And there's no fellow Letica to try now because I didn't go, I had no right to do that, because cities are moving in or villages are urbanizing. Believe me, I assure him, but let me say in my debate that when the villages were established that they had jobs and urbanists, that they also had security guards, that those who deal with nature, because every village was established as a central place, the church raised it to the highest possible hill. About all of this, everyone agreed. So they built a park, so they built a school, so they made all the other facilities they needed. And I think, by this law and the same regulations or similar, we all have to respect each other. It means that villages don't become our cities, but to be polite environments where it's better to live than in a urban environment where unfortunately people are just numbers and... They pass by each other and they don't know each other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, here comes Mr. Letica, I believe that we will not make mistakes to turn the villages or to install them or to be urban environments without content, but to be beautiful destinations for the lives of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88843	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Zvonimir Sabati's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88844	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I would certainly like to start by saying that, that this is one of the reform laws, I think I can also call it that, in essence, introduces significant newspapers, but it is also the law that introduces a significant level of decentralisation. So the word here is unfortunately units of local self-government, i.e. regional self-government get significant powers which is good and it is absolutely positive and will get support I would say from the total local self-government, but will unfortunately not get additional funding. So it's a decentralisation of power, but it's not followed by financial decentralisation. Countys and cities are obliged to provide spatial conditions, to take over existing personnel, but also to secure salaries and other material prerequisites from their own original incomes so that they will certainly find the implementation of this Law very expensive. It is equally positive that finally cities have been given the opportunity to take better care of space protection directly. A large number of mayors have often criticised the current institutions, so the current legislation predicates them with complexity, slowness and inability to include cities in these procedures. This proposal should make these procedures simple, quick, cheaper and quality for the reason that it is reform-related to smaller facilities, meaning family houses, smaller facilities for crafts, agriculture and tourism. It's really important to see if for a large number, and I've said this a little while ago as it applies to the largest number, so whether it'll be simpler for that large number of people than before, faster and cheaper, but certainly with less, and I'd say here with your permission the best and the most honest without corruption, or whether we'll end up with some lobbies that destroy the environment and who often want to admit it to me or not a series of documents of spatial arrangements and adjustments. As for a large number of smaller municipalities, it will not be for them, I would say, in this essential part of such significant changes because they do not have the need to set up their own public institution, but for them will be done by the county public institution, of course the question at which the price is at which it should be regulated more precisely by this Law. During this debate, it may be my own belief that there is little talk about what makes us a decision on the co-operation from the aspect of private property integrity, but perhaps because of the need for units of local, regional self-government to bear costs, because it is its interests. Furthermore, in Section 2.10 of the Law in question concerning urban co-operation, it is proposed to clarify the concept of a proportionate reduction for isolated areas, which appears in particular in Articles 164 and 165 of that Law. By logical interpretation of these provisions, it is apparent that for the part of the land which is the subject of the commission, no compensation is paid in relation to that part which falls to a proportional reduction for the isolated areas. In the event that the legislator wanted to sign the provisions of Article 164 and Article 165 that no compensation would be paid for part of the land allocated, such a provision would be contrary to the constitutional principle set out in Article 50. The Constitution under which the exemption is prohibited and extremely permitted if provided for by law, but only subject to the payment of the market fee. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution should then be replaced and harmonised in a way that also provides for the payment of a fee under market conditions for a given part of the land. If, however, the legislator wanted to provide for the fee for the land allocated, it would be necessary, either by law, to clarify the form in question or at least in the light of the law, to provide an authentic interpretation which would make it clear that the land would also be paid for indemnity. Also, since in some ways over the past few years, we have often witnessed the introduction of various information systems both in education and in health care, it is planned in sport, etc., so I would also say that in the judiciary it is also that part... We're also talking about a catastrophe, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With the issue of the information system itself which is not clearly completed for this part, at least the catastre has just begun, the question of the harmonisation of the cadastre and the grantovnica, or whether the completion of the overall information system must now fall again to one good part and to the cost of units of local, or regional self-government. It would be good to coordinate it from the state level, however, for reasons that would then achieve a total of some kind of simplicity, compatibility of the system throughout the Republic of Croatia. Here are the few remarks I would say that as well as my club will support first and foremost this approach, so this proposal, I suppose, on the basis of the debate and Ms. Minister, will make some remarks and we will get a good enough-quality bill that will certainly enable all these processes to take place both easily and quickly, cheaper, but also equally quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88845	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88846	Here's what I'd like to do is replicate or correct the quote when Mr. Columbo said there was a decentralisation going on, and later he added that to them that... Powers, but of course not finances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is an extremely large cost that will be created in the county because it is not only about the salaries of officials who are of questionable quality, because we know that there are no personnel on the ground, but especially because of the material resources, the costs, the computers, about... systems that are not a small item. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so, we've decentralized jobs and we haven't said anywhere how much money the state will give to the county of that title.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88847	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. It's Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88848	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Madam Minister, in this incompetent government and with such a prime minister, I see you as the light of this government. I appreciate your determination, your courage. The only thing I don't understand is how you agreed to do it, you probably agreed to press Mr. Shucker and the rest of the government to continue decentralisation in the HDZ State's way of hunting, the commitment to regional self-government. You're now transferring 550 people as you said you worked in the offices of the state administration, transferring them to regional self-government. You don't just transfer these people, you transfer your obligations. And if you calculate how many for those 550 people it's on average for each county at least 20 million kuna. Because if we know that only the salaries for those 550 people will cost the regional self-government 100 million, and if we add to that what counterpart Alenka mentioned are cars, ficuses, space and everything else that's being transferred to the county, regional self-government, that's about 200 million in total. In the debate on the Law on Local Self-Government, we warned about the story of what would happen, we asked for funds to be provided in the budget, we asked that, with the obligations to be transferred to decentralisation, the funds were not made. I repeat, you are now probably under the party's pressure to do so, probably not funds or can't be provided for in the rebalancing because the law has not yet entered into force, has not been passed, so I can't be rebalancing and all this will be broken in the county. I'm asking you from this place to do it in the next reading, and I hope there will be a second and third reading because you yourself said it was done with some of the local communities, so there have been talks and some kind of law-making arrangements. However, as far as I know, it has not been spoken to the architects, the geodetics and all those who are interested in passing this law, and I hope that in the second and most likely, and I would also like to have a conversation with them in the third reading and that these things will be improved. I repeat, do not transfer your obligations to local self-government if you don't give them and the funds because we know very well what they are, especially the northern regions, in what conditions our counties are in the northern regions, it's a little better situation in the south and it'll be much better because they'll be able to get away without the state but we in the north anyway, without the help of the state, we can't do anything. I invite you once again to transfer those 550 people to the inspectorate, solve in any other way, especially what the inspectorate will need far more people to implement all of this as foreseen by this new bill. Take as many of these people as possible and don't transfer them to local self-government, regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88849	Thank you. We have two corrections, first Mr. Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88850	Mr. Vice-President, MP Kapraljevic said in his debate on decentralisation of state administration and state, that the state's hunting and the units of local self-government obligations. Well, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, in this law it is clearly prescribed that for that part of the official staff or staff who passes from state administration to local self-government they carry both funds and means money and equipment and everything in the local self-government unit and hence, sources of funding for these people are provided by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88851	Second correction, Mr. Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88852	Thank you... I will correct the other incorrect assumption, which is that the profession or architects are not consulted nor the others interested in this law, it is simply incorrect, it has nothing to do with the truth. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] You should have asked around or read the materials. And other incorrect allegations are your insinuations about the amount. You said at one point that there would be 20 million commitments per county, to say afterwards that the total obligation is 100 million kuna. You obviously don't know how many counties there are in this country. Because it's quite clear that they're pure insinuations, you're banging numbers without a clue.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88853	Thank you. It is up to Mrs. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac, who does not have the right to debate. And as the last lady representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain on behalf of the club, five minutes is final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88854	Thank you very much. Here, for the last five minutes. So in these good intentions we came to a law that has more pages of objections than articles, although the articles have 353. Therefore, there are particularly serious remarks in the part of the development of spatial plans that will stop investment in Croatia because the necessary changes will require complex procedures and plans for new content and new methodologies, especially in part of the obligation to make a strategic impact assessment on the environment. With this law, we return to the beginning. And only recently did we manage to bring in all the county plans that should now be revised and planned according to new criteria. Only now, thanks to the extraordinary efforts we have recorded the situation in space, prepared and provided assumptions for orderly management on the basis of basic protection of nature, space, cultural protection. These plans should be subject to a strategic assessment but let's not change the content of the plan, but in the context of the existing changes we just make. In the case of the first amendment and the addition of the plan, we will stumble and again return to the provisions of Article 58, which will suppress us, stop us and cost us a lot because all this is required in paragraph 2 of this article is knowingly collecting and stopping development. Furthermore, the question arises as to what is the objectivity of the expert environmental impact assessment, which are the criteria and what are the guarantees that this will be respected. It is a major interaction in the application of the Law on the Protection of the Environment and the Law on Spatial Planning, in particular with regard to the provisions of Article 49. It should be pointed out that the adoption of the rules on granting and withdrawing consent to the performance of spatial planning professional activities in the field has no profession since almost all local self-government units are entrusted to county institutions. For example, you have 28 units of local self-government in Varazdin County. All jobs are done at the institution in Varazdin. Now that this needs to be consensually agreed under the new law, there will be a blockade in spatial planning. For example, if the local self-government unit wants to open up a new business zone that is not planned, it will have to go on to amend and supplement the plan in the local self-government unit, which requires changes in the content and methodological nature. It is important that the lack of personnel, low-accumulated work on the market does not stimulate project companies to register at all and to deal with what ultimately means and lead to a halting of development in Croatia. The law specifically defines and transfers powers to the counties. What my colleague Kapraljevic pointed out, you could have calculated very simply. Multiply 550 people times 12 months of salary, gross salary of 15000 kuna, and you will come very easily that without material resources, without computers, without ficus and without piano is 200 million. Only once simple mathematics, very simple 12 months times 15000 kuna times 550 employees and it is now being transferred from the state at the obligation of the county. And maybe just for the last time I'd like to point out something about the procedures in the very issue of building and location permits. I honestly must tell you that, I don't think, unfortunately, anything will happen in improving and speeding up the issue of building permits. But it's gonna happen that we're gonna lose to the quality of the building. So that's why I'm asking because this is the first reading that is very thorough approach to making changes in this law to the second reading, and I think this law would deserve to go even into the third reading. It is certainly not a matter to bring over the knee or quickly, and unfortunately it was done in secret so that it could not be reached in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88855	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. The first is Mr. Matusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88856	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, if you had really taken the right figures then you would know that the monthly obligation for all counties is 3 million and 700,000 kuna, i.e. 44 million kuna per year for all of Croatia. What are your 200 million kuna numbers? Don't make up a salary, a gross salary of 15000 kuna. Tell me where they are for every employee, 15000 kuna gross salary. What are you talking about? Don't deceive the public about an obligation that isn't true. You said 200 million kuna. Just before your colleague said 20 million kuna, which means there should be over 400 million kuna. This is a clear correction to the incorrect quote because you said the exact amount was 200 million kuna. It is not true, but it is 44 million kuna for all of Croatia in a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88857	Correction, Mr. Marco Shirac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88858	Mr. Vice President, in her presentation, colleague Shain presented one notorious inaccuracy for the adoption of this law because we have just come to the spatial plans of bringing us back to the beginning. The passing of this law has just made it possible for us to develop these spatial plans and will be completed by the end of the year. And that's what made it possible for us to rationalize what we're going to achieve just like this, by passing this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88859	Thank you. Final Mrs. Matulović Dropulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88860	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, well, of course I can't answer every question. I could, but it would take too long and I don't have that kind of time. Clearly, we will consider all your comments and suggestions and whatever we can include. But what I think is important is to say the blockage of spatial plans was created in 2002 when the law was passed which, amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning which said there were no more deadlines for creating spatial plans. So no one was interested in making spatial plans anymore, and whoever wanted that radio, who didn't want to work. What is the intensity of this law is that we, as you know, had 114 spatial plans in 1.1.2004. Today, we have what has been brought in, which means a public debate and a final proposal of 538. So it's done everything possible to come up with spatial plans and, of course, that the intensity of this law is to make as few changes and additions to spatial plans as possible, because changes and additions of spatial plans shouldn't take place every two months or every five months. If we've planned the space well, then at least a few years should take us a couple of years. But be assured that this law and this proposal will not make it impossible for normal planning and exiting and resolving these amendments and supplementing these plans. But of course not with the same content, but with the same scope of the job that he wrote inside, he was never exactly and decoded. However, most of the spatial plans today have all this already explained and done. Since there was a lot of talk about local self-government and county units about the amount and the burden. Look, what I'm asking you to understand is that it wasn't a proposal from this government or this ministry, but rather a request from the great cities and counties to get local and construction permits. And we accepted it because we think it's good. This law provides that all the funds that otherwise the state budget has been allocated to these people, that they will stand out by the end of this year and the government has reached its conclusion when it referred to this public debate that in the coming years, because the government has the right to assume obligations for future budgets and for future funds it has decided to provide for these 550 people every year to ensure that they remain in the state administration. Therefore, these units of local self-government, so the county and large cities will receive these funds and there is no problem. As for all computers, tables, chairs, etc., they of course continue to work in the same places and continue on the same computers, on the same work. But if the counties write to us that they don't want it, if the big cities don't want it, then they've changed their attitude. But it never was. And look today when you, if you have received and if you have met Mrs Adlesic spoke about the comments of the Association of Cities. In no single sentence did the City Association say that they would wish they didn't want to have it with them. Therefore, it is simply their request and we respected that request. There were talks about it and I think it is necessary to say that there is one rule and one regulation that should be passed or that should at least be shown to you before the law in the second reading is decided on the law in the second reading, and this is about the Regulation on simple objects that need nothing. It is also a regulation on the facilities for which the State, of interest to the State and for which the State will issue local and construction permits. Therefore, we will do and implement it, regardless of how long the Government can't bring it until the law is passed, we will apply it to that law. As regards the acceleration of the procedure, it is definitely an acceleration present, because if nothing else needs to be asked for double consent and those that have been requested so far. As far as the commission is concerned, it's a rational use of land. And I'm asking you to understand that until today, there was catastral urbanization in some of these locations, which means the kind of plots that they were because nothing else could be done on these, certain things were drawn on them. Today, we can do much better to organize that space. And I'm saying I can't, I really can't talk about all the details right now, but believe me, we, these are the main things, the main remarks that were, but we'll certainly take care of it. And just one thing to say. There's our Constitution. Our Constitution has made it clear that spatial planning if no protected areas are excluded is the responsibility of local self-government units. Therefore, we cannot limit certain rights and determine what individual units of local self-government will build on. The fact is, there are people like that. But since all this is going on, all the plans are going to a public debate, I think people have to participate in a public debate because that's the most important thing. And say what they think about it. But a lot has been done in spatial planning and I believe that our citizens and people themselves have realized how important this is and that they are increasingly involved in the whole process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88861	Thank you very much. Mrs. Chichin-Shain's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88862	Well, here's a little something. As for the deadlines that Mrs. Minister spoke about in 2002 and that the deadlines for drawing up spatial plans were lifted, the Minister knows well that when she introduced the deadlines and even under the threat of disbanding the County Councils, that the deadlines were still not respected and that we had at least run over a year. Unfortunately, you know how complex it is. And as for breaking the Constitution, if now we're just... It means we've been in violation of the Constitution so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88863	Correction Mr. Kavljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88864	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Madam Minister says cities and municipalities will receive funds next year. That'll be true, now it's incorrect. And it will be true when it is written in law and when it is a commitment to the government and when the government has to allocate funds in the budget for these counties and cities. It's no different. Now it's incorrect, and it might be in your next proposal exactly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-05-25-0.u88865	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Voting on agendas at 13 o'clock. Let's move on, Proposal for a law on spatial planning and construction, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 685. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning and Construction is adopted. Second, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please vote, vote. The result? It determines he's 85, i.e. This conclusion was unanimously adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm closing the session. On Wednesday at 9:30 we begin the debate with the 9th item of the agenda, the National Work Protection Day Declaration. Then, 13, 14, and still points as follows. Thank you very much. And I wish you a pleasant holiday.
