ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85620	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning, everyone. We continue the session with the 1st item of the agenda that was skipped yesterday – 1. Proposal for a Law on the Information Security System, first reading of P.Z. No. 619 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply in the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Finance and Information and Media, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Snježana Bagic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85621	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me briefly explain what is fundamentally proposed by the Proposal for a Law on the Information Security System, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to now adopt as a proposal in the first reading. In fact, the proposal for this Law is one thing for me to think of as a gradual and systematic rounding of the legislative regulation of the Republic of Croatia in the area of security, including information security. Last year, the government of the Republic of Croatia passed a new Security Service System Act. In the first reading of the previous month at the previous meeting of the Assembly, the first proposal was adopted and supported as a draft proposal in the first reading of the draft Proposal for a Code of Privacy of Information and this Law which is now proposed to be adopted as well as a draft proposal for the Privacy of Information Act is proposed to be adopted in the first row because it is really necessary to amend the rules which, according to its content, are obsolete and inappropriate concepts of the protection of the confidentiality of data and security services, i.e. information security simply because what is the law, the basic Data Protection Act was adopted in '96. and in this very intense area these regulations no longer meet the modern concepts of security and security checks. The adoption of this Act as a special law indicates that instead of one law, it is now proposed to adopt two special laws and that because special attention is now directed to two segments of the secrecy of data. Therefore, the Data Securitisation Act, which is supported in the first reading at last month's session, has been established and proposed to establish the concept and principles of classified and unclassified data. Therefore, the very definition of the concept of classified data, their degree and distinction from unclassified data and the basic principles regarding access to such data. This Act, the Proposal for a Law on an Information Security System, as opposed to the Data Securitisation Act, provides for more detail on the protection, protection and secrecy itself and the restriction of the use of such data in the day-to-day business. In fact, the Law on the Information Security System as a newspaper in our legal order does indeed fully regulate the information security system of the Republic of Croatia as an essential part of the national security system, but also a modern information society as a whole. Therefore, this Law fully defines all elements of the system, their interrelationships, the way and direction of individual and joint functioning and the competence of supervision. If we are to talk about segments and what makes the information security system this Act elaborates on the measures, standards and competences of the body through the division of 5 internationally accepted security areas of information security in the national administration. It is shared in the area of security verification, political security, data security, information system security and security of external cooperation and industrial security. Therefore, the law represents an essential and necessary framework for meeting and achieving these 5 standards, but what is important is, for example, this Law, which is detailed... and the development of sublegislative acts to ensure the full application of this Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am aware that during the debate, there were also objections, objections and objections that too much is regulated by sublegal regulations. However, this Law, as a law which, by its own means of ensuring the implementation of information security, is a law which, in its final content, is an implementing law and should offer principles for that implementation, cannot specify in detail all rules for the conduct of bodies which are competent and prescribed by the authority for the insurance and application of this Act. It is really necessary to do so through specific implementing regulations and therefore this Law pays special attention to the relationship between them, the hierarchy of these regulations, their content, the harmonisation of their content in order not to reach each other... and the lack of individual regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to say that this approach is actually recognized because of precisely the variable... areas and in a number of other international institutions, i.e. other countries, because one relationship is indeed taken into account between the generals according to specific rules, both functionally and organisationally according to technical regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, this ensures a lasting acceptance of the general principles on the one hand and, on the other hand, a minor dependence on those implementing rules, i.e. those general rules, I apologize to the technological and organisational changes of some... which are indeed common and inevitable in this dynamic society and which is proposed to regulate these implementing rules, sublaws which are in their content, the basic content of defining this Law and where it is proposed, and which shows in fact the complexity and sophistication of these sublaws as well as the technical regulations because, in the dynamics of the adoption of the rules, this whole is proposed to be rounded over a period of 18 months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Krobni prescribing is the national information security policy adopted by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this national policy should provide guidelines for content, information security measures to be implemented in the bodies responsible and prescribed by this Act for the implementation of information security. In addition to the 13 standards and principles of information security, the definition of the implementing rules to ensure its application is clearly defined by this law and by the bodies, the central information security bodies, their coordination and their mutual relationship, and their powers to propose and adopt regulations. This proposal sets out the Office of the National Security Council as a central national information security body which is also in international law... Member States shall, in fact, represent a national, authorised, safety authority responsible for coordinating all activities related to the application of the measures and the adoption of information security standards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to the Office of the National Security Council, it is important to specify and mention the powers and powers of the Information Security Institute, which is the central national authority responsible for the field of technical information security, therefore for the technical aspect of this problem. In addition to these two, the most important bodies seem to me, certainly to be mentioned the body that needs to be removed and will be responsible for handling security computer incidents in the Republic of Croatia. These are bodies that exist in all countries and which are rightly responsible for eliminating such possible incidents. And their role is extremely important precisely in this modern time and information when the flow of information is mainly taking place through modern means of communication, such as the Internet and other communication information tools. In Croatia, this is proposed by the establishment of the National CERT. I know you usually object to using foreign expressions. However, CERT is an international standard already recognised in the Republic of Croatia and is the competent central state body to eliminate such computer incidents. Finally, this bill pays particular attention to the removal of any possibility and to the control of this in the event of a possible breach of security in the authorities of the state administration and in the public sector. I note that this does not seem to be the proposal of the law in relation to the private sector where these measures should be promoted, encouraged in order to prevent and protect the economy, through these bodies themselves. However, the obligation and duty of the state is to fully remove the measure when it comes to state administration authorities. Therefore, this bill determines that the Central Office for E. Croatia is responsible for the development of the Information System of the Management Board. And with the education and academic sector for jobs being the competent Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. And finally, the segment of this law without which its effective application cannot be ensured is to ensure adequate surveillance of information security. This draft law proposes that supervision be proposed in two conceptually different ways, starting with information security requirements, the characteristics of the powers of the body designated by this law to implement certain measures and standards provided for in this law. Thus, this proposal for a law on the implementation of security tasks in the authorities of the state administration determines the competent authorities of our security intelligence agencies in accordance with their competences and the civil and military component, which should ensure the prescribed application of the measures and standards of information security in the authorities of the state administration. As regards the authorities themselves, they should also identify and set up appropriate information security coordinators that may be in only one body, depending on its size, needs and security or designated for several bodies. In order to determine these coordinators, the leaders of those bodies are authorised. And the way they should be set up, which security checks should be passed and which will be their powers are proposed to be more detailedly prescribed by the special regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, starting with these five elements of information security and with the adoption of the law already on the security-intelligence system, we hope soon to see the Privacy Act through the adoption of this law. And soon there will be also the Security Verification Act in the procedure, because neither the Data Securitisation Act nor this law regulates how security checks will be carried out, with regard to those persons who will have access to classified information. The Government of the Republic of Croatia assesses and believes that Croatia will establish a legal framework that enables the establishment of standards, their implementation and effective implementation of security measures in order to achieve, on the one hand, the necessary and necessary protection of national interests and information security in the Republic of Croatia on the one hand, and on the other hand to balance this with the necessary and in this segment of the area of protection of human rights and public rights to access information. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this may not be short but important to this bill of law in the first reading. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will carefully consider all remarks and suggestions that this bill along with the laws already listed would help make our security system the best possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85622	Thank you very much. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? Yeah. President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85623	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 88th session held on 20 February discussed the proposal for a law on the information security system. And after the debate, the Committee decided, most of the votes, to propose the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a law on the information security system in the text is adopted as proposed by the Government to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85624	Thank you. Do the other committees, representatives of the other committees, want? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85625	Dear Mr. Vice President! Here, allow a few words about this law relating to information security. But for the introduction, however, there may be something wider. It is obvious that security issues today become one of the most important issues of the modern world. And I'd say what might be illogical, which is our standard of life greater, the quality of life higher, security becomes somehow more and more important and the interest of the wider international community. But when we talk about information security, then we need to realize that we are talking practically about technologies that determine our way of life, behavior, communication, work, thinking on a global scale both at regional, national, almost at the level of each individual. And this impact of technology is so strong that we don't notice it very often and we're not aware that our security today is more than ever determined by high technologies at all times and in every place from the moment we use the phone to the moment we communicate with each other, when we do different financial transactions, when we function as an integral part of an organized society where technology, information technology is almost the basic infrastructure of our lives at all levels. Physical security versus the so-called. Information or logical security is something that deserves attention. Mostly when we talk about this information security today, we think more about the security of communication within network information systems, computer networks, financial transactions. We may not be aware that the infrastructure we use today from energy and all other resources is indeed managed and depends on the reliability of the security of information systems that manage and monitor such systems. It is definitely technology that today marks our reality, and it is no wonder that today we are discussing a bill like this, a law that needs and tries to regulate some basic powers, I would say first of all in an organisational way and then legal but also some other issues that deserve attention. Usually in a developed world when it comes to the proliferation or dissemination of high-tech technologies in society, legal institutions, together with the financial sector, which enables the development of these technologies, their penetration into society, etc. However, in Croatia or in countries that are not leading in terms of technology implementation, there are some additional problems that are related to language. And we need to be aware that today more than ever, it is not directly related to this law but it is important to note because those who wrote this law had huge problems with understanding or misunderstanding of original terms that still come from English, and in that sense I conducted a whole series of conversations with people who were preparing the bill and then some compromises were found. Among other things, the title has been changed. Instead of information security, the term information security system, etc., has been introduced. These are questions that certainly deserve attention. Faced with this reality, I would say the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a wise decision and in 2004, it appointed an expert group composed of relevant experts from the state and academic sectors organised by the Central State Office for E Croatia. The section began the development of a comprehensive national information security programme in the Republic of Croatia. The aim was to systematically develop the necessary measures of the legislative and institutional framework in the Republic of Croatia to support the state administration system in the Republic of Croatia and to fully comply with the standards of developed democratic countries and, in particular, with the standards of the European Union and NATO members. The National Information Security Programme in the Republic of Croatia was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after a public debate on 31 March 2005. The strategic long-term objective of building solid foundations for the development of the information society in the Republic of Croatia without which any economic priority of the Republic of Croatia will be asked in the next decade. We talked in this House about some other laws like digital signatures, etc. which are part of this security system. In particular, the short-term programme has planned a series of measures that will gradually take place within a few years with at least possible changes, that is to say, the legislative and institutional framework will lead to a modern internationalised concept of information security as the basis of its own system of national security as well as the development of society as a whole. And I think it's a good thing that those who have proposed this law were aware of the dangers of restrictions if they go into the regulation of certain details that are time-changing, which are highly dependent on the types of technologies and in this sense have decided to define that basic organisational and legal framework and all other elements should be further edited. I think it's a good and wise decision. Certainly, when we talk about information security, we must also be aware that in the implementation of these laws, the implementation, and finally and in the conclusion of a contract to all those who need to ensure a higher level of information security of the private and public sector, one of the important and key factors will be related to the knowledge of partners at all levels that understand the essence and weight of the problems to be addressed. And here, I'd like to say a few specific words now about the structure of that law which, in the organizational sense, I think is well set up. However, again, we are going back to the question of whether it is possible to effectively harmonise laws when we are discussing laws that are mutually dependent on each other in a session to discuss the Privacy Act, so I don't know the Security and Intelligence Act and then the Information Security Act. These laws are interlinked and as a consequence of perhaps insufficient consistency between these laws arises and one problem I would say in Article 4 which one of me would say of some others. So like this, let me quote it. It means Article 4: "Protecting the confidentiality of information within the security areas of information security.". So the security areas of information security and then it's listed as "physical security." So physical security isn't part of the area of information security. So, there are some problems that occur, in fact, at all, to understand and edit certain terms, to regulate them and to assign each other to what kind of law they belong. So if we're talking about physical security, then we're definitely not talking about information security. If we're talking about the security of the staff check, then we're probably not talking about information security. That's why I'd say it's not wise to define in Article 4. some things that don't belong to this bill. What is undeniably good is already pointed out is the definition of hierarchical structure when it comes to the jurisdiction of certain national authorities over the information security system. In this regard, it is clear in Article 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's okay. What certainly deserves special attention, since it is about new legislative frameworks, new technologies that are impossible to understand exclusively in a legal context without understanding and some others I would say technical terms or technical content of restrictions and so on. In this regard not only education but also education continuously but I do not know where, in which institutions, because such institutions the Republic of Croatia does not have a necessary security and intelligence system. Furthermore, an important institution that deserves attention as a structure but certainly its achievements will depend on the quality of implementation of all these legal provisions as well as the choice of people who will be able or will not be able to implement enough of what is intended to be done within the framework of an institution called the Information System Security Institute. The Information System Security Institute should be a central body for the technical areas of information security to be responsible for the security of information systems, bodies and legal persons, security accreditation of information systems, the management of cryptomaticals, coordination, prevention and resolution of security issues of computer networks, and I think it is good when such an important institution is profiled in the right way to make it clear that it is responsible for the technical areas of information security. It's nominal. Of course, what it will look like in reality will depend on the structure of people who will be able to carry out all these tasks. The institution that deserves the same attention within the framework of the proposal for an information security law refers to the national "CERT". Jobs to prevent problems related to the security of computer networks in the Republic of Croatia will be carried out by the National Body for the Prevention of Response to Computer Threats "CERT", which is a separate design unit in Croatia's academic research network. And I think it's very good. I think it is good that such institutions that have technical character, technical responsibility, professional responsibility, I would say even professional, scientific responsibility to position them within the frameworks of the academic community because in the end these institutions must carry out and take over that part of the responsibility that belongs to them and not exclusively live in some isolated academic world without any connection with reality or real problems. And in that sense, I think it's this, and that's also a good part of this law. As CERT writes, it is responsible for preventing and coordinating actions related to security computer incidents in the Republic of Croatia as well as those related to foreign countries and organisations. The CERT is further authorised to coordinate the work of similar bodies that work to prevent and eliminate problems related to the security of computer networks in the Republic of Croatia and determine the rules and methods of joint work. CERT is working with the Institute for the Security of Information Systems in the framework of the security of information systems and legal persons, and I think these are the most powerful elements of this bill. Oversight, it can certainly be debated, but it is very important that there is an institution that is in hierarchical terms responsible for supervision and I think it is acceptable but in any case again and this component of supervision will depend on professionalism, expertise and education that is being achieved but is a question of where... Because all these changes in some way required very rapid and changes at the level of the academic community, at the level of individual universities and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in any case, the HDZ Club will support this bill as good in the right direction along with these notes that we have indicated that the security areas of information security must be consistent. That physical security cannot and must not be mixed there, the security of staff verification and a common consistent view of all relevant laws in this area is absolutely necessary and important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85626	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85627	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the issue of security is information, today in the world, one of the most important issues can be raised with complete certainty and perhaps in the history of mankind, energy and enormous capacities of work may not be used for any activity such as the collection, processing, collection, and protection of information. That fact itself speaks of the importance of information security. Of course the information's fine. And as such, as such, it also requires a proper way not only to say consumption but to use and control and control. Of course, when we talk about risks, when we talk about incidents, then this is also one area, which is almost contaminated, almost in general incidents that occur equally in computer systems, and of course, Croatia is no exception, as is no exception to anything else. And of course, maybe it wouldn't be good if it were an exception. Computer break-ins, computer networks, the spread of malignant programs have all almost become completely common things in the modern world. And just some of the examples that support the importance of how important it is, how important it really is to build an integrated information security system in the country. Our existing legal solutions that have been detained in two laws, the Data Protection Act and the Security Services Act. Of course, they tried, within their own needs, to partially reduce and reduce risks, to create a system that should primarily function but clearly comply with those needs that these laws had. Of course, we can say with full certainty that our practice so far has shown, and there is the part that cannot fully agree with fellow Cosic, who said that people as a risk factor should not be listed in this law. Well, of course they're the generators of all the incidents that happen that those in nature and character things create problems and cause damage to the system. Because, of course, all of our experiences tell us exactly that the people to whom the information was available, who were in charge of processing information, transfer of information or protection of information were often the reason why the information ended up in a place where they were not allowed to finish, why they were used for those purposes that were not intended. At the same time, what has been in Croatia in the past tens of years or in the last 15 years almost explicitly the information has not been used where it should have been used. Namely, all information, especially those that have common rated protected information, serves those who decide at a given time to have a set of information based on which I will be able to make the right decision at any time. This, of course, is always reflected most strongly on the executive systems of government. And it is precisely this system of traffic between users of information in Croatia that has not and has not been at the necessary level today based on which, as is the case in countries of developed democracy and developed systems of using information the case. Therefore, it would simply, in addition to these good and necessary proposals, set a position of information security in full legal terms, to determine the place and role of all those who will be in that information security system, to position this information security as proposed under the National Security Council Office. It would be good for this bill to try to come up with a way in which those who should use that knowledge through information should actually use it. Namely, the current traffic of the information system, especially when it comes to services, especially when it comes to services and users of such information, regardless of how information has technically been made to those who are users of the information, was not often on the basis of the quality of the information that was held. So one broader education to say so in terms of understanding how to use information and what is the purpose of creating an integrated information system is something that is crucial to our society. And, of course, the only institutionalisation of these relationships, not individual understanding, can contribute to building a system in which information will be good, not necessarily a tool for a possible incident. Because it happened again to us that good information was actually a tool to create an incident, either through media placement, whether through abuse for political purposes, whether through the release of that information that it used to someone else, whether it was a military, security or an economic aspect. In any case, this topic is not up to the end and in the most qualitative way embedded in our system of functioning, not political, not economic, not security. And then often the most important topic that has been discussed when it comes to the scale of this is incidents, excesssses, giving away and, in any case, a completely negative approach that has blacked out actually the basic function of the property as good as information. And at first, I said that total humanity did not put as much effort into any activity as the preparation, collection, processing and protection of information as good. Therefore, a great responsibility arises, which is imposed not only through this bill in the first reading that can, of course, be corrected, especially in these legal frameworks, but institutional frameworks for the purpose of being able to act seriously. Furthermore, to try to refer to the bill itself. The proposal for a law is dominated by national security, i.e. the essence is simply described in Article 1(2). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So it appears 21 times in 21 articles as many as there are. Therefore, the question is, of course, whether this is an operationalisation of the long-term objective of the established national information security programme of the Republic of Croatia, which is the development of an information society without which any economic perspective of the Republic of Croatia will be questionable over the next decade. So I am trying very clearly now to say what I was saying in the introduction, in which way in the law itself we must strengthen the main meaning of this law, which is the development of the information society as a prerequisite for the economic perspective of the Republic of Croatia and that is actually a key word. Of course, that would be done and accomplished in such a way, technical and business security is necessary. Technical security is a security of transmission and content protection against unauthorised access and is ensured by hardware and software solutions. This is an area of cooperation of security experts of telecommunications service providers and safety engineers in organisations of course and companies and institutions of telecommunications service users. We believe that this technical security must be particularly highlighted and very precisely defined in the very positions of this law. Second, business security. Business security is about ensuring the credibility of the content and the unequivocal identification of the sender of the public and private key system. This is provided by electronic signature. Business security is a prerequisite for a wider application of electronic business. The electronic signature is certified by authorised certificate issuers, which is for us in the Republic of Croatia for now only FINA. It shall have the equipment and issue certificates for electronic signatures at very acceptable prices. There is a law on electronic signature in the Republic of Croatia which is in line with the European Union's recommendations. If there's anything else that needs to be coordinated, then there's still a need to take care of it. It can be said that there are legal and technical conditions at national level for the wider application of electronic business. The main problem is that the economy knows little about the potential of electronic business, very little and very little is the low application of precisely this business, which is a prerequisite for valorising all of this. There are also studies carried out on orders and at the request of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Office for Electronic Croatia, and the public administration does not provide services that would benefit the economy and citizenship, and that is, in fact, our current picture of the situation which is negative and, of course, the law itself will not be able to fix it significantly. And it is in this sense that business processes in the state administration and public services should be redesigned. We at the HSS Club think it is welcome to welcome this bill on the information security system. I think that between one and the other readings can be significantly improved by this non-minorisation of application or by means of valorising information goods, that institutional positions which are slightly missing and hidden within the Office of the National Security Council could be strengthened and that a quality law could be reached, which would, above all, open up for the economy those perspectives that it should open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85628	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85629	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. I know it's not easy for you because it's obvious that this bill wasn't written by the Ministry of Justice but by the Intelligence Community, it's visible from the numbering of pages, and again we point out to the government that it's obviously necessary to have a person, a minister, a vice president of the Government who will be in charge of the Intelligence Community, for this whole system. So they have a numberation as visible, one, it has 24 total pages and then they're going to number 1/1, 1/2 etc. How's it going? But let's go back to these legal texts. I'm sorry, I listened to my colleague Markov and my colleague, Cosic, but they did not say what was most important, which I will say on behalf of the Croatian Party. The main message of the proposal of the Information Security System Act is that, at best, I stress the best case scenario, in April 2009, we will legally establish a new information security system. So at best in April 2009, we will have legal frameworks, i.e. legal frameworks for the establishment of information security. If that were the case, look at the transitional and final provisions that tell you all about who needs to pass sublegal regulations and within which time you will see simply that. First, the government needs to adopt a regulation on security measures within 9 months. Then the regulations on the operations of the central state authorities of information security, is due for that part of 18 months and then has a further regulation on the tasks of the information security coordinators, and the deadline for adoption is 18 months from the date of entry into force of this law. Now let's move on, sublegal regulations that tell you about when the other rules will be passed, and you'll get it right away. See Articles 19 and 20, respectively. The Office for the Security of the Information System shall adopt the Regulation referred to in Article 9 within 15 months. Now the bodies that Mr. Markov was talking about, they're going to be in 18 months and then the rest of the bodies within 15 plus 3 plus this part says with a six-month deadline. So the sublaw will be established if we stick to deadlines, and we know that for the government and the ministries all deadlines are instructive. They are always instructive, we have most of the rules where the government, or the competent ministries, is found to be the legal person, as the relevant regulations are given here, but they do not bring it and these deadlines are instructive. So, on the condition that the Government, the competent authorities that are designed for the adoption of sublaws, adhere to the deadlines in the law, we will have a legally established system, legally speaking, not organisationally, but only legally. We'll have it established in April 2009, but I say on the best of terms. So what are we talking about today? Something that's going to be like that in April 2009 and we're talking here about how important it is to step up, how we've done something huge here. What the hell did we do to my people? What we did today to pass this Law so that we could cut those deadlines, let it be in April, not in April, but in March 2009. We didn't do anything. So let's talk openly now if we want to have an effective information security system how and how we're going to do it. In this way, we will not do it safely, given that this Law is, what has only been established? They are given, first and foremost, in Article 2 prescribed by the literature concerning the intelligence community and this part of the security. It is only stated in Article 5 that the Office of the National Security Council is a central state body, which is fine. It is also stated in Article 8 that the Institute for the Security of Information Systems is also a central state body and it has been said that the tasks of preventing and removing problems related to computer security... in the Republic of Croatia, the national body for the prevention and response to computer threats, in the following text... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that's all that's been said in this Law and then it's passed on to the transitional and final provisions in which it's said when the regulations will be passed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, you could have cut it short, said that Croatia needs the Information Security Act, but what will be decided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all the competent authorities, security services, the National Security Council Office and all legal persons nominated here. Therefore, this is a very bad message for both the Croatian Parliament and Croatian citizens as well as how we intend to establish a system of information security. Now it's a particularly interesting thing, and I don't know if you've read it, and we know what the text of the Privacy Policy was, but the situation could be even worse. So according to the Privacy Policy that we've done the first reading, it's visible that anything and anything can be put in, classified as classified, but we're moving on. This is also predicted, it says, it is also important to note that data that are not classified can have great importance, so they are also subject to an appropriate set of measures and standards that serve to preserve the integrity and availability of data. So, now everything can be like that prevented public and information availability. First, we have meaning in the Data Securitisation Act that both municipalities and cities and counties can determine that some information as such is to be classified with a certain degree of public. And now they're moving on here, and they're saying something can be important, so as such it should be kept no matter what someone may have forgotten to classify it. Therefore, these are quite bad messages in terms of what everyone in Croatia wants. Everyone in Croatia wants us to have an intelligence community that will professionally and professionally do our job, that we have an intelligence community that will act according to legal regulations and that, on the other hand, we have, on the third hand, that Croatian citizens have full security that they will not be abused by secret services in terms of human rights violations or some other rights and civil freedoms, but unfortunately it is necessary to do so, unfortunately we do not have this either. Now let's go to the part that the law should actually regulate. That's what you say in this. Says the new law should regulate 5 security areas for the development of measures and standards of information security, security checks on persons, physical security, data security, security of the information system and security of external cooperation, industrial security. And what's out of these five areas, what's regulated in law? Nothing. The law doesn't regulate any of these areas, and if we're going to pass a law where it will be regulated then let's work out those areas. We're running a security check on the staff. We had a case of the Adriatic against the Adriatic about that council on civil society, on the development of civil society. We know how it was done, but the same situation was with sublegal regulations that it was said the government would bring it, the government didn't bring it, so we saw what happened. It was even a warning from the European Commission about this problem. So shall we regulate the security check? If we want to regulate then determine which circle of persons as such may be that will pass the security check and that will pass a partial security check, who will pass the full security check and how, how, how, in which way, Croatian citizens who compete for either the state administration or elsewhere will have to know that, as if they are competing for such a job that security checks will be carried out on them. So let's lay down the rules of the game in advance, lay down clear rules of the game and thus prevent all these cases as such which occurred and who threw bad light at the work of security services although in this case I say as many other security services were not at all guilty, but had to act according to the orders of the competent authorities. Now we're talking about that. Now who's in charge of looking for security clearance and for who? Can an office ask for security clearance for a council appointed by the Government? He can't. Because that's what the government needs to look for or the person in charge of that part of the government. We can't be here as Assembly MPs, say, looking for security clearance for workers to renew court in Osijek, right? And do the workers who will renew the court in Osijek have to pass the security check? They have to. And why do they have to pass? Because the courts' buildings are defined as security buildings for Croatia, and even for the area of defence if other regulations are seen. And who's to look for? The Department of Justice needs to be sought. And when it was public this story, the Department of Justice was silent, and it was authorized to seek such a situation. Who's authorized to search for security checks for workers working, renovate, say, foreign ministry buildings? We had European integration and foreign affairs, we had this situation. The foreign ministry. And we saw the situation that people were walking there, the construction site was open. And everyone wonders how possible it was, which was the case and the companies probably "Conning" who gave the job to someone else. And it is known that the rules of the game are clear. You get a job in advance, you send a circle of workers in there to work. It's like that everywhere in the world. It's not inventing hot water. That's how you do it. You get a list and you run a first check through that punishment database, whether he's being punished, not punished, whether he's being conducted or not? Now depending on where such a worker, who does this can come into possession or access everything, then you'll see, but there's... whether or not a depth check will be carried out either in part, or a complete check will be carried out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's set the rules of the game. We know how to do it. And let's not sell hot water here. And it's especially selling hot water. I don't know why you even needed it. He says the point of this bill is to establish the hierarchy of information security regulations. Interesting! Or to say, and then they don't know how to spell it. Which is worse. First, national policy, then go to regulations, regulations, internal control and enforcement acts. And where are your laws? So don't tell us you're doing anything. You're not editing anything. If you want to fix it, get it done like the HSP club says, and then we'll have a legal regulation that will answer all this stuff. We'll have a security information system and we'll also help the security intelligence community. And we will help Croatian citizens. But let's regulate it, people! And let's not allow this variant, to say the law is passed, and everything else will be arranged by the government, the ministries, the central bodies, the legal person. And when at best within 24 months, but from the day of the law. So where does that lead?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85630	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS club, Ms. Dorotea Pesic Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85631	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Your Honor, Your Honor, The IDS Club cannot support this Proposal for a Law on an Information Security System for a number of reasons. And if, in some segments, until the second reading, radically doesn't change. The problems that could arise from this bill are enormous, so it cannot be easily approached by the adoption of this law. Here, I'll list only three segments that are badly solved in this law, and that's privacy protection. Whoever does the applications is already predisposed to assign a job and the criminal provisions for abuse are not resolved. This law will apply to a wide range of people, i.e. national authorities, to the bodies of units of local self-government and to legal persons with public authority. So, to all those who use classified and unclassified data, and to legal and physical persons who make access or treat classified and unclassified data. Article 3 of this proposal states that it is necessary to adopt a national information security policy in the Republic of Croatia as a basic information security document, as it should set out "basic objectives, principles and attainment of the application of the information security necessary for the systematic creation and implementation of the measures and standards of the security areas of information security". That is why it should have been logical for us to first adopt a national information security policy and then parallelly pass laws. The Information Security Act, the Data Securitisation Act and the Act on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia. So it would be good if all three of these laws were discussed together at our session, so that a complete picture of this extremely important area would be taken, and to avoid any overlaps or repetitions. But also to bring the deadlines envisaged for the adoption of certain sublegal acts into line. Here's an example. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following The Act on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia shall be governed by the delineation, way of handling and forming of the Office of the National Security Council, which is then then, in most parts, prescribed in this proposal of the law. This is what you have in Article 5. Article 13 to 17 is also amended as follows: The question arises, could these repetitions have been avoided, that is, by one law, to fully define the detour and powers of those bodies? And in others, further develop certain areas such as the implementation of information security or the surveillance of information security? And not to solve important issues like that. the restriction of the use of data in public authorities and legal persons through sublegal acts. This proposal provides for the adoption of a whole series of very complex sublaws, or rules of information security, of which some should be adopted within 18 months of the adoption of the law. That's for example. The implementing rules and the rules on the supervision of information security measures and standards, while the Regulation on the standards of security checks on staff, the Regulation on standards of physical security and data security, which regulates standards of confidentiality protection and restrictions on the use of classified and non-classified data in public authorities and legal persons established by the Office of the National Security Council, should be adopted within 15 months of the date of entry into force of this law. So, we're going to have at least twice as many sublegal acts as we have articles in the law itself. I don't think that's good. And so far, we've had experience that we could never get the sublaws to see it because it's some kind of secret. The rules are usually hidden. So, first of all, we needed to adopt a national strategy and then the Security Services Act, the Data Securitisation Act, information security and security clearance. Because now all other laws will be passed and a national strategy eventually. So these will all bring themselves a strategy to work on. I think there's been a bit of a disturbance in the order. Furthermore, although the entire law mentions NATO and the European Union and their standards and how it is necessary for us to comply with their gains and practices, both the European Union and NATO do not bear the label P.Z.E. which further raises doubts as to why this law was passed in this way that we were proposed. We also believe in IDS that this is in some way political law, at least in some parts. Why am I saying that? Because the whole business of implementing this law, of dropping, of delegations to local self-government will be done by two state-owned companies and we certainly cannot avoid saying that these companies in Croatia are run by people from HDZ. Well, then it seems to me that it's the mere care and security of business to these companies and those people who are in the leading positions of these companies. And to be exact, it's APIS and FINA. FINA we know that she lost a lot of jobs because banks took over business as far as companies and natural persons or craftsmen and APIS is a state-owned company that was founded together with the city of Zagreb. There are 250 employees, it is a former Institute of Information Activity, which now maintains applications for ministries but the city of Zagreb does not use it as co-founder because they are quite expensive. The only thing that is very important in our opinion is that the law does not resolve the right to the privacy of the data that is deeply affecting us in respect of human rights. It is known that this can be solved in various ways and very simple codes, passwords or paswords, as has already been resolved in some European Union countries, which, for example, vote in elections in Estonia and still guarantee their privacy in the UK as well. And I don't think they're doing well, or they're not working out any criminal provisions for abuse in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85632	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85633	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It is difficult here now with confidence to say what has seduced the promoter, whether the force and splendor of his political talent or whether he is completely ignorant of the subject he is processing. Only this law should be rewritten. The law is full of misunderstandings. Instead of introducing order into the areas to which he relates, he creates confusion and confusion. The first misunderstanding appears already in the name of the law. The information system is any communication, computer or other electronic system in which data are processed, stored or transmitted in such a way as to be available and usable to authorised users with the right, the applicant says. So instead of calling his proposal clearly and logically the Security of Information Systems Act because this is what he calls it the Information Security System Act. This begins to create a confusion of concepts that follow this proposal from beginning to end. It is obvious that this is some kind of translation, we do not know which text from any language or language, and that whoever has accepted or knows the material to which the text refers or knows the language in which he translates exactly Croatian, so his undertaking has failed completely. The concepts that are expressed do not have their dawns or its clear meaning, so it is quite unclear what the Proposer means at all. So the first definition says information security is a set of measures and standards. Security in general can thus be the state of a system rather than a set of measures, such as the health condition of the organism and the treatment of a set of measures to be taken to restore impaired health. With such misdetermined concepts where vaguely vague explanations are given a galatias that actually means nothing. It is unclear and the scope of the law, i.e. It's not quite clear who the law applies to. Namely, in the introductory section where the applicant presents an assessment of the situation and its motive for legislator, it is said that the national programme covered the planning of information security measures for different pillars of government, executive, legislative and judicial, and for different levels of government, state and local, and then especially for public institutions, citizenship and the private sector. In this way, the content and scope of the measures are significantly different and appropriate to the needs of each of these segments of society. That is how it should be. However, the law itself states that this law applies to state bodies, bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and to legal persons with public authority using classified and unclassified data in their work. On the side which the text is illiterate, which the Proposer does not know that in Croatian the verb is used exclusively in its return form. So, you use someone or something and you don't use someone or something. It's less important here. But expanding the scope of the law, expanding its application to everything and any other opposite of the national programme is indeed unacceptable. Because you will admit that the same level of protection of the information system cannot be applied to the government, the Ministry of Defence, internal and external affairs, to the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces and to the City of Koprivnica for example. So the law is completely misstructured. He'd have to have special and clearly divided heads. Protection of information security in the executive authorities. Protection of information security in the bodies of the legislative authority. Protection of information security in the judicial authorities. In public institutions. In the private sector and in the public. And then in each of those heads should be clearly and precisely indicated. Content and scope of measures to achieve and maintain information security. These measures must, on the one hand, be effective in order to achieve the objective and, on the other hand, must not go beyond the limits of human rights and freedom when it comes to the protection of information security in the public or the civil right to access information when it comes to bodies with public authority. There's no such division in the law. It's all put in one pot, so cooking gets a thick and cloudy soup, antipathetic and indigestionable. We don't know anything about any of the ingredients. At first, the concepts are defined which should not be defined at all because they are quite clear. Like the concept of an information system. But there is no definition anywhere, for example, of an information security coordinator that appears suddenly in Article 16 as a kind of "deus ex mahea". What this concept should mean and what powers these commissioners of the information era remain completely unclear. All we know is that, based on their opinion, the Central Information Security Authority will be able to initiate the process of determining responsibility for the failures. And who's the central body? No less than the Office of the National Security Council. It's a body part of the intelligence system in this country. So the secret service intelligence device will determine the responsibility of the citizens of this country if some information security coordinator we don't know anything about writes an unfavourable report. And what bodies will these coordinators operate in? Where are they going to conduct surveillance? In all those in whom the force of this law does not act intelligence services directly. And where do they act directly? That is what the article 16 says. The competent security intelligence agencies shall carry out surveillance in the authorities of the state administration. So not only in the ministries, but also in different state offices and institutions. In the Employment Office, for example, at the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments or the Hydrometeorological Institute of Croatia. But also in state offices by county and offices of the City of Zagreb, which has the position of the county. They'll be able to run S.O.A. agents all over the computers as they will and send their reports to the National Security Council office which will then take the process of determining responsibility for the failures. It's scary. This is absolutely inadmissible. This law is dangerous. It will not lead to the security of information systems but to the full uncertainty of citizens who will be exposed to the control of intelligence agencies and the famous information security coordinators who are nothing more than their own agents because they also send their reports to the National Security Council Office. I'm not going to speculate here whether the motionor's intention is bad or whether this bill is simply a result of a complete misrepresentation in the subject, but either one way or another, it must not be allowed to go into another reading. It would be completely irresponsible. That the proposer himself is not sure about the quality of the legislative proposal shows the fact that he was already in the Parliament's agenda and in May of last year. But he was withdrawn from the procedure. Unfortunately, though, his work has failed. Does Croatia need the Security of Information Systems Act? You should. The possibility of entering the information systems of state bodies as well as information systems used daily by citizens poses a threat not only to the state but also to citizens. These systems need to be protected. There's no doubt about it. But it just can't be done like this. Therefore, we will not get to the quality of the legal text by fixing this to another reading. Simply because he's so misstructured, so cloudy and vague and in that darkness that he produces so dangerous that it's simply impossible to fix. We reject him in the name of reason, in the name of the protection of human rights and freedom, in the name of responsibility to the state. On behalf of the call we accepted to make when we were elected representatives of the citizens of this country. The SDP club will do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85634	Thank you. At 10 and 47, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. It is the turn of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85635	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's the last time we discussed a part of this law, and it was part one. That's what's said. And that's what it says in the explanation. It's a code of confidentiality. When I started my debate, then you gentlemen from HDZ made noises and noises to keep me from discussing it. I hope you'll allow me to say something about this proposal today. I agree completely with what counterpart Pero and colleague, counterpart Kovacevic and colleague Stazic said and all those remarks they made in any case stand. The HNS Club won't support this law, this bill and this first reading, and we're not going to do that at all in the second reading because we believe that this law together with the Data Secrecy Act is actually the Censorship Act. We've allowed a law on the confidentiality of information to an ordinary clerk, any one of us in this beautiful country to declare a particular information secret, and you know that all data enters some databases that are part of some information system and one click on a house that writes "secretly", "very secret", or I don't know how we marked it all, which means that it must never appear anywhere. And we've made it possible for any clerk in this country. So gentlemen, this, along with that, represents the Censorship Act in any case. And as far as this proposal is concerned, I'd like to start with that story of Europe and NATO. In the very explanation that is said to be much bigger than the law itself, because you probably wanted to impress us with all the things that you stated in the explanation and make us some little pens that will raise their hands for something that has such a big and so strong explanation supported by NATO and the EU, and you simply thought that we would just raise our hand for it just because you stated it in an explanation. If it's already harmonizing with some kind of Europe, why doesn't the bill have the "E"? It doesn't have a mark because it has nothing to do with any harmony because by content, and the content of my colleagues before me, it's not worth speaking to me at all because it doesn't really exist, except for those few things that are being introduced new. There's nothing about content itself. Because everything will be regulated by regulations and regulations. And now, as far as our regulations and regulations are concerned, I would like to read to you the representative question of fellow Dragutin Lesar, who has asked the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. He asked only three things to be delivered to him, which is what we sublawed acts have brought from December 22, 2003 to this day. So what government has adopted within the legal deadline, which it has passed outside the legal deadline and has not adopted in spite of the legally envisaged deadline? And now comes the response of our Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. And she says, the report, as she says, was unable to collect all the necessary data for the delivery of answers to the issue. We to be honest with you when we saw it we wanted to give this answer to the art, because we thought someone was out of their minds. If we're making any proposals, regulations, regulations, and I don't know what the government doesn't know how much it's supposed to bring. Who's crazy about that? Then why did we even sign it up? And this whole law that today, the bill of law that was to be passed today, comes down to the rule. And we don't even know how many rules we should have brought in the past. Well, that's tragic, that's really tragic. And now you would go back to that story I repeat whenever e-Croatia appears here in the Parliament, which is the question of the identification number for every citizen in Croatia. We've got him. His name is JMBG. We probably don't like it because it starts with "J." Let's change it. Let's name it anyway. Let's call him, I don't know, I.D., anything. Let's put "H" forward, here we go, HMBG. But gentlemen, it's the only thing the IT guys recognize. It is the only thing that works in bases throughout Croatia. We're now Mr. Shucker boasting about some sort of tax number nonsense. Well, we all have our numbers. Will corruption solve the introduction of a tax number? If corruption is to be resolved, it could also be solved by JMBG. And let's not talk about eHealth introducing its number. The e-Justice will enter its number. The e-grant will enter her number. The E-tax administration will have their number. And what are we going to have in the end? Nothing, gentlemen. We'll have numbers that never, as Mr. Kirin says, will not work by horizontal or vertical. And we'll never be able to match it, and we'll never know what we have in systems, in information systems. And with a proposal like this, the HNS club can't support this. We support all those suggestions that were before us, and that's the kind of nonsense we don't let go to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85636	Thank you. The word has a respected representative on behalf of the HSLS club, Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85637	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, after all this has been said on behalf of the parliamentary clubs, the legislator of this law would have to think hard about what one text of the law would offer for another reading. Because obviously there really is a whole series of texts, or parts of the texts that certainly cause legitimate skeptics with us. Of course, I don't think we should talk too much about general places that the paradigm has changed, that not only long ago we don't live in Gutenberg's galaxy, that we don't live in the Klunocolor galaxy anymore, that really... The new paradigm, the new scientific evolution and that this information society becomes part of our reality and that it is not easy to find the right answers and solutions that offer this new society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These challenges are too great. And certainly one way is to achieve one elemental degree of security in order to preserve our own integrity. When it started talking about information law there 30 years ago in America, then I remember that many people didn't know what they were talking about. Here's exactly what opened up there 30 years ago as a problem, and it's setting us up as a problem. And certainly that information security is a fundamental assumption of the development of modern society. It seems to us that the government is already late with the bill, because a large number of state bodies, labour agencies and local and regional self-governments are using information technologies that are relatively unprotected and as such are the source of possible abuses. And finally, I will have to admit that at the beginning of the text on page 2 that the largest number of state administration bodies in the Republic of Croatia do not have human resources, I do not know what this human resources means, that there should be little, however, that this bureaucratic language, which is so very inaccurate, is nevertheless adapted to the norms of the modern Croatian literary language, so the necessary knowledge for the adoption of such measures and standards, which it has not yet adopted, or are protection measures... through an external commercial service purchased on the market without clear criteria of market requirements as well as questionable appropriateness to state needs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In conclusion, it can be said that the problem exists on two levels. First I say again these insufficient personnel resources. And the necessary knowledge of the concept of security measures for data protection in most bodies. The second is that even with defined data protection standards, a large number of bodies do not have professional human resources for the instrumentation, maintenance and improvement of protective measures. And it's an accurate finding, and from that finding, it actually needs to be started. It is obvious again that this unfortunate education and unfortunate selection and staffing that I say most often comes down to the principles of similarity and not expertise then we do not want to determine exactly these problems with a lack of professional and human resources for the instrumentation of maintenance or promotion of anything, let alone between... and safeguard measures. And certainly that... that it is a security problem for the Republic of Croatia, but not only that but it says it is a very expensive approach in which various organisational and market-based security solutions are realised and financed in the bodies of the state administration. [[You don't understand.]] It is this non-standardisation and this administration that always depends on individuals who are not sufficiently educated that determine what technical and organisational security solutions will be used in individual bodies. In such a situation, the Republic of Croatia cannot establish and ensure minimum information security requirements at national level, which is again a fundamental requirement and both NATO and the European Union on current integration processes. And I'm also saying from that fact we should start. So the diagnosis is set, it's cruelly accurate and dramatically accurate, and now let's see if what is offered is that drug that should change this diagnosed condition for the better, is it good? What hope is at first glance is in the draft of this law is also in a negative context in the opinion of the HSLS Club is the length of some deadlines. So, for example. it shall be mentioned for 18 months for the adoption of the implementing rules of information security measures and standards. 18 months it's a year and a half, and as soon as it's 18 it's at least at least another two. Means for the adoption of those regulations and sublegal acts that are relatively long. Also, this law can have a significant impact on the integration of personal data and their manipulation. You don't have days to actually read in the paper that someone has managed to break into the system of these business cards, telephones and whatnot. Right now, I'm going to say that the new challenges, that is, the new state of affairs, are also creating these assumptions for the manipulation of these possibilities provided by this digital technology. Then this proposal is most irrefutable to the fact, and this is a necessary investment in knowledge and education because it is once again shown that it is necessary to have highly qualified, professional and paid staff who can implement these laws at a professional level. Furthermore, Article 19 of this proposal provides that the Government, with the consent of the President of the Republic, will propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a national information security policy again within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. As regards that Article 3 of this proposal, the law provides that the national information security policy in the Republic of Croatia is a document setting out the basic objectives, principles and achievement of the application of information security in the Republic of Croatia which is necessary for the systematic creation and implementation of measures and standards of information security in state administration bodies. It seems to us that we have turned things around, that it is going, that it would be more logical to first adopt a national information security policy for the Republic of Croatia, and only then go into law making. I'd like to see an argument as to why the first law, and only then the national information security policy. When adopting this law, it should be mandatory to make sure that it is specific in the sense that information and data should not have access so that the application of the Law on the right to access information does not lead to our bodies no longer knowing what they can and cannot give. We're like a society and very sensitized on exactly this, we love... society, democratic society. [[You don't understand.]] Transparency is kind of declared in the politics of each of our parties, political parties, but the same thing when we come into a situation when this transparency in some way should be demonstrated then there really is a rasmomon being created here, and then it's about arbitration, about someone's arbitration depends on what's going to be secret and what's not going to be secret. They say that, always for the success of a society, these arbitral places are more dangerous, even than autocratic ones. Especially autocratic when some things are known in advance, and this in arbitral rules of the game really change every time. You never know how to put the rules of the game that you can't play hand and then somewhere in the 15th minute someone else decides you can play hand, then you know what happens. In our view, too, it is necessary to pass a law as soon as possible, a new law on the confidentiality of data which has passed first reading in the Parliament, which would again, in a modern and internationally accepted way, treat the concepts of classified and unclassified data in state bodies and as well as the principles of access to classified information, because the existing law creates a really bad perception of access to the confidentiality of data and understanding of what is private, which is secret from information in state bodies. I'm just saying we have too many of these negative cases and I think it's really necessary to make an extra effort to make this one, this poor perception of citizens as soon as possible. And I'm saying right now, that's one of the reasons the HSLS club is going to insist on, that first it should adopt a national information security policy for the Republic of Croatia and that would then actually be a starting point, a theoretical starting point for giving basic guidelines for those laws. So I'm saying the fact that these laws need, I'm not from... We say better than nothing. [[You don't understand.]] Many remarks from those concerning Semantics, Syntaxes, seemingly this way may seem so banal but usually come from a Semantic confusion... then actually produce texts that also carry additional confusion and I say would be inclined to do so to the other one, this first reading, we received this text from knowledge, and for the second reading indeed one radical change and a completely different one, redefine what this Information Security System Act wants to achieve, as I say there is a consensus in this Parliament, because in the end we are responsible people exactly and for the functioning of this important segment of our society, but I am afraid that this proposal cannot achieve this so that other reading must be actually or a special new text and it would be to say as soon as possible that we are going first with this national information security policy and only then to adopt laws which this national policy would be a platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85638	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85639	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking of this proposal for a Law on the Information Security System, perhaps we should look at the question of the security of today’s man. In the time of the ever-increasing protection of man of many international documents on the security of man, of his human rights, man of the modern age, man of the 21st century is a complete uncertainty and that is something that worries. The man of the modern world is the man Franc K. A man who feels insecure almost from school benches, and then when he enters the world of work on his own. Speaking here on behalf of the HDZ Club, it seems to me that my colleague has pointed out that we need to understand that this bill is not about the safety of citizens, it's not about the safety of people, it's about information security. However, if our policy comes from man and serves man then they have this information to serve exactly man and are precisely for the sake of some of his well-being, that is, the well-being of all of us together and that is the only way we can understand the true essence of the law, that is, the real intensity of the law that should be expressed in each of his special norms, and on its own in general in his spirit. But is that what it is? In the history of man, mankind has never yet been involved in any such significant amount of work in the production, supply, processing, transmission and dissemination of information. Why is that? Because of that and the simple reason anyone has information has power. One of our distinguished experts who has years of experience in designing information security is talking about exactly what foundations, what content should have such a bill. It should primarily define information security, set criteria, or what makes this information system, which is essentially information, which is the definition of information, what information is used, or what is the subject of processing, how to protect them, then threats to the system, and also attacks against the system as well as those who collect information. Who? What? For whom, or for what purpose? Likewise and for what purpose and for what reasons is such an information system attacked? Then develop, i.e. predict, and prevent the vulnerability of the system, develop which methods of attack and find an adequate response and protection techniques. The technical measures to protect the control of the procedure are the very same expert on data incriminating, detecting, preventing attacks, the role of users, self-protection of the system itself, but also on the care of both the great awareness of those people and about the loyalty of the system. Is that the case, however, and does such a bill serve? It is written in one meta language, absolutely incomprehensible either to read an article, an item, or to read at random, there you do not even know what this is about. No one alive knows what this is about, but that's exactly why he was made. Therefore, such a meta language is absolutely unacceptable for any law, let alone for this law which is very sensitive, which, the content should be sensitive, and especially in its own because I'm proposing to establish here in an assessment of the state that the secrecy of the data, respectively... in public, one bad perception of concepts of privacy and secrecy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Each bill, or any subsequent law, should serve the addressees to be clear, applicable to those who apply it and to whom it applies. Is that possible with this law? Not at all. Planning, introduction and control of the information system is a complicated task that requires primarily specialised knowledge, an appropriate organisation and a thoughtful investment of both material resources and human resources. The information system is not one single project or implementation of a technological solution, but primarily one continuous process of very pronounced dynamics, has one dynamic nature which, through risk analysis, implements protective measures and one continuous control, it is in itself important to establish an effective and balanced protection system. Speaking of the control mechanism system, we have become aware that it is a very weak control mechanism and also in the recently adopted Security Intelligence System Act. These services, as well as the legislative arrangement, draws attention to the public when someone complains about the work of intelligence. There is no doubt that this is a very powerful service that employs over a thousand people and spends about 3 hundreds of millions of tax money annually. How are they organized? What's the employment system? How loyal are these people to the system itself? And who goes in there? Nobody knows that alive. We know when individual affairs with service work break out, but we have all witnessed here and our public service from time to time, it comes out illegally to spies in the lives of citizens and it becomes a problem in public from time to time. They have had several successful searches for today, they are no longer fugitives, but everything else is covered in secret, or known in public only in such scandals. This untouchable service that is here and there someone burdens with their complaints that are then triggered by this weak mechanism of control, but what does it show? He shows as well as in the case of a journalist Helena Puglis, who has been harassed by spies for hours, where control, what has been shown to control? That there was an irregularity, but there was no illegality, and that's how that story ended, and that's how all the stories about the illegal work of spies end. So why is this case even interesting? Of course, the services can't work without the public's cooperation, but what will the departments do with the journalist? The journalist works in public, and the services need to work in secret by nature. What are these jobs for? So, in order for the dirty work to be achieved over the eve, the public reads. But they came across a brave woman, a brave journalist who told them no. It won't work. It won't work for me to have an anonymous performance you're putting together, and then you're lyphing on the papers. That's not what I'm gonna do. Of course the consequences for that woman are terrible. But the control mechanism said there was no illegality. And so the question arises, so what is the protection of human rights in this law? How are you gonna... about some kind of protection, when no one alive understands what the role is and what the goal is? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How do you get information? What's the information? What is something that must be of interest to the ministry? Last year, the Security Intelligence System Act was passed. And how many months have the services been working under the Security Regulation, which, by doing so, has become invalid or out of force, by law enforcement, by law enforcement? Therefore, this bill should also address this issue, which would be of interest to people, or to the whole service, on the work or on the gathering and such information that is necessary in relation to the relationship and even to a specific person, as well as to a particular employment. But as long as we don't have this well-developed and powerful mechanism that's not only being established by law but also by one political will. And that means that politics should remove its hands, remove its influence...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85640	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85641	And I don't... This service will be as one returns without a bottom where it will entangle its personnel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This bill of law must therefore not be missed in the second reading...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85642	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85643	It's about giving the law school a look at how laws can't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85644	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85645	Mr. President! My colleagues Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, I'm sure you're always talking about the law from your party's point of view and your political orientation, so you're also talking about this law. So you said, something that's not true. That the services are messing around illegally on the inside of individuals. I guess you do. So you mentioned Helena Puljiz, so if the services did not accept what they wanted, our colleagues from the Croatian Parliament, I am sorry that they are not here today, Vesna Škare-Ozbolt, Milanka Opačić and Đurđa Adlešić, to draw attention to themselves and to become something in this country and in this people. To become victims, perhaps in this election year, as you have seen the services do not work illegally but work legally. This law needs specialized knowledge and good experts. This does not mean that unless the SDP people are in the security services and there are them, there are no people and no political ones, who are not committed to political parties. There must be services in the Croatian state, I hope, and I am sure they work under the law of the Republic of Croatia, not by the will of individuals and party similarities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85646	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85647	Thank you, Mr. President! Well, we had a chance to hear a pretty ugly insinuation that actually politics dictates almost secret services. Based on these accusations of the type Milanka Opačić, which showed some kind of paper, which allegedly consisted of secret services, which says that the lover buys her pumpkins, gold, I don't know what else, apartments and the like. And the main argument was, that's not true, because no one saw me awake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85648	Thank you. The words have a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85649	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Normally, everyone in Croatia wants an information security system. Now, to get to the right information security system what is needed? A legal framework should be set, meaning a legal framework. Thereafter, it is necessary to have an organisational framework and people who will implement it. What is the message of this law? The message of this law is that we will say, at best, on condition that the competent authorities, and here I mean the Government, the Ministry, means the central government bodies and the other bodies that are nominated by this law and which have to pass sublegal regulations. It means that at best we could have a legal or legislative framework somewhere in two years and that means, at this time, in April 2009. But there is an important condition for the Government and the central authorities of the state administration to lay down sublegal regulations for which they are determined by transitional and final provisions. But we know what the situation is. The situation is such that the government and the ministries consider it when the Croatian Parliament obliges them by law to pass the regulations under the law, they consider it an instructive deadline. And what happens if such a law is passed, with such content, and if we want to have a system of which the law basically has nothing because everything is left to sublegal regulations? And now, those who are authorized to adopt or be obliged to adopt sublegal regulations, if they don't, then we'll be back to square one. We won't have the first part to establish the information system. And the first part is the creation of a legal framework. And now someone's been talking here, saying, you don't know what this law wants? You know what you want with this law. Look out! This law has been done by people who know what they want. They will, it's normal everywhere. This law has been done by the intelligence community, it's all over the world, so that the intelligence community is going after everything that can be questionable, which can cause a public debate to be left to sublegal regulations, regulations, regulations or others. Why? Because those teams are mainly governed by different rules that have a certain mark and a certain kind of secrecy can put in place all those measures that they think they need in their work without the public knowing about it and that it will go without a lot of noise. You know the situation, for example, I don't have to talk about our situation outside. I'll just tell you outside that the intelligence community is unpopular in terms of data surveillance and everything else, they're not going to put it into the basic law, they're going to put into the Road Safety Act, various other laws. So, to put the powers they need to have, which if they put into their basic law they know that they would cause debate and opposition, they put into a law that seems to have nothing to do with their fundamental purpose, but in the end, it is true that this is the point. That's what you do in Germany, that's what you do in the UK, that's what you do in America and France, and everywhere you do in this work. But here it must be spoken because it is evident that certain colleagues and colleagues have no knowledge of this area. Namely, how, in what way, what is being protected? Well, the data is being protected, that's for sure. And as they protect themselves depends on what kind of data is, is this information very secret, secret, confidential or limited? That's what you need to understand. There are general measures and there are special measures. There are measures that mean data security, there are measures for physical safety and everything else. So, you don't have to go to that very theory or the variant that you don't know anything about. It is known but the problem is that the fundamental things about these five security areas that the law is talking about should be given a final answer means information security, which is a security check of staff, physical security, data security, security of the information system and security of external cooperation, or industrial security. Croatia in this part of industrial security has no obvious problems for now, but there is a constant war in this area of the United States, Japan, Russia, Germany, Great Britain, there is your strongest war. At this point in the world, it is precisely in this area of industrial security and data access in terms of economic matters, industrial and all other things. Now, we don't regulate any of these major areas by this law, but we don't regulate anything. We're just giving a list, a term, and we're giving it a need to be regulated. But the point is the law, and the point is that Croatian citizens gain security and trust in Croatia's security intelligence system, that there is also protection of Croatian citizens from abuse of security services, that they do not abuse their powers in terms of human rights violations, civil rights, freedoms and everything else. It's all over the world that matters to this... Put this on, too, if you want this, it's actually not ready for first reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We should be conducting a preliminary debate on this law today. So, the previous debate, but it would be far better if this debate were essentially united, that we were talking together because these laws are connected, means this proposal for a law on the IT system and the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data because these two laws are tied up and give all the answers. And that's why I plead in this section if the system is to be created legally and legislative then we need to regulate legally how, how security checks will be carried out, which means physical security, which one can be applied to and which circle of persons can come, which means data security and protection. So these are general and special measures. Which means the security of the information system as a whole, that people don't get the wrong impression that the services will abuse their powers so they'll enter the data via the Internet into their own, they can't do that, but they should put it into law because if you don't put it into speculation law they'll stand as such and possible abuses as we've had cases and examples. So don't say you've done anything with this. You decided that we should have the Information Security Act or the Information Security System. When it will be, it will be at best in one two years, provided that all competent authorities bring in regulations in due time. But we have no answers to two other important questions, when organisational conditions will come and when the part of what Mr Kramarić said will be achieved is human resources. So, the people who are trained to work in this system and who, as such, will not be abused, who will be pure professionals. Let us be aware that a significant shift has been made in the work of the intelligence community in relation to the period that has been but we must not allow this reform to be done until about 2010 or 2011, because this will unfortunately stretch 10th, 11th, since the dynamics of the adoption of sublegal regulations are foreseen. So, let's make a law that will be a law, let's regulate these five areas by establishing what and how it can be done to prevent abuses, reduce the deadlines for the adoption of sublaws, but let's look at these two laws at the same time, so this law and the law on the protection of secrecy because this part of the old thing, they were afraid to put the Privacy Act on, so they put this part together so that the data can also say that they are not classified can have great importance. It's a very dangerous thing. It is also of great importance to consider and apply a set of measures and standards to protect or prevent the public from obtaining such data. Therefore, we cannot support in this form, but we normally support the intention of Croatia finally obtaining an information security system, to get everything it needs to get. And now that it's obvious that this law has worked as a intelligence community, but in the meantime they've forgotten the words of the Security Services Act, they mention that old 2002 law, and in the meantime that part has been amended, we've passed a new law, there's a lot of inadequacies. Therefore, do what needs to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85650	Thank you. Replicated representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85651	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a fellow Pero I want to give you on my example because I'm an informer and on my example I show what IT security means because many of us don't understand what it is. I've been designing programs for general medicine, dentists and psychologists. In that data, I had 30 general medical offices. Gentlemen, that's 52,000 patients. For those 52,000 patients, I could have abused their diagnosis and I don't know what else. And also in dentists, not to mention I.D. tests in psychologists because they're all the data I had in the databases. And that data should be protected and kept in any case. But not by law like this, not by such a sloppy bill. And not to mention that there are no connections between different databases. So that horizontal doesn't work because we can't E Justice, E Health, E Tax Administration, we can't do anything but one single number at a time that defines each of us and that's a JMBG to recognize. And why don't you gentlemen return what the IT needs? Let's give them a tool to identify each and every one of us as a person.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85652	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85653	Well, I agree with my colleague Kapralevich. That's exactly the part that should be worked out by law, but also in terms of all that being imported, but not being abused. Or let's say this part of what you've been doing, I'm going to tell you a better example of what information security means? The United States thought they had effective information security. After the attack on Twins and the Pentagon, their system went down completely. But they fell so hard they couldn't work anymore. Therefore, such matters should also be taken into account when it comes to information security. It's your best example of hacking into the Pentagon and everything. When the press asked me if it was possible for us? It's not. Why? Because we don't have a system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85654	Thank you. It's over. State Secretary Snježana Bagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85655	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. This debate shows and I will not reveal anything new when I say that it is a syntagma: "Knowledge is power" now increasingly confirms that information is power. And we, who are not IT experts, are increasingly feeling trapped in modern communication technologies and information because we are increasingly dependent on these modern aids and information that are being stored and collated in this way. And therefore, the aspects of this security, information security and legitimately are in particular the focus of interest. Dear Representative Kovacevic spoke of the so-called industrial espionage. Large companies invest a great deal of resources to protect or come naturally in an unfair way to some desired information. However, in this occasion and in this bill, this vision is clearly necessary and desirable for the protection of information security, not protected. This law has that segment of tightness. It refers to information security in state authorities or state administration bodies and units of local and regional self-government bodies. It also refers to the area of protection of information systems in the information system protection segment. I also note that, in the debate, there has been a lot of connection with the complete intelligence and security system of the Republic of Croatia again. So with the Security Intelligence System Act. With the Privacy Policy. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to link it to the law on the right to access information. And with this bill of law. What is the data and what can then and in what way can be determined, what degree of confidentiality of information is proposed by the Data Securitisation Act. And in this place, allow me to process it would be easier for us all, I agree, and I, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to discuss these laws at the same time. However, due to the legitimate interest of the public and also the representatives of this High House, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was the Law on the secrecy of data which precisely protected these data and association, the role of civil society was not properly applied and withdrawn from the procedure and the law was after a certain time after further discussion was returned to the procedure. I get the circumstances at the last session of the Parliament after the discussion of the Privacy Act this Law has not been discussed. It might be better and easier to talk to everyone today that there was, that there was time and opportunity to find these two texts of the law at the same time in the procedure. But this Law, the Law on the Information Security System, in the hierarchy of these laws, certainly all laws have the same importance, but in the hierarchy and relationship of these laws there is one narrow reach. It regulates information security or refers to the protection of what is in the information systems. The information system shall also be considered as such by this Act and shall prescribe any communication and computerised and other electronic system in which data are processed, stored or transmitted in such a way as to be available and usable to authorised users. So this law regulates the area of information security. So computer systems, applications we use in the authorities of the state administration and units of local administration and self-government, and we determine the way in which some authorized persons can use them at all. In what ways can they appear to be available, and in particular how will we protect these data? So if we look at the content and reach of this Law, it is according to its content in the first, according to its basic reach and content, technical law. That is why, therefore, some of us can only speak for themselves as a lawyer and is not entirely understood because of the technical language. Unfortunately, the fact is, and we need those laws... to make it more understandable for us who are not in this regard professional that the information language is otherwise not a language that is not easy to understand because it is a language of profession, of technology on the one hand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, aliens rule in this area. We all need to fight it and we will strive to propose the final text of this foreigner's law to remove it, but unfortunately in regular communication, such a language is recognizable and there are some international standards that are at that level in the area... technology and then in the area of security recognize. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law defines the rules of financial security, their relationship, their bodies, their relationship and their supervision. The truth is, and there have been a lot of complaints that a lot of regulation is regulated under the regulations. It is precisely because this law cannot, as a technical law, regulate it in detail, and that is, the matter of sublegal regulations that will be adapted in view of the progress of technology. And the necessity is actually the need to pass such a number of sublegal regulations. The objection was that the law would not be represented with all its regulations... the whole within 18 months because this law proposes that all the sublegal acts, laid down by law be adopted within that time limit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For that we face one of our expectations and realities. On the one hand, we often, in laws, unreally propose the adoption of some sublaws, one month, two months, and then justifiably, parliamentary deputies call us that these sublaws have not been passed within the prescribed time limit. That's right. Now we're talking about another situation here to judge, that these deadlines are too long. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will certainly consider once again whether there is a possibility that these deadlines or proposed deadlines may be shortened? But the fact is that it might be better to be realistic then have a system that will be designed to the end and I'm talking about a system that is technically demanding where it takes time to adapt the system, to educate experts in these bodies listed in this law. So the question is actually whether it's better to be realistic and wait a year and a half than to cut deadlines and then go to the top of the quality and integrity of the system or to expose ourselves to the danger of not respecting the deadlines that we have set ourselves in the law. Thank you. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will respect all objections and proposals certainly seek to make this text of the law, together with other laws that surround the security-intelligence system as best as possible and to enable us to develop the system and security on the one hand. And on the other hand, allow what we have said so far in the repeated text of the Law, the protection of human rights and privacy appropriate to democratic societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85656	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85657	We're going to the vote. 1. Proposal for a law on an information security system, first reading. I give the vote the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on an information security system is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 74 for, 5 abstentions and 14 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85658	We're moving on to the next eight. Proposal for a Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on an EU nuclear security assistance programme in Croatia for 2005, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 634 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the law. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate of Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was carried out by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, Spatial Regulation and Environmental Protection and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Secretary of State Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85659	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The aim of the law is to confirm a contract on funding, which will essentially be financed with the assistance of the European Commission's two projects, border control of nuclear and other radioactive materials totaling 255,000 euros, of which 64 euros are financing from the Croatian budget and 191 thousand European Commission. The aim of this project is to increase the ability of Croatian officials at the border to detect smuggled radioactive materials. Another project to be financed from the amount covered by this Funding Agreement is the installation of the RODOS system in the Republic of Croatia. The RODOS system is essentially a system of exchanges of information between countries in order to allow for an effective reaction in the event of nuclear hazard. The total value of the project is 600,000 euros, out of which the European Commission 450, while the Croatian budget is 150,000 euros. The co-financing funds are provided in the budget and I therefore propose that this Agreement be confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85660	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85661	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will support this Agreement, support these two projects and will certainly support the entire programme. But I'd like to go from the HNS club, since I see a relatively small number of registered clubs and individuals, so the overall debate probably won't last more than 20 minutes, which we don't think is good, and that this point certainly deserves a lot more attention. In the European Union, for the past few years, much attention has been paid to this particular issue, namely the problem of nuclear security, i.e. the problem of the management of radioactive waste. That'll be our problem from tomorrow. And our dependence on nuclear energy for decades is going to get bigger, bigger and bigger. It's without further ado. Now, what we want to warn you is that both this Parliament and our working bodies, as well as the National Institute of Nuclear Safety and the State Department for radiation protection, have to work closer and closer and more closely with both the profession and the scientists. It must be one networked whole, because the dangers are even if we sign some international agreements of danger that we are actually going off on a relatively large scale. I'll be specific. In fact, a large part of the projects currently being carried out in France, Great Britain, the Scandinavian countries, which are funded by the European Union and concerning, above all, the management of radioactive waste will be completed, at least that is how it is imagined by the end of 2009. Following the analysis of the results, a whole new EU strategy will follow in this area. It will follow, of course, the new obligations of the member states, as well as the new obligations of Croatia. I'm going to say that I was a little surprised by the way the media transferred information seven and eight days ago that France had inserted into a European document and nuclear energy as renewable energy. That was quite shocking, but no explanation was given, no explanation. And I'll tell you what's going on and what's waiting for us if we don't know clearly, if we don't know where France is pushing those documents clearly. France is a nuclear force, even a power. France has all the technology to recycle nuclear waste and resuscitate it. So I'm going to tell you that France is already recycling 95% of nuclear waste today and using it again to produce electricity. It has a few dozen times less waste today thanks to these new technologies. And of course if it enters as a European strategy and as a European commitment and tomorrow our commitment then we know how much we will be financially and technologically dependent on those big countries that will only be able to do so. I will further inform this esteemed House that it is going towards very strict standards of depositing and storing radioactive waste. The waste that has a short half-life will likely have to be deposited in concrete warehouses according to very strict criteria, such warehouses may also be high ground. France already has such warehouses for about 15 to 20 years in advance, provided by very strict standards that it proposes to the European Union to be applied in all other Member States. A special area is therefore nuclear waste from power plants. I repeat, 90% of that can be recycled in technologically trained systems. But what about the part that really represents the waste? There are even stricter standards that are proposed. It is proposed to apply one underground waste technology over the next few years. Subways in areas of geologically very stable soil. Examples of a specific soil, i.e. the terrain in Australia and the Sahara, are listed. But Australia will by no means accept clear global waste, but we will have to make sure that we find such areas alone in Europe. France located it in a zone north of Paris. That's where the test tunnels were made. You get into the rocks, you make places to dump such a waste. The waste was wrapped with a hunter, and all the water was drawn from the clay with a special method. Even the French can't do that, but in Britain, that part of the process is done to enable good isolation, because I have to tell you that part of the waste that comes out of the power plant like that definitive waste has a half-life of several thousand and several hundred thousand years and even a million years. And so we know how long this radioactive material will be underground and how many years it will endanger future generations. And therefore, perhaps another detail. We talked about NATO today, and yesterday we did it. NATO officially deposits radioactive waste you know where? In the sea. Exactly certain locations in the sea. They calculated that it was the cheapest, calculated that it would have to dilute that radioactive waste badly. Which is all true, but the question is, how long can we go like that? It's an official NATO policy. We therefore order a very cautious policy from the HNS club in this area. We suggest that certain personnel and from these institutions of state, but clearly also from scientific institutions are instructed to professionally improve in these institutions where these research is done. We suggest that selectively specific scientific projects be financed so that we can monitor that technology and what is waiting for us tomorrow. We suggest that we be very careful about investment so that in two years we don't have to go with new investments, according to new standards that will definitely come after 2009, and I say what is definitely waiting for us in this area seems to be a major technological dependence on France, Germany, Great Britain and other nuclear forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85662	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85663	Dear Mr. Vice President, here are a few words about the bill. I'd say it's very simple, nothing here is controversial, it's very simple and clear when it comes to the bill. We are practically taking over a high-tech product, a product that is the result of the knowledge of a number of European institutions that enables the rise of the level of nuclear security in Europe as a whole, and therefore I certainly believe that this bill will have the full support of all parliamentary representatives present on Friday's vote. However, we return one step back to those discussions we had just before, which show some important characteristics of Croatia's ability as a society, which is the relationship between law and language technology and I think it is a very serious topic that deserves and broader debates beyond these frameworks. We see that technologies go forward, laws adapt, cough, and I would say language all very hard to follow and it deserves special attention because this mutual relationship in some way and determines the ability of our economic growth, the speed of adoption of high technologies, I will not say inclusion because obviously this project is also an example where only developed countries only hold for themselves the scientific capacities produced by products and then commercialised by them I would say in the common interest and through the funds of European institutions, European funds. But not to be obliged, let us remain briefly on what is an integral part of this law, financing, strengthening the nuclear security system in the European Union is one of the priorities of European security policy, and this is more than obvious. Accordingly, special attention is given to strengthening the capacity of all Member States in terms of nuclear threat, nuclear security, but at the same time through this project which may not be seen at first sight, the scientific capacity of European institutions, leading European research centres, is being strengthened in order to have more and more importance at global level in terms of not only nuclear safety but also the development of new nuclear technologies, especially given the constraints of the energy sector, where nuclear technology in the future will in the long run be more and more important. Project number one, project "Rodos" user of this project is the State Nuclear Security Institute, and it is a system of decision-making, i.e. real-time decision-making in the case of possible nuclear disasters, and it is a project that provides in some way an integrated system of support for decision-making in order to save the population, infrastructure and everything else if a leg is definitely the highest level of threat to the civilian population. The project includes the collection and verification of radiological data, the evaluation of possible radiological situation, the simulation of possible protection measures by estimating different effects, and in this sense this project is very complex, it includes atmosphere models, terrain models. Every single one I would say to an institution or a nuclear facility that could be a source of threats and in terms of complexity is more than obvious that it was one complex demanding project of a number of European scientific institutions and as such it should also be recognised. It is a pleasure that the results of this project in the coming period, in line with the funding proposed through this bill, will also be able to be used by the State Nuclear Security Office. Therefore, the State Nuclear Security Institute will be in a position to apply such a high-tech security product and to adapt it as it is said to casutise the environment in which the Republic of Croatia is located. Not only 3D models of the relief field, but probably also models of population distribution, identification of all of the most sensitive parts from the demographic aspect, from the aspect of infrastructure and means water, communals, etc. And it is certain that the product in the hands of the State Nuclear Safety Office will be able to be used in future exercises. A whole series of different exercises that NATO and the European Union are planning in terms of possible nuclear incidents. Therefore, it is a good product, it is a single aid to the institutions of the Republic of Croatia that are competent and responsible for this form of security. The RODOS system usually has a national RODOS centre, a central computer. It will likely be installed at the National Nuclear Safety Institute and the State Nuclear Security Office will have one important obligation to provide training for all those who use this product through the adoption of this product so that it will certainly hope that it will not happen, exclusively through exercises, to allow the preparation for possible threats of such character. First of all, it is the State Protection and Rescue Authority, meaning further to the State Hydrometerology Institute without whose real-time data the entire system would not be operational. Therefore, this important contribution to the security system of the Republic of Croatia as a whole, I would say part of the process of integration of the Republic of Croatia into the security systems of the European Union, and this is one of the requirements, one of the standards and criteria, and I believe that the National Institute for Nuclear Security will, in accordance with its knowledge and capabilities in cooperation with other institutions of the Republic of Croatia Institute "Ruđer Boskovic", the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, working with the other authorities of the state administration, enable this product to truly be in full function, not only in the interest of the security of Croatian citizens, but in the interest of wider European common security. The second system supplied under this bill refers to mobile, portal monitors for the detection of nuclear and other radioactive material, I would also say one important product that is put to use by the State Department for radiation protection. It is more than clear to all that the proliferation of nuclear material is one of the global security threats that gives special attention and in this sense strengthens the ability of border services, border institutions to detect and prevent the proliferation of radioactive materials in time. These portable monitors will be deployed at different border stations. What is extremely important to them is this mobility because it is expensive installations and it is almost impossible to secure all the border crossings, almost two hundred of them with such installations. For this reason, mobility in cooperation, the purpose and importance of a security-intelligence system which, in a related, integrated, common, European and NATO security system may have information on which places, at which point border crossings can be risky and in this respect given the mobility of such mobile portable monitors, can also be made possible by means of a relatively limited number of such installations as a whole, raises the security limits at all border crossings. Certainly one of the particularly important areas of protection when it comes to the Republic of Croatia is connected to the Croatian coast. The control of container load is an extremely important and sensitive issue, so we hope that these first mobile portal monitors for the detection of nuclear and other radioactive material will be part of a process where border safety capabilities will increase in order to prevent the proliferation of radioactive materials. And here in this law is more than obvious nothing is disputed. Therefore, the HDZ Club will give it full support, with the expectation that this type of assistance of European institutions will certainly be fully applied effectively in the Republic of Croatia in the common interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85664	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85665	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Directors, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Framework Agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Community assistance programme was signed in March 2002 and ratified in the Croatian Parliament in June and the same year 2002. Appendix C to this Agreement sets out the objectives and description of the financed programme, which in this case is the nuclear security programme in the candidate countries of the European Union which are beneficiaries of grants, which includes and means the effectiveness of supervision, improving the management of radioactive waste and increasing the readiness outside the nuclear facility in the event of an emergency situation. Other users in this programme are from our environment, not directly, but are relatively close to Romania and Bulgaria. This proposed law confirms the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the European Union's nuclear security assistance programme in Croatia for 2005. The funds are intended for the authorities responsible for nuclear safety and for the bodies responsible for the management of radioactive waste. This agreement will finance the border control of nuclear and other radioactive materials with a mobile portal monitor. The smuggling of radioactive materials is not only a grateful topic of films and television series, but a possible reality and it is certain that certain corridors also cross the territory of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. those corridors are not immune from such phenomena. It may not all be so dramatic, it's not always just some terrorists, there are mild examples, there's an unwitting transmission of these materials, and it simply wants to prevent it. This project would increase the capacity of guard units, significantly increase national potentials given the number of border crossings. The project user is the State Office for radiation protection. Installation of the RODOS system in the Republic of Croatia, and the user is the State Nuclear Security Service enables the competent Croatian authorities involved in preparations for emergency nuclear situations to be effectively decided. The RODOS system is established by several countries in the region, so the use of the same in the Republic of Croatia would allow for a rapid exchange of data in exceptional situations. Data, the fact that the nuclear power plant "Krško" is only about 12km from Croatian territory, that Zagreb is within a 50km radius compared to the nuclear power plant "Krško" speaks enough. It speaks in favour of the need and necessity of installing such a system. What does a quick data exchange mean in an emergency situation? Or the absence of data clearly shows one already slightly forgotten example. Let's just remember the Chernobyl accident 20 years ago, the confusion that just happened to be caused by the retention of data from the country where it happened. And as far as Croatia is concerned, a distance from perhaps a thousand and more kilometers. It should also be said that just that year when Chernobyl happened or when Chernobyl happened, the alarm was on here in Zagreb. Why do I say that? Because the profession exists in Croatia, the transition of this profession exists. And not only Chernobyl, but many years before Chernobyl. It goes up to mid-50s and French nuclear tests in the Sahara. Not to mention the Hungarian nuclear power plant Pax, which is about 90 kilometers from the border with the Republic of Croatia and about 150km from the Danube, is from Vukovar. At the average Danube speed of about three kilometers an hour, if something unexpected happens, some accident has reached our border in about 30 hours and another 18 to 20 hours here, and water at Vukovar. Well, here's the thing, and for other reasons, I support the passing of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85666	Thank you. Final? I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85667	Final proposal of the Law on the validation of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the European Union's nuclear security assistance programme. I am voting on the final draft of the law. We can vote. The result? With 94 for and 3 abstentions accepted, passed the proposed Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85668	We're moving on to the next nine. Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the national PHARE programme for 2006, with a final draft law – emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.BR. 637 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in establishing the agenda we accepted the application of the emergency procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Secretary of State Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85669	Thank you very much. The aim of this law is to confirm the PHAR financing agreement for 2006. The agreement was signed on 31 January 2007 and the agreement envisions the financing of 20 projects intended for state administration bodies. And the purpose of the projects detailed and described in Appendix C to this Agreement is to support the efforts of the public administration in the process of joining the European Union. The 20 projects mentioned and their total value is 61.06m euros from the PHAR programme. On top of this, the budget will also provide funding for 7.1m euros and 52.9m kuna respectively. The co-financing funds for the implementation of these projects are secured in the 2007 budget. The same as in the 2008 and 2009 budget projections After confirming this agreement, the 20 projects mentioned will be able to proceed with the tendering process. The tender procedure for the conclusion of contracts for the execution of works and services for these projects will continue until 30 November 2008 and all projects must be completed by the end of 2009. We therefore propose that this law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85670	Thank you. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? We're going to a club debate. There's a HNS club called Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85671	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Proposer! I would first start this debate by saying that we will certainly support and support the adoption of this law in front of the Croatian People's Party club. However, I still have some things and it is not the first time that remain unknown, so I would like perhaps this opportunity to simply resolve it. In the text under Chapter II, the reasons for the adoption of the law under emergency procedure are said to be in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, to be adopted because their entry into force is a necessary prerequisite for the implementation of the projects in question to be financed. What I do not understand is that we signed the agreement on 31 January 2007, and it is called the 2006 Agreement. I mean, it's not the first time. We've had a few times already, some similar situations. But I'd like to make it perfectly clear to us once and for all how it can be signed later. So, so far nothing's been realized from that title. It's called the 2006 Agreement. It is signed on 30 January 2007, and de facto all contracts must be signed by the end, by November I think in 2008, and the completed realizations I mean by the end of 2009. First, it seems to me that the deadline for the contract is relatively long and the deadline for the realization is relatively short. So, the last of the last signatures remains until 2009. That seems to me to be a relatively short period of realization. And finally, there's a reference to this possibility of the Tempus exemption when these deadlines can be extended from 2011, and I saw it somewhere in 2010, so I'm not quite sure what that difference is? So, if we could get a little closer to us here, would you explain to the MPs what this is really about? It's just like this one along the way notice. The objectives are set for eight chapters, i.e. for eight let's say segments, sectors in which financial assistance will be provided and relate to democracy and the rule of law, to human rights, protection of minorities and parts of civil society, to economic criteria, to the internal market and trade, to the policy sector, to co-operation in the field of justice and home affairs, support programmes, economic and social cohesion. So, absolutely everything you need to support. And there are days in tables and deadlines for realization. So now each project upstairs is numbered with one of its numbers. It says 24 months, on some we see a project of support for the Roma is 36 months. So different durations and different funding. There is, of course, the funds in the euro that are withdrawn from the PHARE budget. The funds that the government or the government has provided in either its projection or the 2007 budget are not so detailed. So I can't see from this how much the government has provided in its means. They're just shown as a common item. It would be a good idea for these tables in each of the tables down here, each program says that we can combine in the budget when we get the budget, that we can compromise whether it's really in the budget and that kind of funding is secured. It's purely for one transparency of the display. However, I would give maybe a little bit of a general let's say a review of how we realize these all our programs, not specifically thinking about PHARE, of course thinking about all the other pre-accession funds, and ISPA and SAPARD, and now, practically, when we're in front of IPA, I think that's one topic that we should talk about here as little. Therefore, before the structure of the IPA fund that will replace the three pre-accession funds so far, the PHARE was the most significant form of financial and technical assistance from the European Union for candidate countries. For many years, we have been left out of this whole dictionary with non-democratic regimes, capitalism and free market. This is why the PHARE Programme funds are intended for internal political reforms such as primarily judicial reform and public administration reform and everything directly related. Two to three years ago, the use of the PHARE programme was not at the level expected, but today these funds are being used much better, at least as far as the PHARE programme is concerned. Unfortunately, the use of the SAPARD pre-accession fund is very low to this day. The Croatian farmers were offered 245 and took just over 12 million kunas from the SAPARD, just for comparison. Is bad use to blame only the rigorous criteria? I'm sure they have their part in it, too. However, the biggest blame here is on a government that has failed to properly educate the target groups quickly, efficiently and quality enough so that these groups can react and adapt their projects to these criteria. The fact that this is also said by the fact that individual groups' education began practically two months ago, i.e. before the completion of project competitions, is actually needed months just to collect documentation for some kind of running for a project, it takes a few months. These things can't actually happen. It is a criticism of the government and criticism of all those who should try to educate people and teach them how to collect as easily as possible, how to collect project documentation, what is needed for project documentation. The use of pre-accession funds is also for the successful use of the funds that will be available to Croatia when it enters the European Union. Pre-accession assistance serves to directly invest in the development priorities of Croatia and thus relieves part of the state budget. The absorption capacity of the state administration body is increasing and a positive competition is developing between the users of these programmes. The absorption capacity is one of the indicators that will be used precisely by structural funds that will be made available to us as a membership, made available to European Union membership. If we do not learn to withdraw funds from pre-accession funds today, we cannot expect to know how to withdraw these funds from the European Union's Structural Funds and tomorrow as members when we become a member of the European Union. And all investments such as the regional policy of the European Union are currently operating through these funds. In other words, if we do not learn those who need it how to use European funds, we cannot count on development in the future. How important these funds are and how much help they can show a very illustrative example of Ireland. In 15 years, the country has succeeded from a country of exceptional emigration and poverty to the position of the second richest country in the European Union and among the first dozen in the world. Today it is extremely attractive for young people and has become exactly the opposite of immigration. But let's get back to the PHARE program. As I have already mentioned, its purpose is to help reform areas such as the primary judiciary and public administration. These are also areas where Croatia has a significant helmet for European standards. In fact, every report by the European Commission coming from Brussels is particularly critical of these areas, and if we look at it in particular, it is still waiting for years for courts to get a solution to the dispute and the Republic of Croatia is the number one country in Europe by number of judges. You have to wonder what's missing in that whole picture. Also, the grossness of our bureaucracy and the fear of the government to begin to resolve this issue leads to a final conjecture that for one certified paper you must visit four counters, two offices that of course have breaks at different times and wait for all four counters and all at the time of your working time. The problem of corruption is that the Republic of Croatia will solve for a very long time, and because corruption has rooted so much in everyday life and in all the pores of society that it is simply strange for a person to get something that he already has the right to do without first paying or giving the first thing in a blue envelope. Corruption is at various levels, as well as at political level. And that's how it shows the fact that we're just bringing documents. Here, we recently brought in an anti-corruption strategy, we're creating committees. Mrs Kitarovic has established fifteen working bodies to fight corruption and so far we have managed to arrest only a few doctors with several thousand euros in bribe received. In order not to get the wrong idea, these doctors certainly need to be punished but it is not a matter, it is not possible to deal with the fact that we start peeling on doctors. If we want to do something systematic, Churchill still said, "If you want something to be done, set up committees.". This is very illustrative, and I think that many politicians in our country could remember it very often. That we will not enter the European Union until we have solved these problems suggests an example of the entry of the last two members of Romania and Bulgaria. These countries are pretty much behind us by economic indicators. However, the European Union no longer requires the entry of countries according to economic indicators. The European Union has repeatedly shown that there is money to invest in other countries. Therefore, economic factors are no longer a fundamental problem. The Union, however, wants politically stable and well - arranged states. The story of Romania goes the same way. After all the remarks received from the European Union, Romanians decided to put an end to corruption once and for all. So as justice ministers, they appointed an extremely professional woman who had previously worked in the NGO sector. And she was actually one of the protected critics of the government. Unsettled by party ties and threats, she was able to investigate and prove guilty to a large number of state officials within six months. So today you have a situation in Romanian prisons because of corruption and abuse of office, a former minister. Maybe if I were to resort to yesterday's debate, maybe we weren't doing it because our prisons were re-disciplined, as my colleague Ingrid mentioned yesterday. In a country where it is not yet clear, there were no clear fugitives or breakers of the constitutional laws of the Republic of Croatia, whether they are criminals or heroes, I do not see any bright future. But this will have to be reformed, and reforms will have to be implemented sooner or later and will not be done by the European Union. The Republic of Croatia owes these reforms not to Brussels but to Croatian citizens to live in a more modern and more well-ordered state. However, as a candidate for entry into the European Union, the Republic of Croatia has an extraordinary opportunity to obtain financial assistance from the European budget to implement these reforms. These funds are non-refundable, and even if at the end of all Croatian citizens decide not to learn in the European Union, the money does not have to be returned and we are left with regulated legislation. We have standards and reforms that we can hope for a better future. However, these grants are currently not being used as should the extent to which they could be used. For this the biggest responsibility is nevertheless borne by the government, which in the coming years would have to work seriously on the education of the users of these funds in order to be done as soon as possible and code, as did Slovenians who used ama right up to the last cent. This will make not only a significant shift in the negotiations but we will learn and function as the Member States of the European Union function financially and this is one of the most important factors in our entry into European integration. Here, with a note that we as a club would certainly support it, I'd just like to ask for a little explanation about those opening dilemmas and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85672	State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85673	So here are the various dilemmas and questions. So why is it signed and confirmed in 2007 and all other actions related to PHARE 2006 are being carried out? The explanation of this is, in fact, related to how the budget of the European Union works and how the financial perspective works, which works in a different way than our budget. In the case of the European Union, there are two types of budget as well. There's a budget on a calculation basis. In English, the so-called «commitment» base. And there's a budget that records payments to so-called. "cash" basically means that in planning such a budget then in that part of it relating to so-called "cash". The "commitment" on the basis of commitments, on the basis of commitments, plans are being made in this budget to allocate specific funds to the Union for, for example, in this case, the specific project "PHARE". For us too, 87 million were reserved for the PHARE in 2005. For PHARE 2006 this 80 million. When projects, it also means the existence of these two types of budgets means that the funds are not shut down when the year is up because this obligation, it stands on that paper and is alive until the projects are completed. And the agreement says, "The projects must be completed by 2009. "This means that in that budget, in its section relating to payments, these payments will be carried out after this tender procedure is carried out in 2007, in 2008. And then when it ends in 2009, it will be possible to level the extent to which the obligation is, that "commitment" to which it is and spent through payments. So in this one technology, budgetary technology is the reason why we are now confirming the agreement... PHARE 2006. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The previous point on nuclear security, it was even from 2005. That is why, even in their budget, there is a difference between payments and between obligations actually exist, there is a budget on two basiss. So why the long deadlines for a deal like this? Since projects are carried out after this confirmation, the implementation is carried out on the basis of the so-called so-called implementation. thresholds. Prague is a practical negotiating guide for third countries, i.e. a Commission regulation to be applied by non-member countries when they use and manage EU funds. This threshold is also applicable to our case, and that is why this regulation exists, because our legislation in the field of public procurement is not fully in line with "acqui". Prague does not apply in Member States because they have public procurement in line with "acqui". That's the first one. And why is it taking so long? Because of this same threshold, tendering for service contracts is based on a procedure prescribed at least 6 months. Competitions for contracts for the performance of works, investment works, procedures prescribed by the threshold shall be at least 9 months, at least. And then even when the "tweening" projects are done, when actually experts from a member state are engaged who are painting their practice here in Croatia, these tenders last up to 12 months. The only thing that we have a lot of discussions with the commission is, and we're a half, why are you taking so long? But it is simply prescribed by a threshold that has logic and says, "After the competition is announced it cannot be or last shorter than," I don't know, "6 weeks". So the threshold never gives maximum. And he says, "The tender must be open for a maximum of 4 weeks or 6 weeks." He says, "The tender must be open for at least 4 weeks." Then he says, "The Commission for the assessment of these project proposals cannot meet over a period of less than a month." So it immediately says between the time of the closing of the tender and the moment when the commission is meeting must last at least 4 weeks, etc. The TMPUS shall be implemented centralisedly from Brussels. So Croatia has taken over the management of the largest number of these programmes after the Ministry of Finance has been accredited to manage the European Union's funds. One of the ones that is not, which continues to be managed from Brussels, is Tempus. And that's why they're actually worth longer deadlines for him. Why are there no more detailed items of co-financing shown in this Financial Agreement? Because it's actually an agreement that binds the Commission. We commit to giving co-financing and then actually in our budget we see how the co-financing items have been allocated per year. Because then on the holders, on the heads, on the budget heads of the bearers and the users of those projects, in 2007, the current budget already shows how much funding they have provided for co-financing by individual projects. And now we've come to the question of the use of funds. It would not be longer now, but I would just say this, that the financial exploitation of the funds is measured and compared at the moment when the deadlines for the contract are completed. Just from what I've explained before. So when the deadlines for the contract are completed, when the works for the execution of goods and services are agreed, then the moment at which financial exploitation can be measured. What we can now say at this point is that for all these programmes are in terms of programming in terms of identification and project preparation, all the funds have been used. And in terms of financial exploitation, this can only be measured when the deadlines for the contract expire. SAPHARD is also particularly involved in this because this programme is intended for entrepreneurs and from SAPHARD, the costs they make on certain projects are refunded to entrepreneurs. So at this point I said I would not yet have time to bring the courts on the use of SAPHARD because the competition, the period for conducting the competition from SAPHARD, will expire in August 2008. The competition, the first competition in SAPHARD, ended in June. The SAPHARD agency credited in September. Which means that the SAPHARD agency was already at a time when it had not been accredited to launch the tender procedures. And this current exploitation where it's used and paid a little more than 12 million is actually the first round, the first time, and I think that's a very good result. Because the procedure isn't a bit easy. And soon a second round of competitions is expected. And that will be repeated so I say until August 2008. And education was, just for your information, only the ministry conducted 31 seminars with a thousand 400 participants. And the Croatian Institute for Agriculture and Advisory Service 166 seminars with 2 thousand 832 farmers. All information is on the Ministry of Agriculture's website. Questions and Answers, it is regularly updated as to how answers to questions that currently arise from life and practice are brought. But what the Ministry of Agriculture cannot do, the Ministry of Agriculture cannot write and prepare projects for farmers. Because it would be a breach of procedure, it would be an irregularity, and it could actually cause a request for funds to be recovered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85674	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85675	I would correct a misquote by the State Secretary of State regarding the usability of SAPHARD funds, i.e. the fact that she said she would be able to assess how much she had withdrawn and whether all the funds or all the possibilities were used only after the deadline of the contract, i.e. at the end of August 2008. It is not to be expected that all contracts will be signed in August, in July 2007. So now that we're following dynamics, we can see how much dynamic we're pulling those funds. I must admit that my knowledge is miserable. So now I'm talking about Saphard, I'm not talking about PHARE. So the withdrawal of funds by farmers from that pre-accession fund so far is very ineffective. Maybe in July 2008, it'll be perfect. But it is not to expect that 99% of the funds will be withdrawn in July 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85676	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85677	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's Mrs. Secretary of State who said exactly that the ministry couldn't prepare, write projects to farmers in that section. However, she said that a very good percentage of the use of SAPHARD is 12 million kuna, and she knows for a fact that it is not true. That percentage is very bad. God forbid there's hope that he'll be good and that by 2008, really here's a part of the money that's managed to get out of SAPHAARD because he's absolutely necessary for Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85678	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85679	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the National PHARE Programme. With the amendment we've submitted, it's kind of technical. It is that the text in the title of the law itself should be harmonised as set out in Article 1. So here I am praying for support in this way to be the same name in Article 1 and in the title itself. The status of candidates for full membership in the European Union since June 2004 opened up the possibility for the Republic of Croatia to use PHARE, ISPA, SAPHAARD pre-accession funds aimed at helping prepare for full membership in the European Union. Since 2005, these programmes have been replaced by the CARDS programme, with the European Union's grants, by projects contributing to the creation of an institutional and legislative framework in the accession process. The European Commission's pre-accession strategy of October 2004 created a legal basis for the approval of the Republic of Croatia programme and in July 2006. The European Commission shall decide on the approval of the national PHARE programme for 2006 approving the financing of 20 project proposals proposed by the Republic of Croatia for funding under the national PHARE programme. After the European Commission delivered the text of a financial agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which would allow the release of the European Union's financial resources of 61 million and 62 thousand euros, the negotiations of the Croatian delegation with the European Commission were conducted and the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a report on the conduct of negotiations for the conclusion of the agreement and the final version of the text on 14 December 2006. Finally, the financing agreement was signed on 31 January 2007. The aim of the Law we are discussing is to confirm this agreement as an international contract governing the framework within which projects under the national PHARE programme will be implemented for 2006. Generally, the aim of the PHARE programme is to help the Republic of Croatia implement the reforms necessary for the use of the European Union structural funds, the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund, especially when building institutions in community programmes, social cohesion and industrial restructuring. The beneficiaries of the funding agreement are the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of EU Funds, the Central State Office for E-Croatia, the Central State Office for Administration, the State Office for Intellectual Property, the Office for Associations, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Sea, tourism, transport, development, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, the Ministry of Statistics, the State Inspectorate and the Government Office for National Minorities. This agreement will address 20 projects in 8 sectoral groups or objectives related to priorities set out in the opinion of the European Commission. By means of an agreement, the Republic of Croatia will benefit from 61.0.62m euros, while the Republic of Croatia is obliged to secure 25% of the state budget for implementation. In addition, civil society organisations, i.e. end-users, are obliged to ensure 10% co-financing of individual projects. In absolute terms, this means that over 3 years, in 2007, 2008 and 2009 a total of more than 453 million kunas of grants from the European Union, which together with around 53 million kunas from the state budget and less co-financing of end-users, is the total amount available. In view of the fact that the entry into force of this Act on Confirmation of the Agreement is a prerequisite for the launch of the projects in question and that the deadlines for the implementation of the national PHARE programme are relatively short, we consider the full adoption of this Act as a matter of urgency. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this Bill proposal with one more note for that amendment to the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85680	Thank you. Finally, the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85681	Finally, we accept the proposed amendment related to the name of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85682	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85683	Final proposal of the Law on the validation of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the National PHARE programme for 2006. The amendment submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club has been accepted by the applicant. I am voting on the final draft of the law. To vote. The result? Unanimously with 92 votes for the adopted, passed proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85684	We move to the next - 10. Proposal for a Act confirming the supplementary protocol to Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949 on an additional sign of recognition (Protocol III)), with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 643 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in establishing the agenda we accepted the application of the emergency procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Secretary of State at the Department of Defense. Here you go. Mate Raboteg.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85685	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, before this esteemed House, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Supplemental Protocol to the 1949 Geneva Convention on an additional sign of recognition. Namely, the Republic of Croatia as a party to all four relevant 1949 conventions with the corresponding protocols expressed its readiness to sign and supplement, so-called the third protocol on the additional sign of recognition. From 5 to 8 December 2005, a diplomatic conference on the adoption of the supplementary protocol was held in Geneva, and its purpose was to introduce with the already existing three signs of the Red Cross, the red Crescent and the Red Lion and the Sun, which is usually very rarely used and an additional sign of recognition freed from all religious and political connotations. This additional sign overrides one observed situation in practice and allows those countries which do not use the existing feature, whether it is a half-month or a cross, which are therefore recognised by Geneva conventions, mostly because of their association with national or religious symbols, to use an additional sign that is universal and free of national and religious characteristics. So that's one square, you have it in your materials. In addition to its use for protective purposes, which are protected by medical personnel, buildings and equipment in times of war, and in war circumstances, etc., the use of this sign by national societies and their regular activities will also be regulated, so that, with its application, it will be possible to do something else. So those countries that have used some of their specific signs that have not been recognised by Geneva conventions, have installed and specific signs in this universal sign. Therefore, given that Article 7 of this Protocol, which is attached to this Act, i.e. an integral part of this Act, provides for high parties to promote the use of this sign, declare its importance, and in particular integrate it into military educational programmes in order to understand their importance and to move that importance in the Armed Forces and among the civilian population, it is the Ministry of Defence who is the holder of the implementation of this law for whose implementation the funds from the state budget are secured in the account of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and therefore we propose that the adoption of the law on the validation of this third Protocol to the 1949 Geneva Conventions be approved by an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85686	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm closing the debate. There are no reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85687	Final proposal for a law confirming the Supplemental Protocol to the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949 on an additional sign of recognition, Protocol 3. I am voting on the final draft of the law. To vote. The result? With 92 for, one abstention passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85688	We're going to the next item on the agenda. 11. Proposal for a law on the approval of the International Convention on the Prevention of Part of Nuclear Terrorism, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 644 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're moving on to a debate. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85689	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The term of terrorism has been present on the global stage for a long time and that the 21st century has brought a large newspaper into the approach and way of waging war and terrorism and has won a special place as a very important component of the unconventional war. This means that terrorists can now be sought in a wide area starting from individuals to all countries. In this regard, it is particularly important that some of the most complex weapons such as weapons of mass destruction that have served a small number of countries in the past as a deterrent means of deterrence, are intended exclusively for strategic use to become potential terrorist assets. In many ways, the possibility of nuclear terrorism is the most worrying fact. Nuclear terrorism is basically a concept that includes more opportunities that do not necessarily involve nuclear weapons. Generally nuclear terrorism is a high-tech terrorism that reduces its probability. The reasons for this are, among other things, that radioactive materials in the vast majority of cases are well-guarded, expensive, and dangerous so that it is not easy to obtain, handle, and keep them secret. In any case, a high level of technical knowledge is needed and especially for the construction of even primitive nuclear bombs. However, the level of technical knowledge in the world is constantly increasing, and access to various types of data becomes easier from day to day. In addition, a large number of high-quality experts who have worked on national programmes of countries holding nuclear weapons have lost their jobs after the end of the Cold War and become a good target for groups or countries that need their knowledge. This means that the main problem is no longer knowledge but production and large financial investments. That is why Europe, and within Europe and Croatia, remains vulnerable to possible terrorist attacks, but the anti-terrorism strategy must be based on strict compliance with international laws. For this reason, the International Convention on the Prevention of Part of Nuclear Terrorism, adopted in New York on 13 April 2005, signed by the president of the state, Mr Stjepan Mesic, on 16 September, today has been ratified by 14 countries, and signed by 115 states. And this law makes Croatia one of the countries to confirm this international convention in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. For that reason, I think it's necessary to support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85690	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85691	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the International Convention on the Prevention of Part of Nuclear Terrorism. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The result? Unanimity with 95 votes for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85692	We're going to the next item on the agenda. We skip the 12th and 13th agenda, the Food Act and the Final Proposal of the Veterinary Act, the committees have not yet set up, so it will probably be next week. We're going to the 14th point of the agenda. 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on fertilisers and soil enhancers, with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 640 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 154. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85693	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed MPs. We all know at this time of Croatian agriculture how important it is to use re-romatics, maximise profits, increase the income of our agricultural producers, and for this very reason we went to the proposal of this law to prescribe quality standards and to ensure the protection and control of these standards. The law on fertilisers and soil enhancers was passed in October 2003. This existing law has arranged the entire area of mineral and organic fertilisers and soil enhancers. The quality of fertilisers and soil enhancers, quality control, labelling of fertilisers and soil enhancers in transport and transport and monitoring of fertilisers and soil enhancers, as well as production and control were detailed. Since there were then directives at European Union level, which regulated the area of mineral fertilisers, quality, quality control and labelling, the existing law was then harmonised. However, the same year 2003, EU legislation was amended in the area. A new Regulation on mineral fertilisers has been adopted to regulate production, transport and quality. Its importance is also because it ensures free transport and uniformisation of the quality of mineral fertilisers throughout the European market. At the same time, it is open to Member States of the European Union to develop specific national requirements for mineral fertilisers which apply only to the territory of the Member State concerned, while mineral fertilisers which satisfy the conditions of the regulation and which bear a high quality standard code... may be placed on the market of all Member States without restrictions on transport and regardless of the conditions laid down by national rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For us, it is important that this change is primarily because this harmonisation is done in part of quality control. So by entering the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, these amendments to the laws allow for the control of these high standard fertilisers by our competent inspection, but also the sanctioning and application of those penalties that we have prescribed in national rules on fertilisers and soil enhancers. In addition to these changes, the compatibility of Croatian mineral fertiliser markets with the European market will be ensured, as both requirements and quality standards have been leveled. We also believe that there is a significant shift in the quality of fertilisers that will be marketable on our market, so our domestic consumers, the customers of mineral fertilisers producers, will be able to better protect themselves from the supply of special import fertilisers of inadequate quality. In line with the above, we propose to adopt the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on fertilisers and soil enhancers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85694	Thank you. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? On behalf of the Committee? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85695	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry at the 49th session held on 20 March The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on fertilisers and soil enhancers with the final draft law. In accordance with Article 87 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee held a discussion on that proposal for a law. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Following an opening statement by the Ministry's representative, the Committee unanimously supported the proposal by the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. In the debate, the Committee supported the adoption of this law because it represents a more detailed harmonisation of our legislation with European Union legislation, in which production, transport, labelling and quality of fertilisers are precisely regulated. However, attention is drawn to the need for professional definition of individual terms, which primarily refers to the term "urea" which is not mineral but organic fertiliser. In further discussion, it was indicated that, in view of the more transparent implementation of the law, regardless of the content of the sublegal act, authorised laboratories for the analysis of the quality of fertilisers and soil enhancers should be also a reference laboratory, Article 10. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on fertilisers and soil enhancers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85696	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85697	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! After the secretary of state who cited here all the reasons why this bill should be supported, I can say at first that the Croatian People's Party fully supports this law and these reasons that are mentioned here. I wouldn't want to spread the story or repeat the same thing. I would just like to say that under the current conditions, we have situations where we need to get to some soil enhancers, that we need to import some funds from the European Union in a semi-legal or even legal manner. And that we'll get at the quality of fertilisers and other means of that no choir. This will also lead to better results in fruit production, vegetables and flowers. Therefore, we fully support this bill and want it to come into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85698	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS club, distinguished representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85699	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Well, here's a few sentences about this law, so at first I want to say that the Croatian Peasant Party will support this law. That's how we discussed it on the Committee itself. But I think it is necessary here to say that it is a very important topic, that it is harmonised with EU legislation, but that it is also extremely important, so here I will try one way to say constructively to warn some problems, if it is possible to make certain changes, if that is what I would say in the interest of making the law as good as possible. According to the available data, the implementing rules relating to the law in force were not adopted but were only published in the register of mineral fertilisers. In its assessment of the situation, the applicant stated that, for this law, more principled character, and in accordance with the Directive of the European Union, which was replaced by a regulation after 2003. However, we should certainly ask here a question, why has it been waiting so long? Almost three and a half years have passed, that this law has not been passed, that is, what is the harmonisation of EU legislation in the field of mineral fertilisers? Perhaps one of our questions is good for Croatian agriculture, farmers, peasants? Is there any concern that through the extent of the permitted ingredients in mineral fertilisers and the production of certain cultures is disrupted? I'd like to say one thing in principle. Is this for the benefit of our producers or is this just one harmonisation that applies to the future being able to place artificial fertilisers produced by Croatia on the entire territory of the European Union? And will it be possible to reverse the competition against our producers? It is not appropriate to call for the conclusions of the former governments to be adopted by an urgent procedure, but rather clearly here it is a matter of EU regulation and harmonisation with the European Union. Perhaps a few very concrete remarks that could be made here, please and enter into corrections or accept as an amendment to the Government. In particular to Article 2, the wording of the wording has expanded the concept of production by referring to all fertilisers and it would be good for the applicant to change the provision of paragraph 1 of Article 1 from which this law applies only to the production of organic fertilisers. In addition, Article 4(1) introduces the concept of granular and adhesion in mineral fertilisers. Shouldn't that have been defined in the terms of the term i.e. in Article 2 of the basic law, or if those terms are not used in the basic text of the law, then use descriptive, understandable words. In paragraph 2, it is changed in a way that the minister prescribes the quality of fertilisers and soil enhancers, not as so far as the production of organic fertilisers and soil enhancers. Why no longer does the minister prescribe the production of organic fertilisers, which are the reasons for this if these changes are concerned that all fertilisers are even. It is not clear whether a sublegal act should prescribe the production of fertilisers or not, or just as the quality of fertilisers is suggested. Unfortunately, this is stated in the reasoning of the law, so it would be good to explain it in a certain way. Article 5 is replaced by the following: Namely, when prescribed by law, it is also a higher level of protection against the mechanism for users, because among other data in the declaration, the name and content of other substances contained in the fertiliser and when it is given to the minister's authority to regulate it then on a small door can be seen if I can be freely told and something is allowed. Then, in Article 15, why the provision of point 6 is deleted, by which a fine is punishable for the offence of a legal person if the analysis of fertilisers and soil enhancer is not carried out by a unique method which is the reason. In accordance with Article 19(1) of the rules laid down in this Act, the minister is obliged to adopt within one year the regulation referred to in Article 18(2) as it turns out that there is no time limit for the adoption of such an important regulation and that it would be good to correct it and that we have a defined deadline. I think this open question needs to be pointed out here. I don't think it's questionable that this law shouldn't be supported, but I think with these particular remarks, it would in any case improve and adjust to make it better in application and practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85700	Thank you. Final? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85701	Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on fertilisers and soil enhancers, P.Z. I am voting on the final draft of the law. To vote. The result? I find that with 93 votes for and 3 abstentions, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85702	Moving to the next item of the agenda. 15. Proposal for a law on the gas market, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 642 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85703	Thank you. Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The law before you allows the implementation of the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union which provides for the adoption of this Gas Market Act as a final part of the process of harmonising the legal framework of the Republic of Croatia in the field of energy with the acquis of the European Union. The new law seeks to regulate the legal framework of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia, which is already in line with the legal acquis of the European Union at a high level. Therefore, the remaining harmonisation of the gas market law is, and thus we have actually completed the whole cycle of harmonisation of the law in this important sector. The adoption of this new law achieves the following objectives. The demarcation between the gas activities of production, transport, terminal management for ingested natural gas, gas storage, distribution and gas supply. The establishment of a transport system operator, a terminal operator for gas installed, a gas storage system operator and a distribution system operator with clearly defined obligations and responsibilities. The establishment of mutual relations in order to provide all services on the gas market in a transparent, objective and impartial manner, to determine the conditions, deadlines and dynamics of the opening of the gas market, to define the conditions of construction of new facilities, to enable the effective integration of the national gas system with systems in Europe. The proposed gas market law regulates the rules and measures to carry out energy activities in the natural gas sector including ingested natural gas, biogas and biomass gas and other types of gas if these types of gas can be technically and safely transported through the gas system. Furthermore, the rights and duties of the gas market participants, the separation of the activities of the system operator, the access of the third party to the gas system and the opening of the natural gas market shall be governed. The draft law also lays down a new system of sublegal acts for the implementation of laws to complete the process of harmonising the rules in the gas sector with the acquis of the European Union. This includes the following sub-legislative acts, natural gas security regulations, natural gas market organisation rules, transport system network rules, distribution system network rules, gas storage system rules, UPP terminal usage rules, gas supply price decision for gas suppliers, for suppliers. The necessary dynamics and liberalisation of the gas market and its opening also require the adoption of this law, currently due to inadequate legal and sub-legislative solutions, the process has actually been stopped. In accordance with the relevant EU directive, the opening of the market will take place gradually, so that the status of a privileged buyer since 1 August 2007 is acquired by all customers who do not belong to the household category and, since 1 August 2008, the status of a privileged buyer will be acquired and the household will be fully opened by the market. It is also necessary to stress that the proposed law detailedly regulates the role of the INA of the oil industry as a natural gas producer and as a gas supplier for the tariff buyer. It leaves us with the possibility that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can set the price for gas supply and, in addition, to protect domestic ore goods and protect customers in the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can prescribe the highest level of gas price for customers by 1 August 2011 or prescribe the highest level of prices only for domestic gas when sold to customers in the Republic of Croatia. It is also regulated that the gas producer, transport system operator, distribution system operator, gas storage system operator and gas terminal operator are obliged to ensure effective and non-discriminatory access to the network of production pipelines, transport system, distribution system, gas storage system and natural gas terminals and, in accordance with the Regulation on the organisation of the natural gas market, general conditions for natural gas supply, gas network connection compensation, and to increase the network rules of the transport system or network rules, as well as the rules on the application of the gas storage system or the rules for the use of terminals for gas installed natural gas. In the end, I would also like to stress that, in addition to the urgency of this law, the adoption of this law in order to comply with the acquis of the European Union is an urgent matter, and because, as I said in the introduction, the adoption of this Act and the sublegal acts that will be adopted under this Act will allow for an accelerated process of liberalisation of the opening of the gas market in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85704	Thank you. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? The word has a distinguished representative, Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85705	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. It should be noted that this proposal for a law on the gas market after a long period of time has been prepared professionally and comprehensively. It is obvious that it leads to the liberalisation of the gas market and that natural monopolies will be aware of the regulated activity and will finally put all market activities on the market. Less remarks could be made to the proposed text, one of which I think is the principle, so for which I ask that on behalf of the applicant and consider it, be the next. In several places, for example, Article 18, Article 2(2), point (1), Article 21(2), point 1 of the Law states that in the case of tendering for concessions, units of regional self-government must possess a detailed plan of arrangements or a location permit. In my opinion, it would be enough to have an idea solution with a specification of expected pipelines in length and profiles. For what? So the state invested significant funds through Plinacro to build the Pula-Karlovac pipeline and started building the Bosiljevo-Zadar-Split-Dubrovnik pipeline. It is difficult to expect the justification of this investment if at the same time in the counties through which the pipeline is passing does not develop a distribution network. The distribution network is developing a distributor who will get a job in a concession competition. Since the distributor is professional and ultimately financially capable of preparing and submitting the costs for obtaining a local authorisation, that part of the job should be left to him. The current solution does not motivate the counties to invest more significant funds to prepare a concession tender just for all the necessary location permits. Thus, the entire EU gasification project, unfortunately, could be called into question. In addition to that principle, I intend to submit a specific amendment to Article 30 in order to add points 5 and 6 to paragraph 1. Point 5, it's the right of the distribution system operator. I suggest adding points that will read, that a distributor may refuse access to a distribution system to a buyer who has not paid gas at the same or other location of the same distribution area and point 6 by which the distributor could refuse access to the distribution system by a new owner or user of an object where there is a debt for spent gas from the legal "counsel" of the same facility until the debt is settled. The explanation is this: At this time, there are quite a number of gas consumers present on the market, who mainly for speculative reasons through the leases of business premises create debt in gas consumption and, after shutting down from the system, simply change the location or seek to build a new connection, thus avoiding an old obligation. Since the concept of this law is that any customer can freely choose the operator and change it, while the existing distributor operator cannot refuse to connect to the gas if there is no such legal basis, these amendments are proposed to prevent future similar actions. In the same way, the purchasers of apartments and business premises are obliged to pay attention to the purchase of property-loaded debts. I ask you to study these amendments and accept them because they are precisely in terms of the purpose and purpose of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85706	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85707	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Plinification of Croatia is certainly an important segment in the overall energy policy of the Republic of Croatia and... Sector, energy sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Certainly, given what he is up to when it comes to those areas that have not yet been covered by Croatia and have been thinking about it until a few years ago when it comes to gasification and the importance of gas as an energy energy energy energy, this particularly for those areas that have not so far had the chance to open up new opportunities and some new realities and to "de facto" gas and gasification throughout Croatia has its economic and I would say my social meaning. Certainly, on the issue of environmental protection, it is an acceptable energy and will soon be taken and taken in the Croatian economy and, when it comes to citizens, that place that takes place in the developed countries of Europe and the developed countries of the world. I'd just like to say a few words about chapter 5. When it comes to an operator of the distribution system, or when it comes to counties in the region of Dalmatia, in particular Split-Dalmatin County, that these issues which are raised by the basis of this Law in the first place, given the letter I received, are related to the agreed spatial plans. Well, the estimates are that, possibly, some of the provisions of the law could have been the gasification process itself and the establishment of a gas market in areas that were not so far, which have not so far had access to that energy so that it could create certain problems. However, that the process itself, the procedure itself, when it comes to the concession process, could possibly be something longer than the legislator, legislator and legislator would want to achieve. In any case, it is a good situation that the county will be the one to create relations with the operator or distributor and there we see one great possibility that it settles, the areas of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to Split-Dalmatin County then I think of Sinj, I mean the Dalmatian Zagora, to get their chance. It would not be good for the decision-making of representative bodies to impose solutions that would benefit and in the direction of gas-related companies rather than primarily need to be for the area, for what is realistically covered by areas that are inhabited, and possibly something further away from the main gas pipeline itself. In any case, when it comes to development and the future of Croatia, in particular when it comes to Dalmatia, I consider that given the numerous working zones that are being opened, economic working zones that this is one great opportunity and that decisions and counties, as well as other competent institutions in this sector, will follow the principle of equal development of the Republic of Croatia, which is the starting point of this Government of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the development of those areas that have so far been inferior. I must say that, and by accepting this Law, and in particular by its application, it will also have to make a great effort from all sides in the implementation of this project, that when it comes to gasification, it will have to make a significant and great effort to inform the public, and we know that in the countries of Western Europe when it comes to the energy sector, the public is deeply involved in decision-making, and the gas can say that in some ways the energy that is still in the good part of Croatia, most of Croatia, has so far been inaccessible and that any prejudice should be done through consultation, information, means the foundation of certain education that it should be achieved by a state which would make as many citizens, as many economic operators participate in its consumption, in its consumption. In any case, this Law, which also harmonizes our legislation with European Union legislation, is good, acceptable, however, should in any case find models and ways that, when it comes to the spatial plans of the county, the unit of local self-government should not be an obstacle to the realisation and application of the law itself, or to the opening of the gas market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85708	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're finishing the morning session. The extension is 15 hours with the Law, on the final proposal of the Railway Safety Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85709	Final draft law on the gas market, P.Z. No. 642. Representative, the amendment was submitted to me by representative Velimir Ples. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85710	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The separation of the activity and supply of gas distribution is one of the most significant changes in the gas sector is regulated by this law, gas supply and gas trade, and gas distribution is the transmission of gas through the distribution system to supply gas to final customers excluding gas supply. Article 30 of the Law refers to the right to access the distribution system, which is a commercial legal function and needs to be linked to Article 53 of this Act which regulates the right to access by a third party. Both articles speak of the right to access the system, which is different from the right to join the system. Relations in access, system and connection to the system are resolved by contracts. Article 6 of this Act introduces contracts on the gas market including accession contracts, supply contracts and gas distribution contracts. The gas supply contract shall be concluded by the buyer with the gas supplier and the gas distribution contract shall be concluded between the distribution system user and the distribution system operator. The gas supply contract obliges the customer to pay the supplier a contracted, or regulated gas price, and the gas distribution contract makes the user of the system... He's pulling. Thank you. .../President: Don't! Come on! / He didn't say anything. [[I didn't tell you anything!]] Okay. Almost there. The gas supply contract obliges the customer to pay the supplier a contracted or regulated gas price and the gas distribution contract obliges the user of the system to pay the operator of the distribution system the regulated price for the use of the system. Detailed processing of both contracts will be in general conditions for natural gas supply, as resolved in electricity. So the gas is owned by the supplier, and the network is operated by the distribution system operator. The customer's relation to the goods in this case is solved by the supplier, and the use of the network and access to the network with the distribution network operator. It can be concluded from the above that the distribution system operator only distributes gas on behalf of and on behalf of the supplier and cannot refuse access to the system unless gas is paid to the supplier. In accordance with Article 41(6) of this Act, the supplier may suspend or suspend the delivery if the customer does not comply with the supply contract or does not pay the gas price. Faster! The supplier is the one who cares about gas payments, not the distributor. We don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85711	The secretary of state was Tajana Kesic. Representative Velimir Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85712	Here's because my debate was the only one on this issue, regretting that this amendment was not accepted because I wanted to improve the text of this law. I'll withdraw my amendment then, but I'm saying this was about improving the text of the law. But if you say it'll be settled through energy law then fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85713	We could have done that a little while ago. The amendment has been withdrawn. I am voting on the final draft of the law. We can vote. The result? With 92 votes in favour and 5 abstentions, the proposed amendment, the law, the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85714	We'll continue with the afternoon session. 16. Final proposal of the Railway Safety Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 602 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 155 to 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Secretary of State Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Allow me to present in a few minutes the most important elements relating to the Railway Safety Act and especially regarding the differences between the first and second readings of this law. I will remind you, the first step in the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the European basis of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was in the area of the 2003 Railway Law, which has been in force since 1 January 2006. The basic principle under this law is the establishment of a railway system on the principle of separation of railway infrastructure from railway operations or transport and tow trains and railway operators in passenger and cargo transport. With the aim of increasing the competitiveness of the national railway company, the Law on the division of the trade company "Croatian Railways" was also adopted in 2005 and a brand new organisation of Croatian Railways was implemented in commercially-oriented transport companies. As regards the Law on Railway Safety, the basic text has so far been adopted in 1992 and has undergone two amendments since 2003 and 2004. The proposal for a new Law on Railway Safety is in line with the new domestic legal and sub-legal solutions in the area of railways and secondary sources of European Union law. The law transposes parts of the material provisions of the Railway Safety Directive as well as the form of a Directive on the interoperability of the high-speed railway system and conventional railways. By law, the European Union Directive provides for the establishment of three bodies, the safety authority responsible for which an independent national body will be responsible for the regulation, management and supervision of the entire rail safety system. The safety authority will be established as a separate body by special law and until now part of these operations have been carried out by the Croatian Railways. The second body is an investigative body, which is an independent national authority responsible for conducting a serious accident investigation as extraordinary events that could, under certain circumstances, lead to serious accidents. The investigating body will be established within the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and until now part of these operations have also been carried out by the Croatian Railways. And the third body proposed by this law is to establish the notified body as an independent national body responsible for assessing the conformity of the use of individual subsystems and equipment on rail infrastructure from an interoperability aspect. So far, these jobs have not been done in this way in the Republic of Croatia. The paper is also the basis for this law to introduce, or implement, the taking over of responsibilities for performing certain tasks that have so far been in the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, such as conducting expert examinations, conducting the registers of railway infrastructures, carrying out technical checks on railway vehicles, making rules that were in part of the work of the national railway company, etc. Of course, all these new jobs will result in the need to increase the administrative capacity of the Railway Administration in the resolution ministry as well as the formation of new bodies already mentioned. Regarding the differences between the first and second readings, the first reading was conducted in December of last year. It was a fundamental remark adopted, the Committee's observations on legislation. It is implemented and permeated throughout the bill. In the first proposal for a criminal provision, they were part of the article to which they relate. This final proposal adopted the objection of the Legislative Committee so that criminal provisions are structured so that, as usual, they are at the end of the law itself and are excluded from the relevant articles to which they apply. For further questions, I am at my disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85716	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Maritime and Liaison Committee, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85717	Thank you very much. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament at the 63rd session held in March 2007 discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on Railway Safety, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 602 which was submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the Final Proposal of the Railway Safety Act as a parent working body. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant, who pointed out that this law primarily governed the redefining and harmonisation of the rights and obligations of railways entities arising from the provision of the Law on Railways which governs the structure of the railway system on the principle of separation of transport from infrastructure, compliance with the provisions of the European Union Security Directive, and in the section relating to the definition and establishment of a safety management system that meets the standards and requirements of the European Union. Redefining of business operators, systems of responsibility and procedures in the event of extraordinary events, the establishment of a safety authority, the notified body and the investigating body, the conditions for passing expert examinations and the homoisation of the domestic rail system with the requirements and interoperability of the European Union network. The president of the Croatian Railways Union has submitted to the Committee for consideration their proposal is a complement to the law in question, which he or she has ordinarily explained. It was shown by a representative of the applicant who stressed that most of the objections are not an elemental part of this law but belongs to sublaws and organisational acts of the companies. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships with the majority of votes, 9 for and 1 abstentions decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Safety in Railway Transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85718	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85719	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Here I found it necessary to say a few words about the final proposal of the safety legislation in railway transport, and from the title, with two, three titles or several titles, on several occasions I received various remarks on what to the system of reorganisation in the Croatian Railways and which, of course, has an inefficient or ineffective effect in the Croatian Railways. I would refer here to those complaints that I most often received and applied to a segment relating to security. The safety of rail transport has been threatened, they say, to this extent that it seems that it is only waiting for some of the major disasters to occur which, given the consequences, could be thrown away in total... the economy of the Republic of Croatia on its knees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He says, "The railways, wagons, locomotives, reputation and what is the worst we often carry and dangerous substances have been destroyed." He wonders why the management of the Croatian Railways cannot prevent the alienation of diesel fuel, oil, anti-freezes, goods from the wagon and so on about what is already written about in the present press, and there are records of internal control. The source states that we have lost and lost the day and night transport of the car "Scode" for reasons that we were no longer given confidence. The HH needs to do this urgently because the efforts made by the Croatian government will not produce any results due to a high degree of ignorance, unfortunately and intentionally poor behaviour. How to interpret that we bought it is a 2004 letter of 274 official expensive cars. This author lists drivers, stunt tolls and so on. On the other side, the locomotive parts remained on customs duty for several years because of unpaid customs duties. The highlight of all is that we've had too many official cars before. However, railways and wagons across the Croatian railways are often empty, as well as adhesions. Trucks and paws, so-called. ecological pollutants, meanwhile, are already destroying expensive newly built highways along the destroyed roads. It's known how many miles a truck can carry. In Austria, Germany, Slovenia and Italy, for example. But unfortunately with us because of the traffic jams, it's real art to drive a personal car and so you don't... either the tow truck. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The last ten years in HZ have changed more than 10 directors without any results already on the contrary, while in the eyes of foreign railway administrations we look unserious, rather sad. Croatia's railways since 90th, since 1992, have been admitted to an equal membership of UIC based in Paris. It also commits that certain standards and rules of conduct seem to be respected for various HH powers still "the far shore". Croatian railways also received a guarantee from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for international loans. The Euro company "Tisen" and so on for the regular repair of freight wagons and that it exits most of the workshops with such, in such a technical state that many of them threaten the safety of rail transport. What to say is that the Croatian railways sold, which excavated more than two thousand freight wagons, and that we did not, although it was written in writing, remove expensive unified spare parts that we do not have on the ground or buy new ones for expensive money. So from all of these letters, there are certainly several of them mainly come out that regardless of all the restructurings that have been done within the Croatian Railways that we still have employed 14 thousand people in the Croatian Railways and that, in addition to everything that many people do in these railways, there are a large number of overtime hours. For an ordinary man, I also have to admit to me that I have made a little more effort to do this, to deal with this topic quite vaguely how we talk all the time about how in the Croatian Railways we have too many employees and how we want to reduce it to smaller companies. To do some "out sourcing" services and so on. And at the same time, we pay, or pay, that amount of overtime. That can only talk about something. That those people we have employees in the Railways work and are used in those jobs that aren't manufacturing jobs. So administration and bureaucracy. Restructure precisely means reducing staff in those jobs that are expensive and non-profitable "vis" of those jobs that are really necessary and necessary to be done. The solution is of course not in the signing of orders for overtime, which is often a code for additional payment to various employees we want to keep but is a code for this restructuring to actually be carried out. And I have to admit that it also affects its way and its security in transport. I would also refer further to the quotations in this text, which relate to the alienation of property. It says: Day and night, they are estranged in huge amounts of diesel fuel from maneuvers diesel locomotives and diesel motor trains. In addition, anti-freez is estranged where unconscious workers are waiting in line with canisters when pumping it out of large barrels. Motor oil next to car response and tractors and other diesel vehicles. The time of spring seed is coming and will be in enormous amounts of alienation... which is visible from trace amounts of residues by stations wide, and across HH and lack of content in unloadings both on HH and in neighbouring railway administrations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By dropping content for example... and cereals are not damaged by car filling in most cases because it is little enough to drop the same content without damage to the filling. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is no longer possible to close the lever completely when it is closed again because of the retention of the contents. The highlight of all is that it's alienated next to the other and the goods from the closed wagons. The heating of the fillings or certain aids may be opened and restored to function. The fillings can be obtained from certain stations and in the original, interesting. I can cut myself with a special glue and reunite. We note that it is part of the same HH staff and I categorically argue that responsible managers are also known from the same negativeity. And that one part of them was involved in the above. Therefore, blaming the heavy thefts alongside the perpetrators we propose that both sanctioning and termination of the contract or obligation and the responsible manager and the station should be fined accordingly. Passengers from passing trains, day and night, see the negatives as they are already used to the crime that is responsible for HZ and also in the MUP, can or simply do not want to prevent them. We don't understand what responsible executives of all dams are doing. Because of these and other negative actions, a very ugly picture is being created for the entire, overall railway staff. So these are the two segments I think we haven't talked about so far. There have been repeated comments from various sides. It's been written several times in the papers. And what, where it directly affects traffic safety, may be most visible in the section relating to the letter that I received, which refers to the replacement of the slippers on the brake systems. In order to reduce the cost of maintenance of passenger and freight wagons, all wagons carrying out a regular repair of the decommissioned brake slipper shall be measured. If the thickness of the brake slipper is 20 millimeters and more the same must be marked and deposited for that particular place. The authorised representative of HZ will review such brake slippers and make a record with the workshop representative. What am I trying to say? The frequent changes in these brake slippers obviously go to someone in favor. And now maybe we should come to what they've come to me for, and they've come to me from a department called the technical inspection of the vehicle's car, the last reconstruction, or the last reorganization within the HH, are from one special unit, as the department of the driver's surveyor, transferred to the so-called. Cargo service, so the carriers, among the carriers. They assure me, and I have no reason to suspect it, that in the countries surrounding us, which is in Austria, Italy and Germany, such viewers are in special units, because logic would say if they had to go to restrictive measures to get a vehicle out of transport, then of course they can't be organisational in the same, in the same organisation where the transport itself is carried out, especially if it isn't the chief manager of that business unit that deals with transport. That would be, as a matter of principle, cadiya judges, cadiya sues. And it would make sense that those who carry out some checks, say, inspections or something like that are in something that is independent. Personally, I think that maybe it's not even a good solution to even being inside HH because it would be a lot of logic if such checks were out of HH and it would be some body that is completely independent because then, of course, the impact and impact on the selective change of opinion would be much less. So the logic of things states that I do not feel happy with the solution that it is within the carrier business unit. Although I have heard some other arguments about the fact that this is not about legal inspections but that it is only a direct technical examination within which a lot of fast ad hoc repairs can be made from changes in some lamps, some minor situations that in such cases would actually make it easier for the carrier to leave the car alone and should not be put on hold, i.e. to put aside driving and to ensure that repair can be provided. Of course, not sufficiently addressed to the structure of this job can't arbitration and I can't say what's better and what's worse. However, it would ask the proposer to examine, once again, all the advantages and disadvantages of this solution, i.e. to find a way in the long term, that all the services relating to inspections, because today inspections are mainly reviewing what some have already examined, to organise outside the HH, so that work, work in HH is being reviewed by someone who is not under the same control as the HH Director. Well, that's about what I wanted to say today. So let's no longer push our heads into the sand before we know it, before the general knowledge that the thefts in HH are huge. Put it under control. Introduce a hierarchy as a principle of the pyramid, it means that the executives, the executives, are responsible for their people below them. Change them as necessary. But don't let the property be alienated. That's one thing. Second, consider that the safety of the wagon, or of the railways along the lines, depends on those direct searchers, or depends on inspections that must be independent. And ultimately, by joining the European Union itself, it is of increasing importance to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85720	Thank you. Secretary of State Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament there were a lot of objections after this first debate, so I decided to give answers, I hope, that I will be able to respond to most of the comments made. I will start by, namely, commenting on the frequent thefts in the Croatian Railways I must deny the claim that nothing is done on this serious issue and a serious problem. The fact is next. Over the past two years, over 20 people have been fired for establishing such criminal or theft, I don't know how to qualify, as they are qualified in terms of value. 20 people have been in the last two years, which they could say almost monthly, so one was caught, processed and shipped from the Croatian Railways. Of course, there are no processes in progress that have not yet resulted in the final acquis. And of course aware as in any other large system where a large number of people work, where they come into contact with material goods that can easily be cashed, fully aware of the facts and further and increased caution and attention to this common problem. So I can also tell you from the first hand that the Supervisory Board is also pulling trains, so one of the four companies created by the division of Croatian Railways at its first session, held a month ago, concluded that this particular problem will be dealt with specifically and that, apart from cooperation, enhanced cooperation with the police, with internal controls and supervisions, it will also bring about possible technical solutions that would prevent alienation of special fuels on the Croatian railways. As for further comments on the fact that locomotives are without spare parts, that there are a lot of cars I can only say that no vehicle that does not correspond 100% to its regularity cannot be transported in public transport, so neither locomotives nor wagons. Since there were no delays in rail transport caused by possible malfunctions, we can say in fact that this is an indication that such a situation was not very critical. It is possible that some of it was once late, but we definitely see that rail traffic is being regularly carried out which proves that such situations, that they are not so pronounced as to bring in any form and threaten the regularity of carrying out rail or freight, any passenger traffic. As for the road trucks and the stories that the railways are ecological, of course, which is true, I must say that since last autumn, for the first time in the history of Croatian railways, one significant step has been taken by completing the combined terminal in Spačva, assumptions have been made to start the transport of the first combined intermodal transport between Spačva in the east of Croatia and Ljubljana, so the possibility that truck carriers have and which will be combined with the permit policy towards the countries east of Croatia and the existence of this line will soon lead to rentability, so far this is not the case and truck carriers do not want to benefit, although prices are identical, so the economic costs of using the train themselves are identical to the costs of using the sum of the total costs that they have on a regular road route. Further restructuring that is necessary is precisely natural. The restructuring is certainly ongoing. In the third, at the end of the third year of the term of office, we can actually say at the beginning of the fourth year that we can demonstrate mathematically the results of this restructuring process. As this restructuring resulted last year with 501 fewer employees in the Croatian Railways, a year before 560, 560, all people, of course with encouraged severances and voluntary contracts with the Croatian Railways and so directly achieved a situation where the productivity of Croatian Railways was raised naturally with rationalization in other areas, but this definitely contributed most to the rise of productivity, i.e. in the railways we say it precisely by an exact indicator of the so-called "cv". The working ratio, which was 243 two years ago at the end of 2005, was reduced to 2010, at the end of last year to 190 and the 2007 target was 170. This process is carried out with the consent and in partnership with the World Bank under PAL2, a restructuring loan involving both Croatian railways and which clearly delivers results. I must also withdraw here a parallel on the results of some previous failed restructurings, thus pointing out that in the period 2001 to 2003 800 people were also more employed in the Croatian Railways system from 22 000 to approximately 22.800. So there was a restructuring process that did not give its purpose, but there is also a restructuring process that gives its full purpose and its result that I have just argued with these few figures. As for the problem of the car browser, I have to deny here that there is a situation when the car searchers are within the Ministry. We are not familiar with this situation in the ministry, we would really consider with due attention any example in the world where car viewers, so people who are actually in the function of preventing operators, employees of the body of the state administration. I deeply doubt that it exists somewhere, possibly that you got the wrong information and, of course, it's not even the case in the Croatian Railways. By the old structure and by the new structure, it has been proposed and adopted that the service of the technical examination of the wagon be part of the operator and, in accordance with the conclusion, if I am not wrong of the Committee for, the parent board, also the consultation was made, once again and with the social partners on the subject, so here are two sentences of the indication of the dominant union, so the union of technical examination of the wagons and trains from three days ago quote here and say that, therefore, I quote: "the experiences of other railway administrations tell us that we are in creating a decision on the positioning of the technical examination of the vehicle of a unique and complete right when we made a decision on positioning in HZ Kargu d.o.o. where and perform TPV work in the 70% range. Provided services to HH travellers, excuse me, it's a mistake. Service provision HZ traveller’s d.o.o. TPV workers shall be closed and financed by the construction of the costs of the share of technical car viewers. Here's so much in this address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85722	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85723	Thank you very much. I'd have two corrections. The first refers when you spoke to your colleague Breglec about security and not to question security. I'd remind you of that one accident that happened a year or two ago when she took off the wagons were on a train that went to Rijeka. On that occasion, it was found that there was no brake system on the locomotive and that it braked the wagons and that there was a result, i.e. due to the bad brake system, there was an accident. So I'm not so sure that things are quite as technicalally brilliant on our tracks, so you'd beg for it, it's just one creamword to think about it. So we don't have to wait for the accident to convince us something's wrong. And I don't know if you got me wrong. I wasn't talking about the vehicle inspection, the tow truck, or the car to get that check done outside HH. I said it's possible to do a technical examination to be outside HZ, and I didn't think they'd be at the ministry to understand each other, but I questioned whether it was possible to be within that organisational unit they're also reviewing. I think the system so far was better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85724	Thank you. Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, distinguished representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85725	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Railway Safety Act for the second time and after Mrs. Alenka's debate, those old railwaymen, and I've spent 30 years on the railroad, here, regardless of the number of employees I'd still have a bit of a job on the railroad because she got into the profession, let's say she doesn't understand, let's say that before my debate I'll say a few words in a free period of use, a colleague, from her debate would be able to conclude that here, that they're on the railroad, that the railways are impertinent people, that there's most of the thieves that are certainly not standing. There are 14 thousand people working on the railroad today. Mrs. Alenka in '90. the years on the Croatian Railways or ŽDP Zagreb worked 41 thousand 220 people and restructuring all this time whether this government or the former government is being implemented on the Croatian Railways, but Croatian railways are such a sensitive issue and any government for the Croatian economy and in general, and they are also in the system of international transport, so it is certainly very difficult to implement restructuring. You said here that overtime on the Croatian Railways is not reduced, it is a system in which it is simply impossible to perform overtime. Is it necessary to strive for his reduction? Of course you should, but the structure of overtime shows that it is in the early hours of overtime for executive staff, so train traffic, primarily machinery staff, conductors, escorts, which is impossible if a man runs out of shift in Slavonski Brod, and he is from Rijeka, he must return to his home unit which goes into his overtime, but he does not go into actual work and running a tow vehicle or working there and it is simply impossible. You said you were estranged by motor oil, that oil fits for tractors and so on. That's not true. Our locomotives on the Croatian railways, diesel locomotives are American production and they spend American oil until the '90s. A year, after '90. For years, they spend motor oil Ilalokomol 40 and that doesn't match any other means of transport because there are too many substances in there and whoever uses it will surely destroy either their tractor or their vehicle so that we don't mess with something that isn't really true, and we show people as some kind of let's say immoral persons. You said it was in someone's interest to change the brake slippers. Well, it's certainly in someone's interest to spend the brakes on the slippers. There is a law, regulation and on the railway there are somewhere around 98 regulations along with this Law that we bring about the safety of rail traffic and that regulates it, under which thicknesses must be changed by a brake of slippers, and what you said was that someone gave the order to a driver to brake slippers that were not exhausted up to 20 millimetres must be deposited. I think it's just a contribution to saving, because those brake slippers can still be used on another tow truck or on the car, and I remember the '90s. In the 1990s, when Croatia became independent, when we didn't have brake slippers, when we took off old slippers from one locomotive to the other, from wagons that were deposited on railway stations and driven on those old slippers, and Croatian railways all the time since '90. Thank God and all the war years didn't stop. So that the car browsers in no railway system in Europe that I know are not outside the Croatian Railways system, they are simply employees who are subject to both medical examination and professional training and if you have seen both the railway in Italy and Austria you see a hammer browser everywhere. Fortunately, it's less because the brakes of the slippers are increasingly retreating from use, and they're going with disc brakes, electrodynamic brakes, and so on. The rotation of the train you mentioned according to Rijeka is not the cause of the fault of the brake on the locomotive, because the locomotive is only in the extreme case of the actual braked gross, the wagons are calculated in the required and really braked gross, and the engine power of the locomotive is calculated only if there is no necessary brake gross to cover the actual brake gross to calculate the required brake gross to lower one train, and according to the River I tell you it is not easy to lower the train. Over 25 proms are down, and the weight and the trains are 2,000 tonnes and 500 metres long. As for train theft, it happens, happens everywhere in the world, but at least from rail personnel. Today in the Croatian Railways and before in the Yugoslav Railways, trains operate depending on the length of the station, which can be over 500, 600 and up to 650 meters and you imagine one man on a train, on a locomotive, on a 650m train, and what happens in the dark somewhere else on a wagon. It's simply something that railmen and railway workers can't stop on stations or on tow trucks, but together with the police, we certainly need to strive to make it as small as possible. Now I'm going to say a few words in front of the club about really this Law on Railway Safety. In the Republic of Croatia, this time, the area of rail transport was regulated by the Law on Safety in Railway Transport, adopted in 1992, amendments '93. and in 2004. The relevant Law on Railway Safety and Sublaws was adopted under this Act and the acts of the Croatian Railways prescribed the conditions, the way for safe, orderly and smooth operation of rail transport. Based on the obligation to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquiss of the European Union according to the SAA and the national EU programme of 2006 a new proposal for a Law on Railway Safety has been drawn up. The proposal for a new Law on Railway Safety is in line with the new domestic legal and sub-legal solutions in the area of railways and secondary sources of European Union law. Parts of the material provisions, the Railway Safety Directive, as well as the two Directives on the interoperability of the high-speed railway system and the conventional railway system are incorporated into the law. The adoption of this Railway Safety Act has primarily resulted in redefining and harmonising the rights and obligations of railway entities arising from the principle of separation of transport from infrastructure under the Law on Railways. In the section relating to the definition and establishment of a security management system, this Law meets the guidelines of the European Union by redefining business operators, liability systems and emergency procedures. The law provides for the establishment of three bodies, a body responsible for security, an investigative body and a notified body. The papers introduced by this Law are the basis for the EU Directive to take over responsibilities for performing certain tasks which have so far not been in the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, such as conducting expert tests, conducting infrastructure registers and railway vehicles, carrying out technical checks on railway vehicles, making rules that were in part of the work of the national railway company etc. All of these new jobs will result in the need to increase the administrative capacity of the railway administration in the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. The adoption of this law will create legislative, institutional, functional assumptions for harmonising the organisational and technical structure of rail safety and rail system as a whole, in the Republic of Croatia with secondary rights, the regulations of the European Union which regulate the area of security and rail transport through the definition of liability between railway actors. The organisation of the aforementioned bodies will achieve a higher level of security and thus facilitate access to the rail transport market in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will certainly support the adoption of this Railway Safety Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85726	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85727	Thank you very much. You'd correct the inaccuracy of your colleagues when he told me that I told the railways that they were wicked people. Far from them being wicked men. I was just talking about the fact that the thefts were very common to the point that I got information from some people that the railways were leaving for work with empty tanks so that they could fill the same on the spot. Apparently, they're afraid to drive carnisters in the trunk. Same as the brake slippers and their alterations. Of course we need to change them. It's just a question of whether they're changing and what frequency they're changing. Namely, if it stops all the time with those slippers and if the brakes only go on the wagons, then their spending is significantly higher. Well, in that context, I made a note. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85728	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85729	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I will not speak as professionally as a colleague of the Wolf who spent his working life on the railroad. But I'm gonna say I know a lot about the railroad. Unfortunately, the interest in this law or this problem may be best visible also about the time when we are discussing and how many of us are here in this assembly. This is the second time we've discussed this law in a relatively short period of time. On December 13, about the same environment, we discussed it at the first reading, which was held at the 23rd session, and discussed a law that we will certainly adopt tomorrow. Unfortunately, we're going to pass the law that's here, and it's best visible to resatisfy the form, but not the content. If this is a very important law, it is also visible for the very reasons why this law is passed. Among other things, the promoter explains the following reasons: The Republic of Croatia makes transport an integral part of Europe and as such plays a significant role in the functioning of European and global traffic flows, which in a certain way determines the development needs of the Republic of Croatia in the area of transport, above all... transport as one of the backbones of the country's overall economic and social progress. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The strategic objective of this law is to connect with the European environment and integrate into European integration. In the Member States of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia is intensively taking measures to join the European Union as a full member. The railroad is experiencing a kind of rebirth. There is an increasing tendency for transport needs to meet environmentally acceptable and energy cheaper and more economical transport branches, in which the railways that record a significant increase in passenger and freight transport in the European Union are ahead. Market orientation and competitive relations on profitability as a business basis, as well as on modernisation and development as an inevitable prerequisite for concrete rail transport, the basis for the creation of a business policy for all railways in the Member States of the European Union and the candidate countries of the European Union, in which Croatia is also. Unfortunately, I will say that all of this may also stand for some other countries, but unfortunately for the Republic of Croatia, no, because it is obvious that the will of this government means halting the growth and development of the Croatian railways, so that all of this which is proposed by this law is impossible as an important reason and stresses. This Law on Railway Safety states that, above all, redefining and harmonisation of the rights and obligations of railway entities arising from the provisions of the Law on Railways, which governs the structure of the railway system on the principle of separation of transport from infrastructure, is in line with the provisions and directives of the European Union on safety, in a work relating to the definition and establishment of a system managed by security that meets the standards and requirements of the European Union. Redefining of business operators, system of responsibility and procedures in the event of emergency events, the establishment of a safety authority, the notified body, the investigating body, the conditions for passing expert examinations, and the harmonisation of the domestic rail system with the requirements of interoperability of the European Union networks. The SDP club, of course, supports all possible integration and integration within the railways. It's inevitability. But we also point out that this law is unquestionably in an inferior position to bring all domestic operators whose re-shuffled by the Law on Railways, unfortunately, is not yet high-quality. And he didn't have a very good life. I will not talk about the different concepts we had in the past government and in the present. We've talked about this a lot. Especially when we passed the Law on Railways. However, it is certain that we will not meet the conditions set out in many articles of this law, and primarily read in Article 1 which states that this law regulates the conditions and means for safe, orderly, regular and uninterrupted operation of rail transport and the functioning of the rail system as a whole, as well as the authority's competence to implement and monitor its implementation. Namely, the age of the fleet of our operators, a carg that is 26 years old, our wagons 26 years old, a locomotive if I'm not mistaken for twenty-eight years, stopped production of new wagons or based on previous plans if I'm not mistaken, should produce a thousand 670 wagons by 2008. According to the latest information from Djura Djakovic and special vehicles, 900 cars will be delivered these days. So almost half of the new wagons are less than the objective need was during this time period and with these cars and with old locomotives, the old wagons are certainly neither safe nor regular nor financially possible to bring them into an equal position with other operators. It is unquestionable that this law goes well beyond or before time, or rather unfortunately there is no rebellion in real life. So the basic question is why or who this law is passed. For the sake of the European Union or for ourselves? The SDP's position is very clear. We are not entering Europe to be just one of the members of Europe, but to feel comfortable in Europe and to enter we must make all good assumptions that we are prepared to enter this major integration. That this law has been written for the purposes of the European Union is best seen in certain articles of this law, better said in the transitional and final provisions, which states, among other things, that the Minister will adopt sub-legislative acts within six months, within a year, within two years, within three years, or at the latest until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the membership of the European Union, Article 99 of this Law. Article 50 of this Act, which may best or through which I will best paint the real state of things, says that crossing the railway line and road must not be at the same level in the following cases: at crossing the railway and highway, at crossing the railway line of importance for international transport and public roads, etc. But also, you can't be at the level or in case you're... conditions relating to the high frequency of rail and road transport, specific local opportunities or other reasons affecting traffic safety. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll tell you, only in the area of Brod-Posavina County through which the highway passes all its length we have five state, seventeen county and three local roads that are at the level. A large number of unclassified roads. So ask yourself a basic question if we haven't been able to solve this problem by now, so when are we going to solve it? In addition, twenty-seven road crossings are underprotected. It's just signals, so there's no ramps or half ramps. Of course, and that as well as my club assures me that this law aims only to create a formal assumption that we can say that we have met the conditions of Europe or compliance with the laws of Europe and that life goes with each other during. We're not naturally satisfied with this condition. We would be wherever and where more satisfied if it were the reverse relationship, if we had fully arranged relations on the ground, that our operators were ready for a fierce competitive game, regardless of whether it was a carg, about pulling trains, about infrastructure, and that we already have the satisfaction that the existing situation could be regulated by this new law. I'll finish. It is unquestionable that the law is European, that it regulates many areas well, but our central question is only whether and when it will come to life, and whether this time as part of the sublegal acts will be respected by this law. It is primarily vital for our operators, for all our businessmen because it is market-economically oriented, but also for all passengers, so for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who will use the services of the Croatian Railways. Of course, responsibility for operationalisation, responsibility for what arises from this law and for bringing our operators into an inferior position is borne by the Government, or by the Proposer, whether it is a resorient ministry or by the Croatian Railways as a whole. We will support this law because of its orientation, but again we stress the fear of the very negative consequences this law will produce by its implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85730	Thank you. The word on behalf of the club HSP has a respected representative, Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85731	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The main objective of the adoption of this law, i.e. the main lever, is to move into the programme and dynamics of the privatisation of HH subsidiaries. That's the main goal no matter what you think, what you're saying. The HSP Club came into possession which previously did not know the documentation that was adopted, meaning the programme and dynamics of the privatisation of the dependent companies of the Croatian Railways while it was d.o.o. The programme was drafted by HZ and the decision to give consent was given once by Minister Kalmeta as Minister and for the second time as chairman of the Supervisory Board, which was given on 16 February 2006 where the dynamics and privatisations of these belonging to you were established, and you are keeping it from the Croatian public. And it starts again, and they say, according to the government's decision under the old Privatisation Act, even though Article 13 says a new Privatisation Act should be passed when it comes to HZ as adopted for INA. And the conclusion of this home is that the government was obliged by the 3rd month of 2006 to prepare a new Privatisation Act. So, the word is that certain properties are as interesting as the Hotel "Mursa" as I was saying, but you know who gets the Hotel "Mursa". And now he's moving on. Now, we're not going to get over this so easily. So here, here quietly again inn on state property, inn again the Croatian Privatisation Fund the one on which the state audit found that 95.17% was carried out illegally. And the decision is government too, and Kalmete's decision is once as Assembly and the second time Calmete as Supervisory Board, one, and the third time I guess as Minister. Maybe he suggested it all. So the decision is that it's going to be implemented. He says that, depending on the social property, HH will privatise its property under the applicable Privatisation Act and before the adoption of a special Privatisation Act, you do not think that this is prescribed by the provisions of Article 13. The Privatization Act. That HH's dependent societies intending to privatise and develop the programme and dynamics of their privatisation. This is since 16 February 2006 and will be done by the contract, it is already "bianco" contracts and lawyer Separovic is already walking around to sign it. Normally, who will represent the Fund rather than reliable lawyers, the lawyer's office Sheparovic. And now there is already a proposal for a contract and that will be done by the Croatian Privatisation Fund. So why are you selling us fog here when you come with this law? When I told you that at the end of the day the Central Station was going to give itself to someone and hand it over, it seems that's how you're going. So all these things and valuables, you've already started to house them in the area of these resorts that are located or, say, in Lovran. And we know these are all attractive resorts. And there are already views thrown and now, so under the cover of concern about all this you come with this law and the fundamental goal is your program and dynamics of privatization of dependent societies. Why didn't you give this to the Croatian Parliament? Why don't you set up a body to track it? Because we know how you are, how has privatisation been conducted so far in Croatia? And we know that the people who participated came back to the Fund and even to the Croatian railways because they know how to do it? Normally, under quotes, illegal. Therefore, the HSP Club cannot support this despite the fact that it is a law that would solve certain things because he is in the position of innkeepers. He's functioned to exempt what's worth. And that's the system of public capital investment. Then it's gonna stop. That's how it works here. First... Four societies, then daughters, and then further, further, further, away, that you can't follow at all what you want and how you want. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But make sure they follow your lead. That's why we can't support it. We will be interpelling about what is done quietly, behind the back of the Croatian Parliament, behind the back of Croatian citizens. And this is really something I couldn't believe would work like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85732	Thank you. Secretary of State Breglec. Here you go. ... Correction of an incorrect quote by Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85733	Thank you very much, thank you very much. I would correct the inaccuracy of fellow Kovacevic, who says this law is the only one in the function of privatisation. I'd say he's also in Privatisation. However, I note this because we were at the last debate in the 12th month when we were or in January when we talked about real estate there we talked about preparing privatisation. As for security, or as far as the Central Station and its sales are concerned, I think it is much more important that we put into question the safety of the railway station of the City of Zagreb, at least not to wait for a new accident for the train from Belgrade to come from... 100 people are killed on a station in Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's more important to think about how we can establish better security there. Especially since the number of passengers in the city of Zagreb on the railway station has increased significantly since it entered the traffic system of the city of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85734	Thank you. State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85735	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In this final address, let us look at a few things that have been highlighted in previous discussions. First of all, Mr. Mato Gavran, the esteemed parliamentary representative has presented several facts that I would like to refer to in particular. Of course we can't, I can't accept, on behalf of the promoter, the qualification that the law meets the form but not the content which is explained only in addition to the law that stems from the whole of the law. This law is particularly relevant in each of its provisions. It implements the Directives of the European Union directly in... A total of 3 Directives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is important, I can say essential for the future development of Croatian railways. As regards the trends mentioned in this same debate, it was found that the development of Croatian railways has been halted several indicators of exact easily verifiable I made in the previous address. And as for trends, the trend is that, we note on Croatian railways, the increase in transport, transport and freight indicators and passengers. Those rates are mostly two-digit. A little more than 10%, specifically 12% of freight transport last year, which is of course a good indicator that rail corridors and thus rail carriers, railway operators slowly return to those positions that they had up to the end of transport, the flows of goods in this area that occurred in the early 1990s when, from which point on, the Croatian railways did not recover by the quantity of goods transported because it is still far below the 50 per cent volume by measuring the amount of freight carried on corridors and on railways crossing Croatian territory. As far as investment is concerned, approximately twice as much investment in investment has been realised, in railway infrastructure over the past three years than it was in the same period just before. The concrete results of the restructuring process are also annual subsidies for Croatian railways, operating subsidies for Croatian railways less, on average EUR 250 million per year, and these funds are invested in investment in infrastructure and transport capacity. In total, in 4 years, the difference in savings on one side, and investment on the other side will amount to nearly a billion kuna. As far as building infrastructure is concerned, it will soon be under discussion at this High House, which will be called: The adoption of a national railway infrastructure building programme. A key document for the next medium-term period in which some 15 billion kunas of new investment in the infrastructure of Croatian Railways will be substantiated and proposed using both domestic and other sources of funding and of course specific funds that will be available to Croatia and which are already available to Croatia because, as we know, 30 kilometers of rehabilitation of Vinkovci-Tovarnik railways is about 35 percent of the ABE programme and is about the first realisation of the European Union's grants to the Croatian Railways. It is true that the age of the fleet, as you stated in the cars for 26 years, is 28 years in locomotives. Of course, there are objective needs, and there are objective possibilities. I was talking about trends in savings, investments that are higher, and this is about that ceiling of opportunities that meet the needs of Croatian railways at the moment and that enables and will allow the existence of an operator and the competitiveness of the corridor in a future liberalised environment. As far as road-crossing, rail-road crossings are concerned, there are about a thousand 580 of them in the Republic of Croatia. 1/3 is approximately protected by rail-road ramps. However, it is indicative that accidents that occur on Croatian railways in the highest number, in most events on open tracks and people suffer on open tracks, more than at rail-road crossings. And it is even more indicative that at train-road crossings, approximately the same number of people die as in places where there is no rail-road crossing protected by a ramp of course. Which, of course, says itself, cannot simply address this problem on the Croatian railways or on the preparedness of the infrastructure, but above all on the driving culture, which is one completely different and separate problem that I would not want to enter at this time. As for Mr Kovacevic's remarks, I can simply refuse any qualification given here. First of all, because this is, of course, a debate on the Security Act, this wasn't about privatisation, which was spent 100% of the time. However, we can also discuss this, although we also discussed it several months ago when we decided to take the status of public goods for the daughters of Croatian Railways who are going to privatise. Gentlemen, the daughters' societies are the property of the Croatian railways. Croatian railways structure management, supervisory and assembly according to Croatian laws have the authority to manage their property. And if it's necessary by accident, I can explain it very simply here. The simplest process possible which is also recognized and it's called out soercing when in the company you have wastelanding, and it's about railways, when you have catering, when you have catering, when you have security services, cleaners, you have endlessly large ways of making decisions of administration, etc., you have unnecessary costs and you go of course out soercing. The continuation of the process started 6, 7 years ago is when activities that are not the cord business of the Croatian Railways were singled out into private societies is exactly privatising this non-cord business. And that and nothing else happens in the Croatian Railways. Privatisation of dependent societies is the privatisation of non-cord businesses of Croatian Railways, which any economic textbook can confirm. And they'll write about him for sure, and that's all they need to read and apply. Of course it doesn't work behind your back in any way. And it doesn't work outside the law. It's 100% within the law. Of course, it is necessary to distinguish the privatisation of Croatian railways from the privatisation of Croatian railway companies. According to the Law on the Privatisation of the Croatian Railways must be privatised according to a special law, and the dependent societies of Croatian Railways singled out the non-cord business of the Croatian Railways are privatised as I have interpreted here, I hope that it is clear enough, as well as respected representatives and representatives of both the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85736	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on. ... Correction of an incorrect allegation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85737	So I'm correcting an incorrect quote about the program and the dynamics of privatisation. No privatisation can be carried out under the law that was stealing and you continue to do so, despite the fact that the Croatian Parliament has entrusted the Government, which has not been done, to pass a new Law on privatisation. You inn them, you have known as you have for... You know everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know everything and stop doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85738	Thank you. You're accusing someone of stealing. More convictions, and here it is. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85739	Final proposal of the Railway Safety Act. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The result? With 91 votes for and 4 abstentions accepted by the proposed law. I need a little follow-up, please, some colleagues and colleagues. Because there are some mistakes that can't be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85740	We're going to the 17th point. 17. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 577 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the laws of Articles 155 to 157 of the Rules of Procedure shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Justice, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary, Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85741	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here is the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register in the second reading. The Court Register Act was passed and entered into force in '95. A year. So we can talk about its 12-year application, with this law being changed from adoption to today, several times, five times more precisely. The latest amendments and additions to the law were in 2005. These amendments and additions to the law have indeed been removed from the shortcomings that were relevant in time for the collection of the documents necessary for the registration of the court register, as well as the shortcomings resulting from the lack of regulation of certain institutes, which led to problems in practice. For example, the accreditation procedure under official duty was not fully regulated. There was no sanction for applicants who did not pay the costs of the court fees and the costs of publishing the enrolment in "The People's Newspaper". And there was no regulated record of the dispute, which is very important, because he contributes... the principles of the public in the truthfulness and completeness of the data in this public book. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same law was then to be brought into line with the Law on Commercial Companies, the Law on Cooperatives and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, and the Law on Origin Number and the Law on Banks. All these changes have proved to be welcome in practice and today I think that with full right we can say that the court register being conducted otherwise in commercial courts can be considered a successful and truly fast register that is partly conducted in electronic form, the main book is kept in electronic form. So we can say that we have achieved the goal, that we have reduced the costs of enrolment, that we have simplified and accelerated the process of enrolling the team more than this entry into the trading register in the establishment of companies and in the start of economic activity is an integral part of the Government's HITRO project. It's just the information that's working. The registration of the entity when lodged in a commercial court of any commercial court in the Republic of Croatia shall take one or two days. There are exceptions to particularly complex cases that may occur for a week at the most. Therefore, there may be a legitimate question as to why new amendments and additions are now being proposed. The basic reasons can be summed up into two groups. One is the need to bring legislation into line, including legislation relating to this kind of register with the acquis of the European Union with the acquis, and another reason is actually connected partly to the first because this harmonisation is a very welcome upgrade that we should certainly do, and that is to build on in the technical and informational sense of this register on the one hand, in order to build with the application, and on the other hand, by leaving time and enabling other entities that may have an interest such as FINA, public notebooks, large legal entities today allow this desirable communication between interested entities exclusively through these modern means, therefore by electronic means. When we talk about harmonising with the acquis of the European Union, we are then harmonising these amendments and amendments to the law with one European Union document called the first European Parliament directive, and it concerns registers. Therefore, in the process of harmonising with the acquis, these amendments and additions to the law in accordance with that first Directive are foreseen, with the current keeping of the main data book in electronic form, by the management and publication of documents, as it calls the collection of documents also in electronic form, so that everything stored in the court and what entities contribute except for what is seen in the main book now and what they have attached will be accessible and visible in electronic form, and thus all of them will, without proving any legal interest that wants to know some information about the registration entity, be able to do so directly by making themselves known properly in that database. It also enables the communication of registration courts with I told public notaries and other authorised persons by electronic means. I note that it certainly won't be possible but tomorrow, it's left... for about a year and a half to prepare the subjects on the one hand and on the other hand, so that our application can be upgraded. [[You don't understand.]] And what I dare say is welcome to the European Union's Imput, and it will also contribute to legal certainty that all the information on a financial entity is, therefore, not only about its application for registration and the documents it contributes when it is entered but also its business, so its financial statements are located in one place, in the trade register as its place of entry. For this reason, it is now proposed that financial reports be submitted to the trade register. As these financial reports are already being submitted by the FINAs and which already has technical assumptions, human capacity to do so on the one hand, namely the obligation under special law, the Law on the Register of Annual Financial Reports to simplify the procedure itself, in order to remove the need for entities to deliver it in two different places, this law provides that in courts, commercial courts as arbitration courts, these data are to be supplied through the FINA. FINA, if these entities do not comply with their obligation or have not acted in accordance with the content of our report as prescribed by law, may request them to supplement that information, then FINA shall, according to its official duty, deliver to the court and then be exempt from paying any further fees and fees. It also provides for sanctions for those who do not comply with this legal obligation, so if they do not do so within three years and if they do not do so within a further period of time from the publication of the initiation of the registration procedure, and he does not do so... within that period of 6 months to have any property, a procedure will be carried out to delete such a entity from the trade register and we will actually contribute to one real discipline and erasure from the register so-called. "dead souls", so companies that are only registered actually own any property. In this direction, and since this is the second reading of the law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not accept the proposal which, the esteemed representative of Lek, which proposed to be the word: "propriety" in the process of erasing the word "reals" because the concept of property is certainly wider than the concept of real estate and it represents a set of things that some entity had and cannot limit itself to only property. For the sake of distinction, the obligations are not part of the assets but of its burden, so the notion of bookkeeping property differs from that which is legal. And yet another observation that has not been accepted, but not because there is no responsibility for illegal conduct, but because the state cannot indeed be held accountable for the very truthfulness of the data registration. Namely, the data is supplied by the entities and if they are implemented in accordance with the documents delivered, then indeed the State cannot be responsible for the truthfulness of the data but how... data recorded if it would have been demonstrated and demonstrated that the registration was due to illegal work or error of the authorised person, judge or civil servant, the state already under the general law, i.e. [[You don't understand.]] The law on courts is responsible for such unlawful treatment, so this type of registration does not need to be specifically prescribed. Dear ladies and gentlemen, so much for the amendments and additions, or the papers proposed by these amendments and the additions of the Court Register Act. According to the Government's assessment, this is a further improvement of this type of register, an important register that contributes to the legal certainty and transparency of the system when it comes to registration entities in companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85742	Thank you. The word on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club has a distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85743	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Regardless of this late afternoon watch, this really is one very important law that we have on benches today. I would say this is a law that brings extraordinary newspapers and this newspaper that I believe will follow some other actions before state authorities, such as judicial proceedings, both administrative proceedings and procedures before other bodies that have certain public authority. What is very important to say about the court register, it is an extremely important public book in which the subjects participating in economic life are enrolled, meaning the entities created by the Law on Commercial Society and some other laws, and it is very important that the moment of entry into the court register because then the legal entity acquires legal personality. He acquires legal subjectivity, means the ability to be the bearer of rights and obligations, so as a man of birth, the entry into the court register is here the birth of an economic operator who, after enrolment in the trade register, can take place on the market. If we just remember the history and the entire functioning of that court register in commercial courts, we'll see that it has one of its own developmental pathways since the 1990s since the Company Act where it was actually a relatively simple procedure to set up a company. It wasn't that at the time or so much, but as the transition affected us more and more, as people remained and had no business, as companies actually privatised, more and more people in some security went to start these companies and companies, regardless of whether they truly wanted to do business, truly on the market wanted to work. It was only by that principle that it was going to be good for me if we got into some kind of trouble. What did that lead to? It led to that court registries, and let's remember '93. the years when we had the Company Act, when we had an obligation to comply with the Company Act, when we got public notebooks as very significant participants in the whole process of setting up companies. Now '93. For years, commercial courts were flooded with bags of those requirements for compliance with these companies. Of course, there was a mass of those who had no business at all, and there were, of course, those who had legitimate reasons and who did business. However, after that, the situation has changed for much better, because today a company is founded when there is real and when there is a need when an individual really wants to do something, when it wants to perform on the market, then it approaches the establishment of a particular company, whether a company with limited liability or the like. The procedure was as we know, the public notary had a very significant role, there are today, certain acts could be and can be done today only as public records, but it took all together a lot of time. If we remember we had to collect a number of various certificates, testimonies, come to the notebook, then come to the court to hand it all over together, and all the expensive people were pretty depressed not only by establishing a certain commercial society but also by changing themselves, any seat, any person authorized to represent. It was all very, very complicated and complicated. However, today it is all very different and I can say that I am particularly glad that, in the term of office of this Parliament and of this Government, we have taken significant steps to simplify this process. Let's just remind ourselves, we've set up offices fast.HR where people can come in one place today to get all those certificates they need. And what is particularly important under this Act, as I would say, is that one very, very important newspaper, this Law allows us, with all these certificates, to come to the public notary, that the public notary draws up all the necessary documents for the establishment of a company or for some change and the most common click on the enter in its computer, all of this is transferred to the register of the competent commercial court. So, no more walking, no more going after confirmation of this, go after confirmation of that, come to court, wait. No, I don't. We here today for the first time in the communication of citizens with state bodies have the ability to communicate by electronic means. It is a very important thing, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like it to be recorded because it seems to me the way and the way that they will communicate both in the court procedure tomorrow and in the administrative procedure because that electronic communication means actually solving and the question, a very painful issue in court delivery procedures. How to deliver a verdict to someone, how to deliver a call? If he has a lawyer, he'll probably have to have a computer to communicate with the court in the future. Again click on the enter, the verdict is there, the deadlines are starting to flow and we've solved the problem. That sort of thing works already in some countries, and I believe it's not far or the day that we're going to have it. That's how we see it from this law. The Croatian Democratic Community Club on the trail of what this Law is about, and this is the most important change that I have said supports the adoption of this Law, the law is significantly improved and unambiguously, and of course, this law contributes to one of the greater legal certainty, one of the more quality business on our market. It is also very important that this newspaper will be published all these financial reports, because you know if you go into business with company A with company B it is very important to inform who we are in business with. So that someone doesn't cheat on us in this business, but simply to see if we're dealing with a serious entity or a non-serious person, to check his core capital, to see who the persons are authorized to represent, to see his financial results back a couple of years because it's all published, and all of this will be published in the register of competent trade courts. Therefore, I think that in this segment of the register courts we have really done a big job in these three years, and in the end it is a job that paves the way and suggests ways and for the other procedures in which we have also done a lot, but especially related to the judiciary, especially regarding the administration. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85744	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85745	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A fellow Bosniak said this was a big step. I agree. It's a really big step in how to communicate citizens with state authorities. At this point these are the legal persons of the company, so it's absolutely certain that this way of communication, the electronic means of communication in real time, will now become the predominant way of communication with the government tomorrow. Why? Because it enables instantaneousness, enables equality and enables the public to work. This proposal for a law is motivated by harmonising with European directives on the increasing scope of documents that can be presented and used in the work of the state administration in electronic form. As I said, the important thing is that it's fast, it's important that it's effective, as it's called HITRO.HR, but the most important thing of all is that it's open. Most importantly, everyone can check on their computer how, who's his business partner, how he's registered, what he's registered with, how he's doing business and so on. It'll be a good part if it's done as it says, it'll end up with unconscious and sloppy business. It is also an important electronic communication between courts on the one hand, public notaries on the other hand who have received certain powers in the business and authorised firms on the third hand. All three parties to this system when it works, if it works well, will be able to jointly control each other, whether this other party has done the job properly and contribute to faster business and more efficient and fairer business of the state. It is also important that financial documents, final accounts, audits, audit reports, etc. are found in the database. It's equally important that in the good number of laws that we've recently found in the procedure there is no beating. There are criminal provisions for one who does not comply with the obligations laid down in this law as provided for in the law. Unfortunately, those beatings are a ridiculous volume. The punishments of five thousand kunas, certainly for him who unwittingly and sloppyly does business, shall not hesitate in his intentions. It's a punishment worth two better dinners today. That's the good side. And they should be commended. They're really good. It is intended to improve the system and should be adapted to that intention. Some sides are questionable. The text of the law in Article 2 gives rise to an alternative of paper and digitalised data formats. Of course that alternative will work for a while. It's not questionable at all. But I think the law should also provide for a period by which the digitisation of data would become mandatory. Therefore, do not leave the possibility of a business entity choosing, whether it will have its entry in paper or digital form. There's an increase in the volume of FINA's affairs. Each year’s control shall, above all, be prescribed in Article 13. This control is not only the fact that the financial documentation has been submitted, but also the fact that it is complete, is it done as God commands? Such control will certainly increase the work and responsibility of FINA. Someone's gonna have to pay for it at the end of the ballad 'cause every job somebody's got to pay. This law costs money, and somebody's gonna have to pay for it. Most likely, they'll be users, who else would they be? Turning complete entry into electronic form, therefore, into a digital form under this law is a good option. I suggest that the Proposer consider making it a commitment. There are elements of this law that are a little strange. For example, the organisational forms of companies under the European scheme, the European Union scheme, are introduced into the law, and will only apply once we enter the European Union, as prescribed in Articles 5 and 11. The moment we enter the European Union, direct regulations of the European Union will apply, and this will be perfectly unnecessary. I don't see why this is standing here, except to show ourselves to good students who there are teachers, so here's what we're going to put in there so that we know we know about it, and we're not going to use it. Now of course we won't apply because it doesn't agree with our entire legal framework. The law is called the Court Register Act. And the text is about registration courts. We have municipal courts, we have county courts, we have criminal courts, we have no court records in our Court Act. I know what you're thinking. Any court that registers the company is a court of law. But that term doesn't exist in the Law of Courts. I don't think it should exist here either. I don't see why it couldn't write like that fact is, the court register, the register of this and that court. Because registration courts don't exist. We're getting into a lexical and legal mess. We don't really know what you're talking about when there's an expression, so oneness is very useful. What I think is inadmissible is something that, in this proposal, there is no amendment to the law. It is unacceptable to refuse to return the famous article 41a. in which debtors could not be entered in the Court Register. The proposal's explanation is that it would destroy speed, destroy the system and do not fit into these intentions that the bill is about. I'm not convinced of that at all. System information is perfectly safe to overlap databases and extract from debt databases, primarily to the state. Data on those companies that they are, and owners of companies that now want to register. I think computerization, digitization and electronic processing of these systems would actually make things easier. It's easier to figure out who's in debt right now than it was when things were only handled paper. I see that the Government refuses this proposal to include the article, but we consider it our own obligation to state the position of the Croatian People's Party club in order to return that article to 41a. It has contributed to fairer business in the Republic of Croatia and to removing at least part of what was once called economic crime, today it is called unconscious business, as it is but we know who it is. About those who shut down one company because they stayed in debt there and open others, start with a clean table and a full bag at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85746	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja. Dear Representative Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85747	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, which the Government sent to this second reading after the first reading. It is a law that introduces a number of newspapers in the area of the court register and will certainly increase security, transparency in economic... transport, better protect the authenticity of the documents, disable the counterfeiting of the documents and establish a new quality of communication in the court register through electronic media, which is very important when we know that the court register is a very important register in which legal entities are entered who, by the act of enrolment, acquire and legal capacity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, the Court Register Act came into force 12 years ago in 1995. Since then, several times have been changed and recent changes have been made in 2005 when the shortcomings that were relevant in time were removed for the collection of the necessary documents for registration in the register, insufficient regulation of individual institutes leading to problems in practice and inconsistencies with permanent important regulations. These amendments increase the efficiency of enrolment in the court register, they leveled legally, in the rights and obligations of the domestic and foreign natural persons. And what is important is the implementation of the HItro HR project, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has brought in with the aim of enabling entry entities to start economic and entrepreneurial activities as quickly as possible, simplerly as possible. But there has been further harmonisation of this law with these changes and additions. There's a two-way synchronization. The first harmonisation of the law with the legal gains of the European Union and the upgrade of the register in a technical sense, with a view to establishing better communication through electronic devices, so that we can mostly recognise these changes in several groups. First, with the main data book being kept in electrical form so far, it is envisaged to keep and publish documents which are attached with the application also in electronic form and which is achieved that anyone, without proving any legal interest, can have insight into documents and data. In fact, it's enough to have a computer and to get all this information from their own home or work space. Secondly, these amendments create the basis for the communication of the Register Court on the one hand and the public notary and other authorised persons through electronic media. Surely this will speed up this process of enrolment in the court register and I think this is one of the very important, important, quality changes that this law introduces. Furthermore, the obligation to deliver financial documents for registration in the court register is introduced through financial agencies. The financial agencies shall, without delay, notify the court that complete financial documents have been submitted within a period of time and that the court may also sanction the non-implementation of this provision. It is certain that these provisions will establish the principle of transparency of enrolment and the protection of trust in the register itself. The court’s conduct in the case shall also be governed by the way in which the court has acted in the event that the registration entity failed to comply with the obligation to hand over the financial documents for three years consecutively. Therefore, Article 70 of the applicable law stipulates that such bonds will be deleted from the court register. However, since registration courts do not have a mechanism and powers to verify and compare the business of certain entities in this proposal, this article is fully amended and harmonised, and it is allowed the court to implement these provisions as well. Finally, I can say that these amendments allowed the entry into the court register of certain legal persons internationally such as the European Trade Society and the European Interest Association. It is clear that these provisions are being delayed until Croatia enters the European Union. Whether these provisions should have been introduced into this law or we cannot discuss it, but they do not alter and reduce the value of these amendments. And it is to conclude that these amendments to the law in the court register will increase security in the court register, that it will increase security and transparency in economic legal traffic, that better and better quality protection of the authenticity of the documents, prevent counterfeiting, and that what is most important is one quality communication between registering courts and authorised entities. I think this law should be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85748	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85749	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Here, in the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, I regrettably have to repeat the same remark that has not been corrected since the first reading to this final proposal. Namely, here is the proposer, i.e. In an explanation, or in an assessment of the situation on basic issues to be regulated by this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has called for its own, to implement the HITRO HR project, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as early as 2004 or with the aim of enabling entities to start economic and entrepreneurial activities as quickly and as easily as possible, of course including reducing the number of necessary approvals and collecting them in a small number of places. It is noteworthy that this part of the activity itself, therefore, was also before this National Programme, which was the fastest in the entire process of starting a business. But every effort that speeds up and relatively fast procedure is to greet. And certainly it is also an irrefutable fact that many and the subjects are praised that thanks to the "Quick HR" project, it is possible to start economic activity really quickly. However, what it draws attention to and what is not good for the state or for the worker and then in general or for the state itself is that those safety valves that have prevented as many irresponsible entities that previously operated illegally in such a way as to remain in debt both to the state and to the workers. So one abuse was made possible to re-establish the company, the new company, and remain in debt, thus playing the claim of the state and workers themselves. Which then becomes a social problem tomorrow, and the state has to finance them. And this successful businessman who happens to start new companies every once in a while, according to the project "Hurry HR". I think that we can be quick and effective for conscientious subjects whether they're natural persons or legal persons, but also to prevent such abuse. It is only now seen that our media reported that large abuses are precisely in the implementation of the "Quick HR" project, which is quite unnecessary. Because only with one provision can we solve the problem. That the company cannot be established and neither the project "Hurry HR" nor the regular project makes it impossible for that person to start a new company if it is obliged to the old company. Such a way, then, but many resort to it when? After a long-term trial, after long-term executive proceedings and when the execution is impertinent and inevitable then he finely shuts down, liquidates the company and establishes the next day a new company innocent of all claims against the state and workers. I don't understand why this is so reluctant or why this norm has been liquidated. Two norms. We were told at the time when it disappeared from the law that it was precisely because it was still possible to play the mechanism. Yeah, well, any norm can be played. But as difficult as that was the condition, the mechanism, or towards such persons. So most unfortunately, the benefits of implementing the HR project are exactly what they have. Because those who are so far, they could register the company in 15, 20 days. The justice system was the most effective. All right, we'll say hello if that's possible in three days. But the damage is just as much as we're going through this project. Good information solutions are unfortunately not implemented or these norms are not put into effect on the day of entry into force of the whole law, but an exception is made for such norms to enter into force only 2000 and, in fact, on the day of their entry into force when the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. For these provisions concerning the registration of the European Society "Societas Europe" or the European Economic Interest Association, it is quite understandable. But why this kind of thing, this kind of good rule of law, which is a merger with public notebooks. So the whole Internet communication that makes it easier to work has no reason to do so before we boast and succeed in internetising certain services that they only take effect then. And which is why their application is delayed here in Article 31. Last one? Equally in a sense that draws attention so that it doesn't happen, it shouldn't happen. In the light of certain provisions, it is said, it is said that, in this way, the application of the law will achieve better protection of the authenticity of the documents, which is true. Disabling the counterfeiting of the same, but this is in no way true or not true. Reduction of expenditure on office materials and environmental protection Whereas the gradual paper as a medium will be abandoned by the data medium and by the ID. One Austria that has an almost complete state administration made up of modern communications and technology has not left the reserve way. It is a security method that must always be written in writing, i.e. where the paper must be the medium bearer of the information. He's, he's always spare and he can't leave. As in running all the registers starting with queens born, married but also with this. So here's what I'm doing. I'm just distracting. I believe it won't happen, that it won't happen, and that's why I think an argument like this is unnecessary. So here's the main point, it's a shame that this main observation, where those who abuse the right instead of narrowing down to them, is that we're still spreading space to them in this way and it's a pity that, with such a lack of such a provision as one safety valve, an entire concept of good changes and the addition of the Court Register Act has been violated.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85750	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85751	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The colleagues and colleagues, the respected representatives of the applicant, simply raises one question when it comes to the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register. What is the purpose of a register of entities that appear on a particular market? Why does the state need a register? Why are we changing him? Well, right now, the register needs for the safety of those who appear on a particular market. It needs their legitimacy, therefore these legal entities themselves, and it needs very precise information on who represents them and to what extent. Why do I even say that? In order to support the thesis of my colleague Ingrid that this elaborate registry opens up the possibility of manipulation in those intentions that the legislator is seeking to achieve. So those who intend to play the registration court and illegally perform on the market can send their own company into bankruptcy and immediately establish a new and business through it. That's not the goal we should approve of. So, I propose that even for this law, the Proposer consider whether a provision should be put in place that no new company can be established, a new company, a new entity if it is already one of those founders in bankruptcy. That this is so very shy of this law in Article 3, I think, in Article 3(6), and now it will be paragraph 7 or 8. I do not know each court responsible for the authenticity of the enrolment. If you ask now, or those who suggested what this means. Does this mean that the name of the founder, the person representing and representing the legal person who has registered on the market is authentic and the financial report that the State is putting into the register? Can market participants rely on him, on him, or on him? I can't because the state doesn't guarantee it, it doesn't guarantee it materially for the correctness of the entry data. He doesn't guarantee and he doesn't guarantee. Although it is said that the principle of public, the principle of transparency, the principle of urgency in action, therefore the urgency is considered to be accurate. But the state does not introduce the principle of responsibility for data in the public register. As a result, I believe that, in my court, it is a deliberate failure, intentional failure to disable registration by the same founders who have already sent their company into bankruptcy, a failure which, in an unsettled rule of law, when judgments from courts are pending for several years, enables operators to participate in the market, market or market of the Republic of Croatia for speculative reasons. It's simply inadmissible for us to just go over it. And I would like to conclude that, once again, the Proposer will consider voting on this law whether a new entry should be resolved by its own amendment if the founder has already sent his old subject to bankruptcy and bankruptcy takes place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85752	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85753	I would just like to say to my colleague, Leko, that this law makes it possible to actually play the court and the one who borrowed a certain company, took her into bankruptcy so that she could open a new one immediately. In part, it's actually formal and exactly what you said. However, what I consider to be a problem in that I do not think it is a problem for the court, I think it is a problem for some other procedures and other state bodies. It's already connected to criminal responsibility, it's related in principle to the activity of a state's attorney, the police to look at such things. And this law has made one transparency possible, because you now have the ability to actually make financial reports public. This means that when you enter a business relationship with me that you will click on the Internet nicely and see my financial statements whether I am over-indebted, I am correct or I am not correct. That's not how it's been so far. You know? So that statement in Article 41a where someone said he wasn't in charge, and these things to me, it's completely worthless. And I'm going to ask one other question, practically. Let's simulate that the two of us are in a business relationship, that I've totally led you astray that I have nothing, that I'm in charge of my company and I'm opening a new asset company tomorrow, I don't know what. And you now according to the Company Act you have the full right of me as the founder of this new company to go on the confiscation of my assets, which includes the founding stake in that new company and you have the possibility of actually having your claim that you did not charge in, from that company that I brought into bankruptcy and you have the opportunity to charge out of this. So I think this non-transparency issue doesn't really need to be connected to the Court Register Act. It's a matter of police, it's a matter of state's attorney's office, it's ultimately a question and morale in the business of our market's entities. I think that's it, and in any case it's a law like this, and that morale is going to develop and reach one level that it's actually going to be as unimaginable out there as you take the company into bankruptcy and open another company tomorrow. And in our case, it's more partly because the police are not responding, which is not responding to the state's attorney's office, tax administration and other state bodies. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85754	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85755	Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic, your good intentions can often be taken to hell. Therefore, the situation, the real situation in Croatia, is that there is no spot for the court, that we wait for the verdicts after a few years, that the morale of business, God forbid we can invite him to him tomorrow. But until we get to it, and you yourself said that in a formal sense there was a possibility. If we add that we have a founding stake of 20 thousand kuna, and the state does not guarantee materially, it does not guarantee that the registration data are correct. So my intention was indeed to take a realistic look at the situation in which the Republic's economy is now, which is located and what is threatening us from this particular enrolment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85756	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, five minutes, Mr. Representative of the Crown Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85757	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It is just before us that the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law in the Court Register that shows that indeed the Parliament has approached dynamically one continuity and harmonisation of all those needs with everyday practice, and especially when it comes to the fact that we want to bring legislation into line with the European acquis, and even more when we want to enable every entrepreneur, every craftsman, anyone who wants to engage in the registered activity to be entered in the court register. It is precisely the intensity of this bill to increase the efficiency of enrolment in the court register, to equalise the rights and obligations of domestic, foreign, legal and natural persons and to reduce the costs of enrolment and to ultimately speed up the procedure. Of course, the desire for further harmonisation has also resulted in the application of this proposed legal text. I will firstly highlight what every practitioner is torturing, i.e. in what way to specify which documents are particularly financial needed in order to make entry into the court register in any way and at what speed and what economy. It is therefore tax-based that these are individual consolidated financial reports according to accounting rules. If the obligation to publish these reports is also made public and in what way the relevant audit opinions are also published and that, in addition to the main applications, all documents are applied in electronic form in order to really enable anyone, without proof of legal interest, will often in practice lead to a difficult administrative procedure in order to make an insight into the documents, all those documents that are attached to the application, report, so that direct insight into the document collection can already be done by simple clicking on the computer key. It's beautiful and visibly depicted right in the explanation. Of course, the effectiveness and what is said in the transitional and final provisions that will be chosen by the Court of Justice and the way in which the conditions and means of achieving this law of the intended electronic communication of authorised persons with that court will be laid down, I suggest that it be certainly one of the major commercial courts in the Republic of Croatia in order to educate all the necessary participants in this application. Of course, the financial agency and its important role are that all those financial documents are handed over to the court register through the financial agency and that the financial agency is obliged to return to the applicant of those documents which are found not to be necessary. The financial agency which is currently dealing with financial affairs will be very precise, safe and quick to determine what is missing, and will then notify the Register Court without delay that complete financial documents are committed within the deadlines required for this. I would also like to point out that the final and lecturing of the proposed legal texts is done in a way that introduces as many Croatian names as possible, for example: a copy – a copy, and what is still important to point out that the registration court will delete the entity at the request of the tax authority if the registration entity does not have any property and that the registration court will, under official duty, carry out the process of eradicating the company if it does not act on the legal obligation of those three years and does not hand over its financial documents. Criminal provisions are also very precise as to in which case a fine will be paid and how to eventually force the applicant to comply with all those laws of intended action. Therefore, this draft law will certainly be accepted by the Croatian Democratic Community.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85758	Thank you very much. In conclusion, Mrs. Snježana Bagic, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85759	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Finally, just a few words allow me to refer to some of the remarks made to this text of the law, even suggestions in terms of its improvement. We generally all agree that when it comes to improving the process, by simplifying the process, increasing transparency as someone here has said the openness of the system, which is more than welcome. Of course, we all strive for our system to be particularly reliable and fast. Here was the remark that I think of the respected representative Vuljevic as saying that in terms of law, there was only one explanation. The Registrar Court is used as a term because the 95th Court Register Act is already written that, in the sense of this law, the term ‘registration courts’ is used in the context of this law when we talk about trade courts that run registers, trade registers. As regards the upgrade of this system and the increase in the number of documents to be made available to all interested entities, and without proof of specific legal interest in electronic form, the most important thing in addition to the collection of documents is the delivery of financial reports. The financial reports are documents which are already under a special other law, which is the Law on the Register of Annual Financial Reports, which are obliged to be supplied by commercial entities, provided by FINAs in order for someone interested in the business of an entity other than its existence and other than the basic data on it, to gain insight into and into its financial operations, and to make that information visible, accessible and in the place of registration where they acquire legal personality, hence, in the Register Court of Commerce and therefore, because this is already a special obligation prescribed, and that is why FINA is already being made available to facilitate the conduct of the entities of such financial statements, it is proposed that these data be forwarded to the Court under official duty and that it will not constitute any additional financial burden, and certainly not a binding obligation for those who already have such obligations. The question has been asked why is it proposed... from a year and a half when trade registers, i.e. register courts, work well, that is correct. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, in order for the system to have only 12 commercial courts to prepare for this new task, so for the informational publication and collection of documents and financial reports, it is necessary to upgrade it, not by any means, for courts, or for certain, for a year and a half. However, the fact that this Law allows for integration and will actually be obliged to do so by all public notebooks and other authorised legal entities. In Croatia we have just over 270 public notebooks and unfortunately the fact is that they can't do it right now, they can't easily connect to the registration courts and therefore it's necessary to make one such delay for about a year and a half, i.e. by 1.1.2009, more specifically. And finally let me look back at what every time we talk about amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register, i.e. the transparency of the system mentioned, which is our common desire to question how we come to this goal, which is that we have legal entities that work neatly in the system and that we have a system that really does not effectively prevent the abuse of legal entities and economic operators and that would make it impossible for entities who are unconsciously operating, who leave large debts, who force companies into bankruptcy not to enter into, they are not allowed to be re-established. There seemed to be one solution, we were hoping that it would be an effective solution to that certificate which, according to the amendments and additions to the Court Register Act a few years ago... entities, which were confirmed that neither he nor the company in which he has shares or shares has outstanding obligations, has outstanding debts and provides confirmation of the authorised bank in which he carries out payment transactions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the figures show that even such a confirmation has not actually reduced the number of entities to be entered, or entities that do not meet their financial obligations, or which force the company into bankruptcy. That is where the fundamental question can be asked, what was the purpose of these certificates and how they even received them. In our case, the answer seems to be simple. Why? Because it is proposed that this too was prescribed by law, excuse me, to submit data, to confirm that a company or company in which someone has shares and shares has no outstanding obligations. However, the books of the shares are kept elsewhere, and unfortunately the data on which the entities, which are the owners, are simplistic, i.e. who is the shareholder or holder of the shares in a company, are kept in the book of shares. So for this reason, in the end line, this is why the 2003 amendments to the 2003 Company Act, more specifically the articles... and 412 has been proposed and prescribed and adopted in this House that, in order to change the ownership structure of the underlying capital, the relevant situation in the book of business shares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these data are not available to anyone else or to the court register. So the question arises how can this confirmation even in any way prevent entities from... if there are more like companies or... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] more companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can simply provide information only on companies that truly meet their obligations properly, the rest remain unfulfilled. Therefore, the question has really been raised why when we did not get the goal and purpose with such certificates to insist on something that might have a counterproductive effect, and we did not know that there was any... effect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, there is a need to insist on this, and the question here is what needs to be done by the Registrar Court, and what other system institutions including, of course, the application, the conduct of criminal proceedings, infringement proceedings, and audit procedures to force our economic operators, together with all other factors of society to operate neatly and knowingly in economic transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85760	Thank you very much. Synchronising "%s"
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85761	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Court Register Act. I am voting on P.Z., and I am voting on the final draft of the law. We can vote. The result? With 82 votes for and 13 abstentions and one against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85762	And I suggest we do one more item on the agenda, this 18th. And I call on committee representatives to call committee meetings because there are a lot of agenda points that have not been discussed on boards, some are not even scheduled, and some have been tried and failed for various reasons. That's why we'll continue tomorrow's session after we finish this agenda at 10 o'clock so the boards have time to do it. We move on to — 18. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Prison Penalty Act, First Reading, P.Z. No. 645. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I don't know if it's exactly this board, but it's on the questionnaire here. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Ms. Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85763	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is before you in the first reading of the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Penalty of Prisons. Our current law on the execution of a prison sentence was passed in 2001. It has since been slightly less changed in scope twice, but its adoption in 2001 really represented... the prison system and enable the establishment and execution of prison sentences in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with international conventions adopted by the Republic of Croatia and then the applicable European prison rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, after 6 years of application of this Law, it has proved necessary to amend and supplement this Law further. I would estimate that these amendments and additions of the law are moving in three basic directions. One reason for amending the law is to bring it in line with a series of new laws, i.e. amending and supplementing laws that have been adopted and entered into force in the meantime and which must be followed by the Law on the Resolution of Penalty, and it is necessary to amend this law in order to comply with these laws. The second concerns precision, therefore, is a clear provision of authority and the actual and local jurisdiction of the judge of enforcement. And the third round of changes is, in fact, proved to be in practice necessary, clearer and more detailed to prescribe some of the ways in which prison sentences are solved, or how some of the rights or conveniences of the prisoners are achieved. As regards the first round of these amendments, therefore, those relating to its alignment with the amended legislation, let me just mention, for example, the Law on Executive Procedure, the Law on the Parley Procedure and the Accountability Act, which extends the possibilities of pronunciation... to other judicial proceedings, other than criminal proceedings and which is why this law should be brought into line with the amendments to those laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, a new Law on civil servants relating to prison system officials came into force, and it is in fact uniquely governing the rights and obligations of all civil servants, without exception. Therefore, the Law on the execution of a prison sentence with regard to the exercise of official relations must be brought into line with this law. It is also due to the specificity of operations carried out in penitentiary and prisons, administration and prison systems, the administrator of the penitentiary and the prisons of the special decision-making authority in relation to the prisoners and employees, so it is not necessary to supplement an article which prescribes its powers or prescribes that he has the authority of the Head of State Administration unless otherwise prescribed by this law. Then, in order to comply with the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, the provisions of this Act should be aligned with the provisions of this Act regarding the referral of a person to a psychiatric institution in such a way that the judge does not directly refer to the person but initiates the procedure for reference. It is also necessary to bring the law in line with the Law on Courts, where it is prescribed that judicial bodies are provided for in law enforcement. With regard to the provisions relating to the judge of enforcement, the judge of execution was a new institute that was first introduced into our legal system in 2001. Therefore, it decides or controls the reference of a convicted person to the maintenance of a prison sentence, the manner of enforcement and punishment, the possible violation of the right and the similar measures carried out in prisons which could potentially lead to infringements of his rights. However, the application has shown in fact that here it is necessary to specify, in particular, the actual and local jurisdiction of the judge of enforcement, because certain doubts and questions have arisen in practice, and these amendments and additions need to be removed. For example, there was a misunderstanding in the application of Article 17 of this Act, when deciding on a request for judicial protection, which is otherwise decided by a judge, whether it is a special legal institute or whether it refers to the judicial protection of the rights of prisoners prescribed in other provisions of this Act. Then who decides to suspend the prison sentence for the death of a prisoner, alter the prisoner's pardon? As in the case of a person who has endured a sentence in the capacity of detainees? Then, which judge takes the actions and makes a decision at certain stages of the procedure from the initiation of the prison sentence to the suspended sentence? So, which judge would be local authority? Likewise, these amendments to the law are prescribed who exactly is considered to be party to the proceedings brought before the judge of enforcement? In terms of how to execute prison sentences, these amendments to the law are further specified in fact by the provisions of the laws relating to the programmes for the execution of prison sentences and its contents, because otherwise it is being nurtured and that is... The law to execute prison sentences is individualized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that the content of the program is determined according to the prisoner, according to his abilities, the affinities of course and the weight of the work. And to allow its review in accordance with the prisoner's behaviour and assessment of the performance in fulfilling the obligations set out in the individual programme. The prisoner's employment is something that is certainly desirable, depending on his interest as well. It's his right. But it is considered, not only in Croatia, but generally desirable way of resociating and preparing for future inclusion of life, in everyday life outside of prison. It is now proposed to allow those prisoners who are sentenced to prison for up to one year, to carry out their right to work in the follow-up of work with the employer or by continuing their own activities. It is also proposed that prisoners can also be educated. I can carry out a subsequent education during a prison sentence. It is organized independently or with work. But when organised with the work that then receive cash compensation for that education only if work cannot be provided at the same time. Provisions relating to health care are also amended. Of course, the issue of their health care is not at all questionable. However, it is determined that if a prisoner already has a right to health insurance, then that health insurance is carried out and goes to burden, protection of pardons, goes to the burden of his insurance. But if, of course, he's medically insecure, then it goes to the prison system. Similarly, in order to prevent illegal actions during the maintenance of the prison sentence, trade in such as theft, bribery, racketeering, etc., it is proposed to amend the provision of the law, more precisely Article 127, which is prescribed in a way that the prisoner can receive money from whom money can be deposited and deposited, and to limit and spend money with compulsory savings intended to secure funds after leaving for freedom. From the changes that are also proposed,... it will be prescribed to specify more precisely the behaviours which constitute the prisoner's strict procedure and to extend the time limit for the conduct of the decision-making procedure by appeal, and in this direction the provisions of this law are also amended. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The provisions relating to the parole of prisoners are also laid down, the composition of the parole committee, to which a decision on parole can be made, since it may contain different obligations for prisoners. Therefore, better coordination is needed for all those to control the prisoner during parole. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I tried to be as brief as possible in my presentation. These are the amendments and additions that have been shown necessary to ensure, on the one hand, more effectively the implementation of the prison sentence, on the other hand, more precisely determine the powers of the competent authorities, in that I mean not only prisons but, for example, judges and other institutions that control his parole and to better determine on the one hand the rights of the prisoners and the guarantees of their protection and, on the other hand, prevent their abuse of those rights, for example, the introduction of some illegal assets. It's usually done to try to bring in drugs or escape funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85764	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85765	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the last session, we had a report on the state and work of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2005. In the debate on this report we have given some assessments and in fact we all seem to have unanimously concluded that our system works with great effort and with great consumption of the people we have in the system. We have a relatively decent legislative framework, but that material framework is a little narrow and fundamental conclusion that we have made and that as much material conditions as possible are improved. And I hope to see that from the 2006 report on the work of these institutions. What does this law offer us? This law is, as the State Secretary has said, in compliance with the Criminal Procedure Act, with the Executive Act, with the bankruptcy law, with the Law on Procedural Procedure, because, of course, these laws also provide for the possibility to impose prison measures under these procedures. It is therefore very important that this law be brought into line and that all those solutions offered by these laws follow. Also, this law regulates the issue of official relations, in line with the law that we have already passed. There are also clearer and much more precise local and actual competences of authorised persons, meaning judges. Then, the State Secretary mentioned in a more precise and better way the issue of health care was regulated. Then, also the question of this compensation that is due to work or to education and also very important are issues relating to the security itself in the maintenance of the prison sentence, which is regulated in particular by Articles 26 and 35. It is also more precise that the descriptions of the work are detailed, which is also important for these descriptions to be applicable. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law in its first reading. The law is necessary in any case until the second reading and nomotechnically arranged, I think it was also on the Committee on the Legislatives of Certain Suggestions which I believe the Proposer will respect. What I would like to say, it seems to me, regardless of this first report that we had at the last session of this law, that it would be very good for the Parliament as a legislator to get at least every four or five years an even more complete report because it is essential to us in principle that we have information and that we know what is actually coming out of these institutions, whether these are people who have endured the sentence of prison, whether they have managed to return to normal life, or whether they are people who have problems, whether they are returnees in committing crimes. And only then will we be able to make certain decisions, and in that sense we can change the laws if we have all that information. These are very high-quality reports that we get every year but they take care of the basic data as much as I don't know how tightly there were, how many fugitives, how much money was spent, how many people were employed in the system and all that. And that's what we've assessed all these years that the system, in relatively modest material conditions, works within the limits that are entirely tolerable. But to say, we know exactly what's needed in the system to change, we need to know what's coming out of that system. It's question number one to me whether these people can handle themselves tomorrow in life or whether they still have problems. It is very important, there is a provision here in the law which is very important to me, which is Article 16 which amends Article 69 and says, "In order to fulfil the purpose of executing the prison sentence set out in Article 2 of this law for a prisoner, an individual programme for the execution of a prison sentence is adopted. The implementation programme shall consist of pedagogical, working, health, psychological, social and security procedures appropriate to the characteristics and needs of the prisoners, as well as appropriate types and possibilities of the penitentiary or prison. I think that's basically what this whole process is all about. Are all these elements well affected and what we end up with after someone endures and executes that prison sentence, what we get out of that facility? So I think it's in some future one proposal that needs to be considered and the law is already quite acceptable in first reading and definitely this law has three characteristics. It offers one more efficient system, it offers one in a security sense a more quality system. And of course, law as law is more precise than it is so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85766	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85767	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. After that rather depressing report on the situation in the prison system that we had the opportunity to hear and talk about a few months ago, this is an optimistic document that seeks to improve the situation, bring together a few laws, first of all bring the Penal Code into line with the executive law, the Law on Courts and some other laws. And the situation here is perfectly clear, such a law needs to be passed right now. Since it's about first reading, I'm going to say some principled remarks that I think should be taken into account in harmonising with the bill's proposal and making the final text. In fact, they get weirdly mixed up, strangely mixed up general views about what is a prison sentence and what is actually going to be achieved, so some ideas about the penalty of the prison of the most liberal systems in the West appear at the same time in the article for the article with sharp repression and where I need to and where there seems to be no justification for it. For example, Article 3 abolishs the separation of convicts to prison sentences of opiates from special departments or special prisons even though for the time being, in practice, they have been implemented. These people were in prisons and in the institutions of this guy with the other convicts. But it is good that this provision is completely deleted. Resociation of these people and their healing may well depend on staying among people who are not addicts. Articles 19 and 20 refer to cash compensation. In Article 19 on cash compensation to those prisoners who do not have other incomes. Because it sounds humane, it sounds nice, it sounds good. I just don't understand why these people get paid. For what? What did they do so they should get cash if they don't earn it in prison? They committed a crime, and that's why they're there. On the other hand, the law also also posts the draft law also post a cash compensation for convicts who are educated during the maintenance of the sentence. If they don't, there's no way they can do that. Most of the time, if they don't, they'll get a refund because they're educated. We recently discussed the Law on adult education in which it is beautifully clear and loudly states that this education will pay for who arrives if someone arrives. Maybe state, maybe local self-government. If they don't, then I'm a goner. Now a man who hasn't done anything wrong in his life except not finishing school will pay for that schooling. If he goes to jail, he'll finish school and someone else will pay him for finishing school. It seems to me that liberalism has gone far too far. On the other hand, Article 21 speaks of health care and it is decided that healthcare for convicts is the same as compulsory health care for all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is good, fair, liberal. All citizens of the Republic of Croatia no matter what they have done and how they have sinned have the right to health. It's not our invention. I know an example of one of our men who went shopping at the time of the war in the United States and tried to buy it from an FBI agent. Of course, he ended up in prison, and in a review that was required when he entered prison, he was found to have a very severe brain tumor. That the operation costs a couple hundred thousand dollars. But as he had already entered the system, the American State paid for the operation, the man was cured and after years the judge who sentenced him to prison congratulated Christmas and New Year's Day for surviving. There are also good limitations in the law. So the repression raised to a higher level because of practical needs. Articles 25 and 26 discuss visits and phone calls. Restrictions have been introduced, as the proposer himself says, to limit the possibility of abuse of one and the other institutes. So abuse of visitation. On the one hand, exploiting, disabling the use of prisoners and displaying them in the media and so on. On the other hand, make it possible for the prison administration to limit phone calls, to interrupt phone calls if it considers it bad, so that it could result in some negative consequences and so on. It introduces the ability to control drug and alcohol consumption at any time. If we know which population well ends up in our criminal institutions, I think it is necessary and good and that this way of limiting calls on the prisoner's rights will only contribute to their well-being. The unnecessary restriction seems to me to be shown in Article 18 where the work of prisoners is being talked about and that this work is actually a way of resociating and that prisoners should not, that prisoners should not be paid pension insurance. If a prisoner works in such a way that he has no right but a small one, we know that it is a small amount of natural compensation, then that work is not the work of man but is best expressed in what was once called a severe prison sentence. It was called a prison. Robbie because a man worked slavely to support that sentence. And I don't think there's absolutely any excuse for the current situation in which pension insurance is paid out of that prisoner's earnings to change the situation. It is a strange provision in Article 17. The reasons are clear, Article 17 provides that the prison sentence can be carried out so that the prisoner works with his employer. So far, that's been possible with fines up to six months. The proposer here proposes to extend the deadline for a year. It's clear why. The prisons are overloaded. There's no place in prisons. This is a way to dissipate the little system, but the question of who will fall under the provisions of this article. Is it justifiable that the man who was convicted of robbery and possible because of the easy circumstances of getting a year for that man to continue working as if nothing had happened? All in all, the Croatian People's Party will support this law in its first reading with the hope that some of these notes will be realised until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85768	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS club, Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85769	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the amendment and addition of the Prison Penalty Act in the first reading. Of course, we're going to look back at some things that we think should be done or maybe changed. And we believe that the motioner will accept those remarks. In this section, I'd like to talk about one part of the convict or the prisoner, which is addicts. Pursuant to the amendments and amendments to this law, Article 3 is deleted from Article 4 of the existing law, the existing Article 20. And now let's ask ourselves a question as to what part of it is. That part refers to drug addicts, and says: "According to prisoners who have been sentenced to mandatory treatment against addiction, who are involved in the socio-therapy procedure before coming to a sentence, are being punished in a special penitentiary or in a special department of the penitentiary.". This item is deleted. And now we're wondering what that means. Of course, we looked at the reasoning of this article and according to the reasoning of this article, it was indeed the proposal to delete this article so that it would not be a legal obligation to refer to convicts who entered the socio-therapy programme prior to the prison sentence, therefore not to refer to separate departments, but rather to propose that they should be sent to the penitentiary, which means to the environment as it is and in which the environment unfortunately would not achieve the second effect of the prison sentence. Because prison is a repression and it has a repressive effect. However, prison punishment also has an educational effect. We want to draw the messager's attention that this change is even against the purpose of punishment, especially when it comes to addicts. In doing so, I keep in mind those perpetrators of the crimes of addicts who committed a crime for the cause of absolute addiction. Addiction is a disease. But they committed a crime, they were punished. I think the priority of this society is to re-raise these people, because they are not genetic criminals, but they have committed a criminal offence by the circumstances why they were sentenced to prison. And that's why we need to raise them. So we suggest that this item is not deleted. Because we just want convicts who have entered the socio-therapy program prior to the prison sentence, to be given the opportunity to proceed with the sentence of imprisonment. Because the therapeutic community is a drug rehab program, opiates, so exactly what led him to the crime. And if this isn't, what you're teaching to say, and if this isn't the subject of this law, but in any case, it's the subject of this ministry's thinking, and it's the same category of convicts, convicts, maybe it's time to think about, to find a modus and legal arrangement that will allow perpetrators of criminal offences to actually be referred to special treatment communities whose rehab programs will be determined by the Ministry of Justice, and instead of prisons, to support rehab programmes in the therapeutic communities. Of course the ministry would have had to have control over the work of these therapeutic communities and the effectiveness of the rehab programme. I think that in this way we would help these people to do more than I think this philosophy and this approach to that category of people is just as imagined in the National Strategy to fight addiction, but it seems to me also in the action plan of implementing the National Anti-Addiction Strategy. Then I would like to speak with a few words concerning these changes that have arisen for reasons of overcrowding of the prison. In Article 17, an amendment is made which states that we are giving, i.e. that the prisoners sentenced to prison by one year may be granted a continuation of work with the employer or a continuation of their own activity. What's the difference? The difference is, according to the current law, it was up to six months, and now it's up to a year. I wonder how much that'll be possible. Because we need to look at this in accordance with the Labour Act. And according to the Labour Act, a worker sentenced to prison for six months and more ends his employment relationship, his working relationship ends. If the worker stops, not that he can stop it is not a reason to stop, but the law is imperative, he says he stops his working relationship, as his working relationship now stops, and we here give him the opportunity to leave him in the same environment for the next year. It seems to me that such regulation will not dissipate prisons. Because if I get it right, those workers who can work with their employer or continue their own activities are back in prison. So it's not a dispensation function, but only here is insurance work elsewhere, so theoretically possible, in practice hard to implement, especially since these two laws are mutually exclusive. They shut down, and in that part they don't have touch points. Here are our two main objections. However, we appeal once again to the proposer to pay particular attention to this part of the amendment relating to addicts. Because we wouldn't want anything to be done that wasn't necessary. You really don't need to delete that item and thus force addicts to come into the middle for which you have to admit it, and I admit that drug prisons are getting in pretty good. Quite a drug goes to prisons and even prisoners who weren't addicts before they went to prison to become drug addicts in prison. Let's take these who have cause and cause and cause of crime precisely this disease of addiction, let's start to isolate them from the very beginning, as it is now, so that we don't fall further into what we say is cancer of today's society and that we have to fight all the forces against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85770	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Rade Ivas. Here you go. ... I'm sorry, there's been a misunderstanding here, it's not put in, so Mrs. Anticevic Marinovic will be on behalf of the club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85771	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is true that the State Secretary claimed that by adopting the Law on the Penalty of Prison in 2001 the reform of our prison system began. We are just for this reform of the prison system that began with the law itself, and then by its application, i.e. and by providing funds, significant funds for the application of the Penal Code, obtaining the highest marks and the highest recognition of international institutions. Our system in 2003 at the 11th month of the prison system, therefore by international institutions both European and global, and by the United Nations itself, a special commission, assessed as a system that can serve as an example for transition countries. After last year's report by the Ombudsman on the state of human rights in prisons, on the difficult situation of prisoners in our prisons and penitentiary, and after Croatia in a special case against Croatia, the European Court of Human Rights condemned Croatia for violating human rights in prisons last year, we expected it to be ensured that the Croatian government would ensure that this was also our proposal for individual reports, as well as the Ombudsman, to provide urgent additional funds in the state budget to improve the situation in our prisons and penitentiaries. But that didn't happen. So now that the situation is bad, instead of getting better at what we're doing, we're making good solutions worse and we're harmonising good legal normative solutions with a bad condition. That's inadmissible. The truth is there are some needs, some standards that require adaptation in view of some changes to other laws, but these are minor things. Equally, perhaps one of the more contentable changes needed to be welcomed and supported by the judge himself, execution. Let's not forget for the first time in 2001 the judicialization of our penal system is taking place, which means that it is not only left to execute the punishment of the administration, the state administration that always tends to violate human rights more, so the judge is here to guarantee the rights of the prisoners. And the truth is, there were some misunderstandings in the execution, that is, the application of this institute. However, all other changes are poor changes. They are touched precisely by the fundamental rights of prisoners and convicts who have been assessed by these international institutions as good solutions, as excellent solutions based on the absolute adoption of the Convention on the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Demeaning Treatments or Penalty of the Council of Europe. Such institutions, such institutions, unfortunately in these many changes, these are one major change, so 55 articles seem to be changing, it's one major major major change, but unfortunately in the vast majority, in a huge percentage of these changes to the harm of rights and freedoms in prisons. And for what? Because of the poor conditions, because of the lack of funds, therefore there are relevant assessments of here and the court. I don't know, so I'm really curious about what Croatia has done about it. Because if he doesn't take measures other than this huge amount he owes, next time he'll pay even more and the changes are inevitable to happen. So as soon as such an amendment is made by the European Court of Human Rights, it will be cheaper in Croatia. If we just remember what the occupier's report tells us that the prisoners to support the sick with the healthy, that the tuberculosiss are for the first time in healthy cells, that that's where the cockroaches, the bedbugs settled, that for the first time in our prisons, that night pots that are already forgotten from the Yugoslav signs were introduced, because prison guards can't control, that's how many prisons are overcrowded that they don't have time to take them to the toilet. Strikes, escapes, mysterious deaths, they're everyday because of the overcrowding of penitentiary and prison. The director has alarmed this situation, with almost one cry, cry for help, don't send us new convicts. Of course, the Association of Judges also rose because they must act according to the law. What happened? This is also seen from the explanation of certain norms that overcrowding is, that there are convicts. A large percentage of convicts are those up to a year in prison. So the poor situation in the prison system is the result of a poor criminal policy that we have warned against the amendments to the Penal Code where all those crimes that cannot find their incrimination or... a place, because they will have a repercusion precisely in the execution of a prison sentence. Now it turns out that the critics who warned about it were on the right track, that we got an inefficient, over-indulgent system that shoots where? He's shooting right in prison. That our prisons are full of convicts dominated by punishments up to a year ago. We've had that solution to in no way allow for criminal penalties, fines for prison imprisonment, and a large part of just such convicts endure prison sentences. So, by banning the superintendent prison, we'd be discharging the capacity. It's just that it's about first reading, so just a few indicators in this general SDP assessment that it's about worsening the good Penal Code. Here you can see already in the amendment to Article 3(4) where the existing Article 20(4) deletes, and when we see what it is that smaller funds will be provided for something which is the fundamental right of a prisoner to health care. So here is the article of the existing 20th, which speaks of the penitentiary, repealing the provision for prisoners who have been sentenced to prison by a mandatory treatment of addiction, who have been involved in the socio-therapy procedure before coming to the punishment procedure in a special penitentiary or in a special section of the penitentiary. So far it's been a norm. As it has not been applied so far, because the prison is overcrowded, because there is no place, let us not forget that in the past term we have introduced custody in prisons, that chapels today serve to set up beds, that the spaces that have served the socialization of prisoners are abolished because also there are mattresses, bearings. So there is no more work with prisoners of what is needed to achieve the purpose of punishment, because the purpose of punishment is not only revenge, it is not only repression, but resociation. With all the efforts of those prison guards that we provided for the maximum increase as the salaries were reduced elsewhere in the prison system, we provided 30 maximum increases in the supplement on their basic salary by declaring that interest the most stressful. So, there was an increase of 30% maximum by law, but prison guards simply can't resist this ascension of convicts and retrieval in prisons and penitentiarys and it's just not possible anymore that prisoners addicts what it's always been have a separate maintenance sentence. Then, a broader health protection of prisoners for the work and vocational education of prisoners is abolished, as has been possible so far. Further deterioration is felt precisely in an individual prison sentence program. Then, when employed by another employer and carrying out its own activity. This system admits, this authority admits, that where a prison sentence is imposed for up to 6 months, the possibility now extends for a year to discharging the system itself. The fee during education, therefore it is reduced and reduced. The protection of health as the elemental right of prisoners is abolished. The penitentiary, i.e. the prison must be said to be equipped in accordance with health regulations and supplied to the manual storage of medicinal products. It is the most fundamental thing, however, such a provision is lifted. Why is it being abolished? Because it doesn't come true, because there's no means. But please, if the state has imprisoned the convict, then the state's obligations to such a person have not ceased. In fact, they came into new ones, which is basically to protect his health. However, here is the fact that there is no more talk of improving socialization, resociation, vocational education, so here it is being spared and in the health of the convicts because here is the provision of Article 103(3) that speaks of the equipment of the infirmary. The mental illness procedure. Well, that's exactly how it was said, it allowed an existing provision of treatment in a health care facility that could last the longest to the end of the sentence, which was perfectly normal. So far, there is a different concept here that such a person who has been ill would automatically fall under a new law, the Law on persons with mental disorders. Keep going, though. It doesn't matter that much. But we still have a significant change. The cost of treatment outside the penitentiary, or prison. They were always at the time of the prison sentence, regardless of whether the prisoner was on leave or did not fall on the burden of the state, or the penitentiary. Not anymore. The rights of prisoners are reduced, visits to penitentiaries, i.e. prisons, to those representatives and authorised persons, so that they are not only derived from the body of the state government, but also from other interested persons engaged in the protection of human rights. Further rights of convicts who have in some way awakened pride because it is essential for resociation, and not to kill the little dignity of prisoners who always suffer the penalty of imprisonment. So the prisoner has the right to receive and send money by intervening the penitentiary, or prison, such a standard is abolished. With money he can no longer freely dispose, but I am telling you and it is well known to our governors and our secretary of state that many prisoners have maintained their family's work in prison, and now they are no longer free to dispose. Likewise, neither receive money from those who would help them, but only from relatives, for to God’s sakes are abuses. Of course. Every right carries abuse behind it, but it's ours to combat abuse, not end law. In such a way, so basic humane what is it? In the end, it is also part of 10 church orders to visit sick people and prisoners, and that means giving them something. Here now it makes it impossible for third parties to bring funds, but only relatives. And how many prisoners have relatives given up, who don't have any relatives? Whether their fundamental human rights that have always existed were considered, in the liberalisation of the prison system in the 70s. Now such a right, a fundamental right, is hereby abolished. You see, there was once a concept and content of convenience that consisted in reducing the restrictions of movement within the penitentiary, or prison. Now she's abolishing herself. Why? Because every prisoner who doesn't have that privilege cut down on the movement within the penitentiary. So that's not what I'm talking about. That's not what we're talking about that's what we're criticizing. That's not what he's talking about. I'm not even a public defender. You can doubt all of them. Well, you're not gonna doubt the director of the prison system that's talking about the alarming state. So instead of these changes, we were expecting the funds the prison system needs and not tomorrow, but today. We often hear new prisons will be built. However, these are only future projections. What we're left with right now is to improve the situation because the situation in prisons is difficult. It threatens to blow up behavior in prison because the basic, basic provision, Article 1 speaks exactly how many squares a convict needs to be provided in prison or penitentiary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85772	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First, Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85773	Dear Mr. Vice President! Well, he would correct the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague who said there was no increase in the budget funds to be allocated in this budget year for the prison system. It's just not true. And I think that needs to be corrected, because the increased funds that are directly directed towards improving standards in the prison system and in fact a whole series of other measures have been established within the ministry, that the prison system standard itself in any respect of the execution of prison sentences is improved. It is also not true that when an esteemed colleague said that the assistant minister made a public call, do not send prisoners or people to prison. This is one newspaper article or title of the newspaper article and the content of the newspaper article. This was later and denied and was actually referred to other forms of sanctions, not prison sanctions, especially when it comes to the easiest forms of crime. And in conclusion, I appreciate the knowledge of my colleague's prison system. It's just impossible actually it's impossible it's almost overnight from one as you say...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85774	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85775	So, the prison front system from electric elevators to some kind of... Whatever you say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85776	Thank you very much. Correction, Mr. Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85777	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. He'd correct his colleague's representative when she said the chapels in the penitentiary weren't necessary. They're the ones who serve for the spiritual restoration of prisoners, and I've talked to a couple of people who got out of prison. It was very helpful for them. And the other thing is when she accused the Government of the Republic of Croatia of being guilty of the situation in the penitentiary. It's not the government's fault. It's not the Ministry's fault either. The only person to blame is the lawyer's office who suspended known lawyers, so now our prisons are full of drug dealers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85778	Thank you very much. These are opinions. We're moving on to individual. Mr. Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85779	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, fellow Members and colleagues! I will begin my debate with one claim that there is a good technical law in front of us that primarily seeks to ensure the equal legal position of all prisoners, raises the level of security of the prison system, introduces measures to reduce the costs of the prison system. But by this law, but he's not who he would be, we don't solve the current problems after all. In the first order of redecoration and prisons and penitentiary. And according to the report, we know it's over 30 to 40 percent. While we have more and more criminal measures on the one hand, which brings more and more prisoners to prison, it seems to me that we are not providing much quality resources to increase these capacities. Despite the government's efforts and we can see that yet some capacities like Clay are increasing both in quality and spatial terms. But let's get back to the subject. As we have heard today's Penal Code applies since 2001 when it is in line with the international conventions that the Republic of Croatia has adopted with the then applicable European legal rules. And it is certain that these changes and additions have actually begun a quality reform of the prison system. The basic issues that this bill wants to address today can be divided into several groups. First, it is also necessary to bring this law in line with the new laws, such as the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Executive Procedure, the Law on Procedural Procedure and similar laws. In fact, these laws introduce the possibility of a prison sentence, which was not prescribed by the Penal Code, which is why we need to comply with these laws. Furthermore, the adoption of the Law on civil servants relating to the prison system conditions and requires an amendment to this law in order to comply with this Law on civil servants. Furthermore, it is important that these laws are detailed in the application for judicial protection under which the judge decides to execute. In practice, it was inconclusive whether this request was a particular legal institute of judicial protection, and in order to remove this inconclusion, Article 17 was amended, which indicates that it was actually a matter of judicial protection of the law decided by the Court of Justice under Article 42(2) of the Law. Similarly, the law does not specify exactly which judge takes the actions and decides in relation to certain stages of the procedure from the initiation to the execution of the sentence, nor who are parties to the procedure in the first and second stages of Articles 12 and 13 of the Law, precisely determines which judge of the execution of the County Court takes the actions and makes decisions in relation to the individual phases. The parties to the first and second stages of the procedure have also been specified. In order to achieve prison security, it is necessary to make more quality regulations that all things can be carried into the penitentiary. The law also addresses the issue of receiving money. And also, the law of the present is not prescribed all the behaviors that represent strict measures, so this law seeks to resolve it. The question of the prisoner's cash compensation during schooling and in cases where work cannot be secured has also led to abuse and manipulation, so this law and this matter has been regulated. The issue of the health care of prisoners has also been resolved, and it is prescribed that prisoners who have medical care or have acquired it on any basis retain that right. However, as for some proposed changes regarding the health care of prisoners, those in the long run may lead to savings, but savings do not necessarily mean better health care for the prisoners themselves. In the end, I would also like to mention some of my dilemmas that were mentioned on the Justice Committee, which is next to article 27, which speaks of the possibility of calling prisoners. Therefore, Article 125(2) states that under closed conditions, telephone calls will be monitored and in a semi-open and open manner they can be monitored. Does this provision cause certain problems... After all, what does it mean to monitor? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Does this mean that a prisoner can make a phone call with the presence of a prison clerk, or is the phone listening to special devices? Should surveillance be limited in semi-open or open penitentiary? And another remark that we also mentioned in the Committee on Justice is the inaccuracy of Article 47 which speaks about the parole committee. In fact, it stands there and the provision refers to the appointment of the commissioner and, among other things, says the minister will appoint a member of the judge to the place of execution. It seems to me that this would cause certain misunderstandings in practice. Because does that mean that in any case you should appoint another judge executed. So here's what might be a little bit of a bit of a suggestion to make and to make this more specific. All in all, I think it's a good law that will certainly be improved after the first debate and that we will then accept it in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85780	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I ask representatives and committee presidents who have not discussed certain points and intend to do so, say, maybe even tonight, to discuss it by 10 o'clock. And we continue tomorrow with the 19th point of the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on humanitarian demining, then the humanitarian demining plan of the plan report, and so on in accordance with the conditions that we have, given that the committees that have discussed or possibly would not discuss it, and we will move on accordingly. Here, thank you very much. Good night. ... Ten o'clock in the morning so the boards can do this. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-22-0.u85781	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. First reading. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 79 votes for, 3 abstentions and 12 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
