ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91004	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will continue to work. I welcome all of you together. And we move to - Proposal for an annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The law on the accounts of the Government has submitted that act to be adopted. You received the materials with the mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Does the Proposer want a representative? Here you go, Mr. Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91005	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to ask you the same question as yesterday morning, because in the meantime, we didn't get an answer. Namely, the HSS Club suggested we discuss in the Parliament the affair that took place at the Privatisation Fund. We suggested that the prime minister come and talk to us. Today we're opening a newspaper, screaming headlines about this affair. Everyone obviously knows more than we MPs here in the Parliament, even if they were, it would be good if we were the most informed. And it would be good if you were looking for it instead of the HSS Club, you as vice president, or President Shakespeare. Because we noticed yesterday that President Shakespeare has probably more knowledge than all of us here. It's high time someone came to the Parliament and the Assembly representatives found out what was actually going on at the Privatisation Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91006	Thank you. As I said yesterday, I submitted your proposal and request and as I also said will be within the framework of the Rules of Procedure in this regard and the answer. I can't say anything else for now. Does the Prime Minister of Finance want a representative, Mr. Ivan Shuker? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am very pleased that I can, on behalf of the Government and as Minister of Finance, present an opening statement on the implementation of the 2006 budget. And why with special pleasure and why am I particularly pleased? And you'll see from my further exposure. So what we can say with certainty today is that the public finances of the Republic of Croatia are governed, that all obligations are settled and that today, in public finances and in the state budget, they are operated exclusively through one account, not over a few hundred accounts, as was the case in previous years. And with the introduction of internal control and audit, with the adoption of a series of financial laws that have been regulated by the financial system of the Republic of Croatia, the establishment of HANFA, the different model and way of functioning of the Tax Administration and the Customs Administration have led to these results. And what was done during 2006? First of all, economic growth has been accelerated. You know that economic growth was 4.8. Forecasts and estimates not only of growth in the Ministry of Finance but of independent economists of international financial institutions were that economic growth would be much lower. Slowed inflation, reduced unemployment and reduced deficits, invested significant resources in more equal development and the transport link between all Croatian regions, allocated significant resources to foster the development of agriculture, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, continued investment in education and science with the aim of ensuring a knowledge-based society, and thus the assumption of long-term sustainable growth and development, further steps have been made to modernise and increase the efficiency of the judiciary, continued with a high level of concern for this government that the socially sensitive group of society, continued investment in defence and security, and what is very important with success, significant efforts have been made in the area of accession of the European Union. Let me also present the basic macroeconomic indicators that were adorned in 2006. So the real growth of gross domestic product in 2006 was 4.8, representing 0.5 percentage points in growth compared to 2005 when economic growth was 4.3%. So we expect the foundation to further accelerate the growth of gross domestic product. This is based on continued implementation of key structural reforms, investment in infrastructure, private sector investment. I must say that today's private sector, unlike in 2003, when it was about 30 percent with over 60% participating in the growth of gross domestic product and that is only one indicator of the quality of structural reforms implemented in the Republic of Croatia. Also favourable developments in the real sector have led to the lowest unemployment rate in history or in the last 10 years since being targeted. Thus, the unemployment rate in 2005 was 12.3%, and in the second half of 2006 it was 10.5%. Industrial production increased by 4.5% in 2006. However, given that it has already been 5 months this year and that it may be convenient for the public, and also because of you Parliamentarians, that, with the report on the implementation of the 2006 budget, with some macroeconomic indicators being presented parallelly and we say what kind of macroeconomic indicators are today for reasons to see whether these positive trends continue in 2007 or whether they have some other characteristics. However, I am pleased to point out that in the first quarter, in fact, from 1 to 5 months 2007, industrial production grew by 8.1%. But what I'd like to say is that based on this, it's probably economic growth in the first three months of this year about 5.2.5%. But why would I point that out? Because if you remember last year in the first three months, economic growth was 6%. And on such a high base this year, the economic growth of 5.3% clearly indicates that positive economic trends continue. And what's very important, which guarantees such positive trends is a continuous increase in industrial production over 8%. So, based on these macroeconomic indicators, this government has continued to continue fiscal consolidation. Of the deficits of the state budget, which was 6.2%, we ended up with a 3% deficit in 2006. The 2007 deficit is 2.8% but I sincerely hope that by budget rebalance we will go towards further deficit cuts. And what is particularly important is to say what happens for the first time in 2006 that for the first time the share of public debt in the gross domestic product in 2006 has been reduced by 2.7%. I repeat for the first time in history the share of public debt in 2006 decreased by 2.7%. So that's the result of all these good trends, good tax returns. Because you saw that last year tax, actually the charge was 10% higher than in 2005 and I can also say that practically with yesterday's payment day compared to the same period last year it was 15.3% higher. I'm saying it can't be a coincidence because it's been going on for almost two years. This is primarily due to economic activity. So the growth of the Croatian economy and this is the consequence of the introduction of order into public finances. So through the collection of tax revenues and the capture of a part of the gray economy. Because growth in income from 15% to last year's 10% growth is certainly something that is very good and that makes us all particularly happy. Also last year, something happened that happened for the first time. And that's when, it's a little simulation and I don't want to say that now someone says that we like to run some other methodology, but we did a little simulation for the reason we like to play with the deficit in Croatia. We shut down or reduced it by the amount of interest we paid last year from the expenditure side of the State budget. Because these interest rates are practically a direct cost of deficits. And you know what's going on? It happens that the central state is in surplus. The central government deficit last year was 4 billion and 170 million, and 4 billion and 700 million were allocated for interest. So that's why we all have to strive for further fiscal consolidation when we further reduce the deficit because that deficit costs. And with structural reforms will come into this position that we have come to. We practically raised the share of the private sector in the growth of gross domestic product by 100% in two and a half years. So it's up to the state to do the infrastructure. With reforms and new legislative solutions, it makes business easier for the economy and for the economy to create economic growth and investment. So there's got to be a symbiosis between us, and we're obviously doing it here, and that's why we have the results we have today. I repeat, when we exempt the deficit costs and the deficit costs were interest in the state budget of the central state already last year was in surplus 600 million and we, with 600 million of those surpluses, basically financed interest. I repeat, I would not like to change the methodology, however, when, since the deficit is unfortunately very often a topic of political bickering, then it is clear how much does this deficit cost? He's not oblivious. Someone needs to be paid interest on those funds to be raised, a loan. And that's why this fiscal consolidation and the desire of the state to come with the central government deficit is zero. Especially should be stressed, especially should be highlighted. Also, what embellishes the 2000 budget, the implementation of the 2006 budget, was also the basis for the 2007 budget, is an attempt to evenly invest in the development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. Because we can't talk about more significant economic growth if the difference in economic growth between Zagreb, what I know about Split, Rijeka, Istria that is most developed compared to other parts once or twice. We also cannot expect these regions, these Croatian regions, to build on their own the infrastructure to which domestic and foreign investors will come, but rather the state has to do so. Also in this segment, when we talk about the development of Croatian regions, then we must not forget the Croatian islands where the state with its interventions, starting with the subsidisation of transport through the construction of infrastructure, wants to make one completely different orientation in relation to the one that has ruled over the past 70, 80 years. So focus on coming to live on Croatian islands, not on leaving Croatian islands. Because we cannot talk about the development of tourism, we cannot talk about that tourism will be the bearer of economic development in the Republic of Croatia if we do not create preconditions. Because islands are a prerequisite for this and tourism is a generator for economic growth. Let us not forget what happened in 1999 and after those famous events in Serbia when practically Croatia did not have a tourist season. That year we had negative economic growth. And that's a clear indicator that tourism is a generator. But if we're not going to invest, we won't even have a return. Many resources have also been invested in the development of areas of special state care and mountainous areas. A total somewhere around 526 million. By saying that somewhere around a billion and 100 million states have left income and returned income tax returns and profits instead of those units of local self-government because in 2003, at the 7th and 8th months, over 90% of local self-government units in areas of special state care were blocked because income tax returns went out of their account. Since 1.1.2004, however, the Law on Budget Implementation has defined that this return of income tax is made from the state budget rather than from the budget of the units of local self-government. Also, investment in water supply and other regional development programmes has been set aside somewhere around 690 or 689.2 million, with the fact that I have to mention that the other day in Davor we signed a contract with the World Bank on EUR 100 million of loans to build a water supply system of disposal and flood protection in the Sava-Drava-Dunav-Dunav basin. Entrepreneurship and business environment. So from investment in entrepreneurship zones, promotion of production, programmes in agriculture, promotion of small shipbuilding and development of tourism. In 2003, this document adopted by this High House invested two billion and 500 million. 2 thousand 600 for the same activities invested 3 billion and 500 million. So the whole billion difference. Thus, he makes it clear, and we can talk about perception one way or another. But these are exact indicators. And the normal thing to say could have been more. It could have. But also let's not forget the base we started from, and the base was 2.5 billion, but the base and budget for 2007 was already 3.5 billion, so for a billion kuna. To talk about Croatia should be a country of knowledge, that Croatia's development should be based on knowledge rather than investing money in primary, secondary and higher education is an illusion. And again, I want to compare the last year of the previous government to 2006. 2003. 7 billion and 800 million, 2006. 9 billion and 588 million. There was neither so much inflation nor any other trends that it could be said that this increase, investment in science, was the result. This is due to the government's orientation that Croatia should be based on knowledge, that Croatia will not be a country of cheap labour, and in order to achieve this, money should be allocated from the state budget. There is no different model and there is no other way to talk about Croatia as a land of knowledge than to invest in that knowledge. And let's never look at the state budget as a cost. Knowledge is an investment. Investment in the future, investment in our children. And so when we're talking about enlightenment, then let's not talk about spending it. That may be the most capital investment in our budget. An investment that will surely return to us through far greater economic growth. Also Croatia's rich cultural tradition and ultimately we all like to say that on these cultural monuments etc. tourism needs to be based and developed. If we're not going to invest money in culture, if we're not going to invest money in the protection of these cultural monuments, then we can't even talk about this other one. So 2003. 640 million, 2006. In 2007 for the first time in the history of the Republic of Croatia, the budget of the Ministry of Culture passed over a billion kuna. Justice, modernization and efficiency gains. We all like to criticize the judiciary like this, and the judiciary is like this, and the judges do, and the judges don't. However, there is also a need for a material basis, starting with the creation of technical conditions, informing both courts and courts at the end and at the end. Then when we do that, then we can just talk about it and ask for our judiciary to be more effective, so in 2003, a billion and 656 million were allocated to the judiciary, and 2006. 2 billion 249 million and not so many courts have increased in Croatia, nor have so many judicial employees increased, but have invested precisely these infrastructure bases which are the basis for judicial reform. We can't talk about judicial reform unless we create technical preconditions. We need to create technical preconditions, then we can talk about how someone should behave in one way or another, and we can also talk about the funds invested in the fight against corruption in 2003. 25 million, 2006. 147 million. So six times more has been invested in the Ministry of Justice in 2006 precisely with the aim of fighting corruption. And again when we talk about perception, it's easy to say nothing, so that with 25 million she could do miracles and today at 140, in fact, in 2006 with 147 million she can't do anything about these funds being significantly increased and increased in 2007. Peacekeeping, health care and social benefits. Unfortunately for me, three topics should not have a political note because pensions are something Croatian citizens have earned and those pensions are not given to them. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we have a situation where income from pension and health care should be financed from pensions and health care should cover only about 60 percent of real needs. Health costs and pension expenses each year create a deficit, in fact last year they created a deficit of about 13 billion kuna, which is covered by tax revenues. That's what I'm saying for reasons it's easy to bid today on when you don't have the responsibility we would solve the problem of new pensioners in such a way and in such a way. You need to find, connect two things that are very difficult. Correct the injustice that has apparently occurred and create a system that will be fiscally sustainable and can be done and can be resolved. But it should be borne in mind that there is a great discrepancy between what is coming and what is spent on those purposes. And since we like to compare, in 2003 for pensions, for social care, for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, the Ministry of Health spent 37 billion and 700 million. In 2006, that amount was 47 billion and 200 million. And I repeat again, that 37 billion could have been financed, and today with 47 billion, nothing can be financed. So these are the exact indicators that if we ignore them with the basis of perception we can discuss in one way or another, but it is evident that this government has increased pensions in three years, for health care by 10 billion, or if we want percentages, it has increased it by more than 30%. Also talk about the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, talk about the budget of the Republic of Croatia, not mentioning the defence population, not mentioning the victims of the war would be unserious and irresponsible. What should also be said and what is a specific feature of the Croatian budget compared to all others is that every year, in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, about 8% of the budget is allocated to the indirect and direct consequences of the war. In 2006, it was about 7.5 billion kuna. 7.5 billion kuna, and when we say that the deficit of the central state is 4 billion and 100 billion and there are direct consequences of the war and that is something that will follow the budget of the Republic of Croatia for many years and that is something that we must never be disturbed with the mind when comparing us with some and that is why we gave at the economic institute and next week we will have a presentation at the Ministry of Finance, that certain comparisons that it makes... busines and others, to make comparisons based on exact indicators, and you will see that then the picture of Croatia looks quite different and that some perceptual assessments lose importance and reduce their share. But what I'm saying is that in 2003 there were 3 billion and 200, 2006. Five billion. And every story that the government has taken care of the defenders, which the government has taken care of the victims of the Homeland War, is more pointless. Because if someone gave a billion and 800 million kunas more than someone else, then it's an exact indicator. The second thing, it wasn't 800 million more on 10 billion than on 3 billion and 200. So, with 3 billion and 200 billion defence budgets, it's increased by a billion and 800 million kuna. Also today, a very common topic, which is Croatia's entry into NATO in order to achieve this, needs to be invested in the defence and there has been an increase in funding compared to 2003 by 550 million, with the need to note that in the meantime, there have been massive layoffs in the MRLs and that wages, the cost of paying today in the MORH compared to what was several years ago have been practically halved. This increase of 500 million or some 18% has a particularly significant interest. And ladies and gentlemen, allow me to show only one plate instead of the conclusion. A table that binds three things closely, the growth of gross domestic product, deficits and unemployment. I don't know how much you'll see, but. ... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You're right, Mr. Representative. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thanks for the intervention. So, as you can see in 2003, economic growth was 5.2%, but we had a 6.2 deficit and we had an unemployment rate of 14%. Today we have a 3% deficit, we have an economic growth of 14.8%. So that's where the relationship changed. It's someone no one can argue with. It's an exact indicator, but we also have an exact unemployment rate, a decrease in unemployment rates by polling unemployment rate to 10.5% in the second quarter. To all economic analysts, all people of good faith, the intentions towards the Republic of Croatia, this chart clearly tells what was the economic, social and economic policy of this government, and let us not forget that successful economic policy can only be guided through the state budget. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91008	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First representative of Mr. Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91009	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A successful economic policy cannot only be guided through the state budget, but it is not what I wanted to correct. I am correcting that growth rates in Croatia can qualify as significant, even from this latest chart from the alleged growth of industrial production, etc. You see, two days ago, we had an HR-plus forum and an institute with international experts, a hundred people, and there were people from the government where it was determined exactly, and I've already corrected it, where it's precisely found that the growth rates in Croatia are unfortunately not as significant as they say and what I'm correcting. They're in the rudimentary routine. We have some results in Croatia, no need to deny them. Things are moving forward, but we have problems. Too much self - appreciation that is present constantly including the minister’s exposure leads to complacency, yet we still need self - concern. And allow another sentence though. It takes us 29 years to arrive with the current dynamics three of Europe's most underdeveloped countries, namely Greece, Spain and Portugal, and of them we were more developed as Croatia in the 1970s. So we can't talk about satisfactory growth results.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91010	Thank you very much. Please, please, let's listen to everyone. It's order and democracy. And if I can suggest, let's look at the indicators specifically, and then there won't be any big comments. So if we're already discussing the numbers, then we should mention them. There's another correction to Mr. Slaven Letica's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91011	Mr. Vice President, I enjoy listening to Minister Shuker, I always compare him to a misanthropic discourse by Slavko Linic. When you listen to Linic, you're always scared, and Shuker sows with optimism. However, I am correcting one of his incorrect allegations. In fact, if I were to say that Mr. Shime Squirt and I, we weren't bald enough to have lush and curly hair, it seems about your game you pointed at. He says we played a game so we calculated that there was no interest-based commitment, then the budget would be in surplus of 600 million kuna. Don't play it that way because it creates it in public, Mr. Minister, which is, it's a difficult fact that the payments are on interest. In Croatia, taking into account only the basics of external debt is greater than the increase in social gross product.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91012	Thank you very much. Do they want representatives of the board? Yeah. Ms. Nevenka Majdenic, on behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91013	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 73rd session held on 12 June 2007 the proposal for an annual accounts of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 25 May 2007. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report on the use of the 2006 budget stock. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed annual accounts and the report on the use of the 2006 budget stock as a home working body. In the opening statement, the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out briefly the most important macroeconomic indicators in 2006, data on the achievement of income and income, expenditure and expenditure, and data on the implementation of financial plans outside the budget funds in 2006. Thus, in 2006, the real growth of gross domestic product was 4.8%, which represents an increase of 0.5% compared to 2005. Industrial production increased by 4.5% in 2006, and goods exports increased to 15.6% faster than goods imports of 13.5%, and inflation slowed to 3.2% in 2006. Unemployment decreased from 17.8% to 16.7% compared to 2005, and the rate of survey unemployment from 11.8% from the first half of 2006 is the lowest in the last 7 years. Now we've heard that the rate of unemployment is 10.5. The general government deficit was reduced from 4% of gross domestic product in 2005 to 3% of gross domestic product in 2006. The total revenues of the state budget amounted to 95 000 588.2 million kuna, which amounts to an increase of 11.2% compared to 2005, and total expenditures amount to 97 000 858.4 million kuna and are higher by 8000 172, 1 million kuna compared to 2005. The increase in expenditure growth has partly resulted from the inclusion of road compensation, 2 000 887.2 million kuna, EU aid 155 million kuna and other revenues, revenue growth for special purposes in the national budget for 2006 and those items were not included in the state budget for 2005 and earlier years. The total deficit in the state budget was reached in 2006 at 2 000, 277.2 million kuna, which is 23.4% less than the planned budget deficit for 2006. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided without debate, 5 votes for and 2 against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Annual Account of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The Budget Act is agreed on: Annual accounts of the financial plan for 2006 of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, Annual accounts of the financial plan for 2006 of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Annual accounts of the financial plan for 2006 of the Croatian Employment Institute, Annual accounts of the financial plan for 2006 Croatian Waters, Annual accounts of the 2006 financial plan for the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, Annual accounts of the financial plan for 2006 Croatian Autoroads, Annual accounts of the financial plan for 2006 Croatian Roads, Annual accounts of the financial plan for 2006 of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Recovery of Banks, Annual accounts of the financial plan for 2006 of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The Budget Act The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report on the use of the 2006 budget stock, and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposes to the Croatian Assembly and the next conclusion. A report on the use of the 2006 budget stock is hereby adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91014	Thank you very much. Meanwhile, the Tourism Committee also submitted a report. Mr. Representative Milan Meden. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91015	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! At its 42nd session, held on 19 June, the Tourism Committee discussed the proposal for an annual accounts of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 25 May 2007. The tourism committee considered the proposal in question pursuant to Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body, in particular in the section concerning the establishment and monitoring of the policy of tourist development of the Republic of Croatia. Introductory presentation on the achievement of income and income and expenditure and expenditure of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 is... with macroeconomic indicators and a reference to individual positions and accounts of this budget submitted by Mr. Niko Rajic, an assistant minister of finance of the Republic of Croatia, of interest in the field of tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In a brief discussion, it noted satisfaction that the planned state budget for 2006 was planned for tourism promotion, subsidising organised tourism transport to encourage, increasing the competitiveness of the tourism market as well as financing the tourism promotion programme, incentives with full success. Such support certainly contributed to the positive effects of last tourist season. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Tourism unanimously concluded that it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Annual Account of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91016	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91017	Mr. Vice President, Ministers with Associates, colleagues and colleagues! It is logical that the minister praises the work of the government, whose member he is, is especially logical when the election year is and when only a few months away from the election. But on behalf of our club, I'll still be more critical. I hope to be objective, because in these macroeconomic indicators and economic indicators I will use exclusively statistical data. The current government's mandate began in a good business and political environment. Economic growth was over 5%, major infrastructure works were under way, primarily highway construction. To the most extent, the economy was consolidated. And it began to make profits after a long period. Unemployment has dropped to about 318 thousand unemployed. Croatia has become a desirable partner from an unwanted partner. The way for negotiations and entry into the European Union is open. Starting with such initial positions as well as election promises, expectations from the new Croatian government were high. It is therefore now logical at the end of her term to analyse and evaluate the results of her work critically. Under the agenda, today's agenda is analysed for the achievement of the national budget for 2006, but inevitably and achieved macroeconomic and economic indicators. It is also unnecessary to discuss the implementation of certain items in the state budget, because after the rebalancing and the government's power to redistribute funds within the budget, the implementation of budget items is almost ideally consistent with the plan. During the entire term, the government had a deficit reduction to the budgetary policy goal and it has subordinated it to the overall policy. The extent to which it has succeeded is questionable and the extent to which the deficit is the result of accounting methods. The commitment to carry out all transactions through the budget has already been abandoned in the payment of debt to pensioners who will be made for 8 years and it is doubtful whether all payments will be covered by the sale of assets that are less or more or moreover have to be allocated from the state budget. It is written daily about the large debts of creditors who have claims from the state budget or state institutions. It's about debts to builders, in health care, and doctors are looking for more than two billion kunas, which would actually increase significantly, now the deficit that has been paid. And the World Bank estimates the deficit will be around about 4.6% in 2007. That's what controversy is about, and we wouldn't want to participate in it because reality will actually show who's right. Real deficit decline is only possible provided they are achieved above the average growth rate. But that's not the case in Croatia. We achieve growth rates that are at the level of growth in the global economy and from transition countries we are among the lowest. And our Croatian Chamber of Commerce warns that such growth rates actually mean that Croatia's average will reach the European Union in about 25 years. So we had after that rate of growth of 5.3% dropped to 3.6 and next year 4.3 and this year we analyze 4.8%. More growth rates in Croatia in the short term can be achieved by increasing industrial growth. The government has no industrial policy or at least has not presented it in this House, and it was also warned by employers on the recent Entrepreneurial Day and expressed their view of industrial Croatia. Good industrial policy reduces imports and increases employment. Where the Croatian industry is today, it also shows that only 80% of pre-war production reaches 12 years after the war. During that period, the number of employees in the industry fell from 37% to 25% and its share in the gross social product from 30% to 20%. Croatia and the employers' proposal need to rehabilitate the industrial sector and speed up its growth. Economic growth is also a direct consequence of the country's external trade activities. Croatia has no good results in the area as well. Our economy does not cover half of its imports with its exports. The stock exchange deficit in the upward path from year to year records records. 2004. EUR 6.9 billion, 2005 7,9 and 2006 EUR 8.8 billion. It is similar with the balance of payments deficit that ranged from 1.4 to 2 billion to 2 billion in 2006. Such data then inevitably monitors the country's duties. So Croatia can today, even though Croatia can settle debts neatly today, it is a high-indebted country and should take care of it. At the height of external debt, we are the most in charge of the country among the transition states. Ino was EUR 29 billion at the end of 2006 and the state participated in it with 6.6 billion, which is nominally at 2003 level. Today, however, no one in the reigning circles calculates how much each child is in charge, just as you did from the beginning of 2000 to 2003. We're not bringing it up today. However, the state's internal debt reached an amount of 52 billion kuna, twice as much as it was in late 2003. That's something to take care of. It's not just an external debt. In the same way, the problem is the internal debt of the state. And on this occasion, we want to point out the problem of mutual non-payments that eats and then the healthy tissue of the economy. Unfortunately, the state is not a role model either. For the third year in a row, the number and amount of blocked accounts have increased. The government does not solve this problem and does not take any action because it insists on denying it. From what SDP has been said, the efficiency of the current government in economic terms is unsatisfactory as it is visible through budgetary policy. The government is satisfied with an increase in income that is not entirely the result of domestic economy work. It is visible in a way, from the data that incomes grow faster than the growth of gross social product. Tax revenues are increasing in part because of the increase in imports, which is bought on credit and so on. It should be recalled that there has been no more radical change in tax policy. But it came, there was no reduction, but there was a burden on both tax and paratax revenues. Just a reminder. In the meantime, excise duties have been increased, tax breaks have been reduced. An administrative medical tax has been introduced. Greater water contributions have been introduced, and what may be the most devastating and what we have warned about has been introduced, a water contribution to investments that Croatia is actually calling for to have as much investment as possible. So to, by analysing in such a way and budgetary policy and the overall government policy, we cannot be satisfied. Since we have not voted in favour of the 2006 budget and it has not significantly changed policy or budget items or rebalancing, this is why our club will not vote for an annual account for 2006 either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91018	Thank you very much. We have 7 corrections of incorrect allegations. First, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91019	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's Mrs. Zgrebec said that the government's mandate started under good conditions, which is not true at all. I'll just get some information. The deficit is 6.2% burdening the economy and... burdens the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unsettled finances. Over 300 accounts in the ministries you had. He was spending whatever anybody wanted past the budget. The state audit showed it all. And if we remember the State Audit for 2003 with those huge shortcomings and irregularities, and in the budget, in the implementation of the 2003 budget, we should also remember the conclusion proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club that the Government submits within 30 or 60 days to this Assembly what it will do with these shortcomings? Here's if it wasn't, if there were such good conditions why you suggested that this government corrects according to the state's audit corrects your shortcomings and failures. So there were no good conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91020	Thank you. Correction, Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not gonna fix what my colleague already fixed, and I meant it, but I'm gonna fix something else. You said the minister boasted the work of this government over the election year. No, it's because of the indicator this government had in 2006. So I'll do it again. Economicly accelerated to 4.8, an increase in industrial production by 4.5%, an increase in tourism by 3.1%, increased exports, the unemployment rate in the last 10 years is the lowest, the parallel inflation, and how much the environment and the good environment of this government were at the beginning of the mandate just to tell you, and I always represent educational workers that you are these people who are committed and who really need to give them the recognition of the remaining billions and 200 million kuna for what they did, and that's their shift work. This means overtime and their regression that you signed with your collective partner at the end of 2003, and you didn't pay them back, but this government had to pay back the debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91022	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Ante Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91023	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, the honourable representative said that the minister, it is true that the minister praises the government's work. I can say that this is incorrect, I have listened carefully to Mr. Minister and everything he has said in terms of both macroeconomic indicators and economic activity of our economy, he said, and it can be derived from this that the Government has, by its work and participation, helped these good indicators both in the economy and in the macroeconomic indicators, and in the spending and collecting of the financial resources that he has had in the past 2006 budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91024	Mrs. Zgrebec, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91025	I refer to Article 209. Rules of Procedure. Since you're allowing incorrect allegations to be corrected, let's say. I said the minister praised the government's work. Well, that's true, that's not an incorrect quote. He praised the government's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91026	That's not why the Rules of Procedure got hurt. Since there is a systematic and mass correction of incorrect allegations that are not,... The case and then how do I have such a criterion from the beginning, then I don't listen at all unless someone offends someone. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] So don't lift it, don't lift the tables unnecessarily because it's a practice in this House. When we change our Rules of Procedure, when it's strong, even more precisely here, then I will do so. There's a word for correcting Mrs. MPs. What? ... I won't give a warning, and don't tell me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's my call. ... You are not authorized to warn me, you know. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's a word for correction, please, Mrs. Ivana Judge Trakostanec. Here you go. Let's be precise and brief.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91027	Very short and very precise. It is incorrect to argue that it is possible to reduce the deficit of a consolidated general state exclusively to extremely high growth rates because this, reports on the implementation of the budget have shown that this is possible with real growth rates considered not higher than 4.8% of gross domestic product and 4.5% of the increase in industrial production, with a deficit of more than 1.8 billion kuna or even one percentage point. Thus, by combining other variables, it is possible to reduce the country's deficit and in the future with the very real growth rates, and of course strive towards the extremely high ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91028	And the correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91029	Mr. Vice President. So here's what I'm going to do is correct just one incorrect quote in sequence, which is that Mrs. Zgrebec claimed that it's questionable how much the government actually managed to reduce the deficit, because according to their perceptions, it should be 4.6%. Otherwise, what the minister stated was that he was 3%, i.e. that it has been reduced by 3.2% since 2003, clearly says that the inaccuracies expressed in this House concerned this deficit, which has been confirmed by international factors as well as all independent auditors who follow the developments in the finances of the Republic of Croatia, in fact wanted to consolidate what does not stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91030	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91031	I again refer to Article 209 because I didn't say anything about our perception that the deficit is 4.6%, but I called on the World Bank that said it envisioned a 4.6% deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91032	Mrs. Zgrebec, you're the next time you've raised the bat by challenging me to give a warning. Looks like that's your goal, but I'm not gonna give you a warning, and you guys keep that bat up. Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Shime Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91033	I don't like it, and... However, the colleague cited a very important and incorrect data when she said that she would not comment on the data in the budget account because the government had been given the authority to redistribute as opposed to earlier and thus listed the ideal balance. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] It's not true, because in 2003 redistribution was made, about 3 and a half billion kuna was spent, and when you take the budget size and relative ratio, it's a different picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91034	And correcting the incorrect allegations, Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the thing. I've got to do it one more time to get it over with. The Veli Government started under good conditions. And now I'm curious about what the good conditions were. These were hidden debts besides the rest, court rulings for disrespecting collective agreements against... The professors, the police, the civil servants, go billions, unskilled construction, the restoration of the rink, let's remember the bad POS construction, the restitution, everything needed to be remembered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Split jobs to contractors without, say, Spain, Sesveta, without documentation and in general we found total anarchy and the destruction of the reputation of politicians through dissension and affairs in the coalition government. I don't have time to list "Lenac", Rijeka Bank, Stroke hotels.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91036	Thank you very much. Let's move on, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative of the Shima Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91037	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This is precisely why I would avoid the traps of possible interpretation, I will use exact data and only by calculating the budget for the past year, and these exact data will be based on official data published by the DSZ through all these funds, the CNB and others, therefore they are as they have been officially published and will not be combined with any previous year, or particularly where it is important to gain insight into possible progress from the main macroeconomic indicators. At the very beginning, of course, the HDZ Club will support this budget, the budget calculation and I will give the following reasons why we support this budget calculation, of course, which preceded the rebalancing and now the final calculation. Otherwise, this is the time when other reports for the past year will follow and there will be a correlation of the same data published here. In the introduction, I just want to say that at the beginning of this government, this government, but not in its foundations, uncompromising, not touching the previous governments or the previous year. It found that solid economic growth was then based on mainly foreign capital imports and on state consumption, which was thus conditioned by public works and in that second part of the private consumption segment, which was also based on capital imports and the expansion of banking. Such a situation was wanted by the government to change by setting the basic objectives that, in particular, through these data that I will present now quantified, clearly show that it achieves such goals. And what was the goal? To move from such a development based on the role of the state to the role of the private sector and we already see through the data that in this year the majority and somewhere over 60% of the development is carried by the private sector. Here are the reasons, and then we will see through the employment rate, through growth and through price stability that exactly such a fundamental goal of transition to this sector has been achieved in the past year, and all the data from the first quarter indicate that it is significantly achieved in this year. Basic macroeconomic indicators again do not want to comment on what Croatia is, but let's see what's going on in the world, and then briefly with us. In the world, in the last year of gross social product or GDP, I like to say it in short, with 4.8 in the world in the previous year achieved by 5.3%. But when you take the fact that there are two countries in China and India and countries that are oil exporters, and... neither of them, nor our third foreign trade partners, could only have a negative impact on the growth of the GDP in us. Also in the growth of the social gross product in Europe from 1.4 to 2.6 around this year, and we see that only Germany, which our main trading partner in this year has achieved slightly greater growth, thus allowing for a positive impact, and all other impacts, oil prices, steel prices and other negative impacts on trends in our country and this external demand that then shifts to the domestic demand sector. And in inflation, there's only one fact that inflation in Europe last year from 3% in the previous year went to 3.4% in this year, and inflation here we'll see that it's lower than the average in Europe. It's the macroeconomic environment we live in. Secondly, the macroeconomic environment of the domestic and data that we have achieved in this year, the growth rate for which I have already commented in the introduction based on a completely new stable economic conditions, which means that it is possible for the longer-term development to be based on such a change,... development generators, was achieved in the previous year from 4.8 to 5.3, meaning somewhere for, or that 0.5% points in the previous year. I don't want to comment on whether it's small or large, but I just want to comment that the GDP per capita has been increased from 7 grand to 7 grand and 700, meaning 700 euros per capita in one year. Whether it's small or much, I also don't want to comment. But the fact is he's been significantly increased. Also in inflation, I've already told you what our environment is. Inflation, although at the beginning of the year it seemed that it would get out of control, on average for the past year it was very stable with a rate of about 3.2% and thus stable inflation would also condition a stable development of the economy through these other elements. At the unemployment rate we've already brought out, we've heard the data. I'll just say that last year and according to the international methodology, according to the polling so-called. The unemployment rate has been the lowest unemployment rate in the last nine years. What about the rate of unemployment? It is a joy that every month, therefore continuously over the years, not a seasonal impact just during the tourist season in the last year. And for the data here and the press releases and the different data some colleagues use, I don't want to bring up, but the fact that it has been constantly increasing every month, reducing the unemployment rate and increasing the number of employees, and what's more, is that this number of employees clearly indicates that this number of employees is happening in the economy sector and that I told the private sector before that it is taking the initiative which is then a stable foundation for the development of society and the state in total. Through the deficit, we heard different stories about the deficit, and there will be countless more, but the fact that 3 whole, about 3 and something this year, the deficit indicates clearly that one of the objectives that I said in the introduction of changes in the development generators in society, and on the other hand, was to be achieved on the spending side of savings or to reduce public spending so that public spending could be redistributed to new sectors that would enable, and that is also through encouraging the small economy and the other, through the rates of incentives in this through different instruments of course that I will also tell about, and which then allowed the overall policy for these generators to start and employment, so the overall social development through such a way of employment. Here's all the data we believe has already shown the country's progress and stability this year. In the real sector, it is important that the basis of development is investment in this year and investment development, development in production growth, in trade growth, in employment growth. In this year, personal consumption as another demand generator in the domestic sector has also been increased, and as a third, we cite both exports of goods and services, regardless of how it is briefly commented, as it also negatively reflects on the growth of gross social product in the country. It is simply a deficit that is achieved on canvas, and it should be pointed out that this deficit that we achieve in the goods deficit is covered but insufficiently by the surplus that we achieve on the surplus of exporting services or on the realisation of services. So I repeat that growth in social gross products is based on exports of goods and services, investment in fixed capital, personal consumption and some supplies. It's a demand that has drawn this kind of social gross product and this kind of employment over the last year. Industrial production continues to be based on this industrial production based on the processing industry. The joyous data also that through the structural observation of employment and the same increase in gross and net wages recorded last year, I will subsequently present the data, which is currently being recorded in this sector, which means that this processing industry is finally becoming also one of the new and stronger, more stable engines of society development. In the processing industry, I'm looking at the fact that it would not be a relative relationship, the fact that it accounts for about 82% of the total industry. Here, that's why this data that I quote about this processing industry is important then for the overall movement in society. And so the industry is growing, food and drink production, and that's the correlation when we said whether domestic goods, tourism, development and overall export development, here's the data that suggested for last year that this sector is also significantly growing over the last year. The growth of retail trade has also been reported, however, it should be pointed out that this growth is also based on an increase in fuel consumption and oil, and we take it through two elements. And through the increase in quantity, and on the other hand through the impact of prices. We know that last year's oil price index was significantly lower than in the previous year. But when you take the index to a high year before about 40%, it seems to me, it's a very significant impact on this increase but also on inflation then. Also in this retail trade, last year it appears to me to avoid traps, but it seems to me somewhere around 77,000 and some personal cars, which is the largest import in the ever recorded Croatian state. Maybe it's positive. One colleague once said it is also an indicator of the rise in standards in Croatian society. We would very much disagree, and we do not enter this information as a data and the fact that prosperity is in the state, but the fact that it is this growth, so cars are all foreign production, negatively affecting Croatia's balance sheet position. Because so many imports, so many more debts, so much more foreign capital imports, therefore the biggest increase, the biggest debt comes from this sector of other so-called sectors. The others. And that's where the other companies directly in charge are coming in, but also this private sector that this way is in debt and this way has a negative impact. It is a contrast to the impact on the increase or increase of the gross social product. Because it actually reduces it by this relationship that is being achieved negatively in that part. Therefore, this impact that we achieve through negative imports of goods is achieved in three sectors, the most significant three sectors: oil growth, world market oil prices and oil prices, the second increase in steel imports. We know that Croatia does not produce steel and iron. And the world's largest price rise in the past year has just been recorded in these two sectors, the oil sector and the steel sector. So they had a negative impact on the growth of social gross products because they had significantly burdened society in that part. And this third sector for which I have already commented, the third sector of private debt or production. However, there is one positive and this is the sector in the development of industry, processing industry and others, importing industrial machinery and equipment. It has a positive impact because it opens up jobs which are shown through job openings in this section and has a positive impact that it also means stable employment but also stable development and in a later contribution, a positive contribution to the social gross product. Here, through that employment and salary data, through that data we see that all the stable movements in the last year have been achieved through the modified engines as we like to say, development. Here, through price stability in the last year, even prices have been reduced overall from three to two to three, but let's say stability, full price stability, which is the cornerstone of monetary policy but also the condition of stability of development then society and price stability. In monetary developments, here is the time at the end but just to say that monetary movements have achieved the basic objectives of the sector, that stability has been achieved overall. And one piece of information that is very interesting and happy in the past year to grow, that is characteristic of the growing stability of the kuna, that is very stable liquidity, that last year there was an increase in deposits in both the economy sector and the population sector. And which is characteristic that this increase in deposits was not only conditional on the growth of the tourist season but generally in the mass of the growth of deposits and the private sector and the economy means that this money, and we do not believe that the source is only in bank debt, greater through these all indicators of economic growth, also points to positive movements in society. These are all reasons, and for a few reasons that I will try to further state that we believe that the past year has precisely been achieved in comparison with the achievement of this budget. And I repeat that by saving on the spending side, we have increased incentives which are very important and we have also increased social contributions in the previous year, which is again the cornerstone of such social policy in that previous year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91038	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91039	Mr. Šime Prtnječa at one point compared the import of cars with the standard of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It really doesn't matter. If Mr. Šime Prtnječa as chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund followed the work of the Fund as the chairman of the Finance Committee follows the work of the budget, everyone would be better off. Now, that's the question of our standard. Somebody through the robbery, the others nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91040	My colleagues and colleagues! Let's be patient and listen... Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91041	Dear Mr. Vice President! Mr Prtenjaca, speaking of reducing unemployment, was normal data related to unemployment rates for 2005, for 2006 and by rates it was true that, for example, in the first half of 2005 it was 13.1 in the polling unemployment rate while, for example, in the first half of 2006 it was 11.8. And so it shows that the unemployment rate is really reduced by 30,000 people. But he forgot to say, what was spending, that in the first term in 2005, a million and 566 thousand employees were employed in Croatia and on the other hand in the first half of 2006, there were a million and 548 thousand. So the number of employees is down by 18 grand. These are official data from the State Statistics Office. We all have here so now we see how the government statistics can sometimes be used, and we have other data as statistics, so now let's see where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91042	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91043	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, It is clear, whenever it comes to debates on the state budget, that is, whenever it comes to budgeting, it is probably a unique opportunity for the ruling opposition to talk in the same numbers in different ways. And clearly, that's legitimate, that's what we're gonna do, that's what we're gonna do. But I'll try to be neutral, of course. How? Citing the governor of the Croatian National Bank. And now the governor says nicely like this: "If the whole of economic policy doesn't change, ours will no longer be ours but theirs." The governor says it's clear what's going on isn't good. Sometimes he says it's not bad. There are some good examples, I don't know, and there really are. When you drive the roads, you see these trucks to the Holcs of Rush, because if the Swiss hadn't come there, the factory would have gone to hell long ago. No one there complains, workers happy, unionists also have good receptions on the board of directors, all right. Mr. Polancec says privatisation has no alternative. Indeed, if the foreigners hadn't taken over TLM, Željezare Sibenik, Split, I don't know Sisak would have been in a lot of trouble. But despite everything from, and this last 150m-euro loan, signed by Minister Schuker with the World Bank director in charge of Croatia, I urge that no one play with the Ulnik who today is the only insolvency shipyard, and one of the conditions is the privatisation of the shipyard. But let's let it go now. The governor says: "At the interest rates at which foreign loans are agreed and provided that they are properly serviced in this year, it will reach 7.2 billion euros in charge of the principal and 580m euros in interest on these loans, which is the equivalent of more than 20% of gross domestic product. It is clear from here what consequences for the national economy could have any problems in the area of refinancing of the principal or growth of interest rates irrespective of their possible samples. In addition, paid interest and foreign bank profits, the profit the bank retains is about 2% of gross domestic product, or almost half of its expected real growth. Of course, this does not mean any debt slavery yet, but the fact that a country with such obligations is very sensitive to the action of external factors.", a finished quote and that's actually the point. So, according to the governor of the Croatian National Bank, 7.8 euros should be returned this year. Mr. Letica in my book yesterday I bought it, 180 kuna paid for 2007 mentions that it should be paid back 5 billion and 86 million kuna. But the point is that without a new borrowing by 2013, it means that in the next 7 years, it will be up to Mr Letica to pay 21.5 billion euros, and realistically, and realistically, gentlemen with new debt to Cain, and that will happen, that amount will range between 40 and 50 billion euros. Gentlemen, once again, paraphrasing the governor doesn't have to mean debt slavery. But that's a problem for the country, that's a problem for generations to come, that's a problem for those who will lead the country the next day. And that is, among other things, the result of the unfortunate privatisation of Croatian banks. The ones in trouble, of course, that should've been privatized, the rehabilitated no. The 8 rescheduled banks were sold for 4 billion 935m kuna, or 700m euros. According to DAB, the recovery cost us $11.5 billion. According to some Croatian National Bank theorists, 13 billion euros. If then we add to this deficit on imports which at this time is more than $10 billion Croatia is in trouble. And why we're in trouble, because it takes 23 billion euros a year, cca. 30 billion dollars in cash to serve foreign loans and a clear import of goods. Now, the question is, do we have these devisors? If we don't have them, we'll find ourselves in trouble. Although it is commendable, it should be welcomed that it is a public debt, i.e. Comrade State Minister Schuker reduced to 46% of gross social product. But the external debt increased to 84.7% from 75.5% in 2003. In this context, even some parties who speak of devaluation in my court are tragic. A 10% depression would increase citizens' debt again and businesses according to Croatian National Bank studies by 33 billion kuna. And the internal debt is about 250 billion kuna. And with that, I hope we don't play. In this small book, the implementation of the 2006 budget on page 26 is literally about the fight against corruption and crime. That item itself we see in 2006 weighs 15.5 million kuna. This corresponds to the equivalent of 40 coffees in Croatia's privatisation fund. I welcome the clearly maestro. I don't want to praise the government because there's no need for that, because no one praises an oil worker who today on 35 variances I don't know about, or if he's inside at plus 50, or who's standing behind a machine in a Cimus or I don't know who works in an office room. I don't understand how, say, the police minister doesn't know anything, and in my court, the police minister should know more than any president, government, state or parliament. In one word, it is good that the institution shows autonomy but it is not good that the government's supervision is 100% cancelled in the Fund and that no one feels responsible for it. When hundreds of millions of kuna came out of the Fund. If someone finally gave 50 grand for coffee, then what good is it to have? I'm saying this in the context that in order to control public procurement, again according to the Ministry's data, a Circa 9 million kuna has been singled out, and through that control, about 3 billion kunas have been slowed down annually in competitions, and I'm saying that today in that segment, such crime is equal if not greater than in the fund. Public enterprises so we don't waste words. We talked about the stock reserves four and a half days ago. About highways, water and so on. The last MPs should file these property cards. Before them, judges and drivers and members of the Fund and directors of public enterprises and commodity reserves should do so, and so on. And I'm saying that because I haven't found these 800,000 euros in this budget execution, but it's true that the item with 13, with 9 million and 400 thousand kuna in 2005, in 2006 has grown to 15.5 million kuna. It is a fact and now whether this is where the EUR 800,000 should be seen. ... And in 2007? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So we don't have the information for 2007. ... That's clear for 2006, right? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm talking about 2006 because it's about an action that lasts 12 months or 18 months. But anyway, the Croatian octopus isn't even scratched, it's not "knock down". These are the first big points, the first big points in the 1991 match. Let's move on, pensions. The cancer of the Croatian moment of corruption is retirement. Clearly, the poorer the country is, the more corruption it is. The richer the country is, the less corruption it is. After the election, institutions should be reorganised. How? We suggest radical decentralisation. The state rerouted the income tax to local self-government. You got yourself a win. In this god-awful decentralisation, the best way to go is to cross the country again, and mountain-mounted areas that are true. The second reason for decentralisation is certainly this health care system and so on. To get back to retirement. In 2006, 28.1 billion kuna was paid. Introduced from the contribution of 17 billion kuna. You need to even the old ones, the new ones. That's the government's top priority. It doesn't matter what the most money is going to give to those who create it, clearly the wealthier. But it has to happen as soon as possible. Why am I saying that? In 2006, and this is the implementation of the budget for that year, up to 500 kuna pensions were received by 61 thousand citizens. How did someone live with 500 kuna? I don't know. From 500 to 1,000 kuna, they're 116 thousand. From 1,000 to 1500 kuna, 156 thousand people are receiving a pension. Or it was. From a thousand five hundred to two thousand kunas of them as many as 295 thousand. Or from a million 38 thousand pensioners by 2006, by 2000, the pension receives 629 thousand 770 people. I'd prefer it to talk about budget rebalancing instead of this, and to talk about equating old, new pensioners, because there's certainly room for that. And I want to believe that by the end of this 7th month, this will happen and that such a proposal will be made by the Government to this House. As for other details, if such an affair was possible in the Croatian Fund, who guarantees that something similar is not happening in some bodies of some ministries? We know that Kutle, Gucic and so on are created by the money of the pension and health system. I'm reading, it has something to do with this because we're talking about budgeting and state of mind in these institutions. And so he's asking, for 2006, and the question is, will anyone be back to that 2006 job? You see, that's right. Let's move on. If it hadn't been for, I don't know, if it hadn't been for Maestro, I wouldn't have had the reserves until this calculation was carried out. So this is how we saw that I was really saying that the audit didn't work and that the state audit failed, it was baffled. However, I have always claimed that the revision of conversion and privatisation is a front to legalise conversion into Croats. And that is why it is necessary to reorganise the country. For the end. If we don't sink, it's under the burden of external debt. If we have the workforce. If we do not, if we clearly deal with corruption, if the converted capital does not rob us politically because it will have to move against them, if the import of the relevant capital is encouraged, this country has a chance. Not for the spectacular jumps we like to brag about, but there's a chance. It'll take more work, but I hope everyone gets better. So that's what we should fight for. What is especially me and what interests me most when it comes to execution is these guarantees. More specifically, the protested guarantees. We see financial guarantees from the state for the transport of these institutions, projects and so on are issued in the amount of 5.2 billion kuna. For the economy, two billion kuna. And another point 1.2 billion also for traffic. It's a legal guarantee of a billion, 465 million kuna. Total legal and financial guarantees reach an amount of 10.3 billion kuna. And what's far more important is the protested guarantees that they've brought or better said out of the budget carried 462 million kuna. Tourism has brought us, which we like to boast of 129 million kunas. Where did that money go? To settle obligations guaranteed by the state in hotels of Živogost, Podgora, Blata, Topusko, Medene, Omis, hotels Novi, Solta, clear Adriatic, Crikvenica and so on. It's Croatian tourism. For the economy 167 million kunas of the "DLM", agriculture 87 million kuna "IPK" Osijek. For local self-government, 30 million kunas. Istria is not represented on this basis with any kuna which is good. All in all, I didn't find it, I didn't find Liburni. She probably is, but I didn't find her in those materials. Here, I regret that, but here's what I'm gonna do to get to the bottom of it. Here's so much about the state budget debate. And clearly, don't mind, but when the opposition talks about this document on the one hand, on the other hand, it's clearly always an opportunity to talk about the same figures in different ways. It was simply so, but I think we must all imagine ourselves above the death of the governor of the Croatian National Bank who, if I am not mistaken, should submit my report to this House during the coming week. It will actually be a real debate about the conditions and opportunities this country will be living in the next few decades. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91044	Thank you very much. We have five corrections. I like to announce how many there are, so get ready to listen. The first is Mr. Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91045	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm just going to correct one of the false allegations of a distinguished colleague, Damir Cain. In fact, all of his discussions can be corrected as such at all, because the question is, what was he talking about? Here is the item of the agenda of the proposal for an annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006, and Mr Cain talked about everything and everything. From Eve and Adam to Abel and Cain. And now we go back to what's important, and that's among other things Mr. Cain said because as a measure of measure, he will objectively speak because the opposition speaks one thing and the ruling says the other. About the privatisation of TLM. Mr Cain made the claim that TLM was privatised by foreign investors, but Mr Cain, that is not the case, it is not true. The TLM is currently under way to operationalize the takeover of TLM from the domestic consortium. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91046	Thank you. Correction Mr. Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91047	I am forced to correct so that there is no confusion with the data of the Croatian National Bank and the data published in my book. The data he mentions from the latest Croatian National Bank bulletin, according to which 7 billion and 200 million euros are due this year, is in my book 5 billion and 200. What is important is to say that there is a fantastic civil service in the Ministry of Finance and I publicly thank Mr. Minister here, and especially his officials, because they allowed me to publish in the book the information that only 3 billion and 300 million euros were collected from all privatisation in Croatia. 3 billion and 300, and only banks worth 40 billion euros. So it's a thousand-year robbery, and it can't happen to create some kind of opera-send story about tenors, maesters, back-scramming, software and hardware. It's serious stuff. It's a Greek drama, it's no opera, gentlemen, and it doesn't have to be treated like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91048	Maestro's still looking. Pero Kovacevic, correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91049	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I am correcting three incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Cain. First, he says the state audit has failed to revise conversion and privatisation. It's not. It has found out of a thousand 556 cases that it has supervised that the privatisation of a thousand 481 cases has been illegally committed. Everyone else has failed, and neither the former nor this one has allowed the state audit to enter the banks as privatisation is done. Secondly, Mr. Cain is talking about the information of the governor of the National Bank. You forget that the National Bank of Croatia, with this leadership, has led Croatia into this situation by leading such monetary policy and look at the latest report by the European Commission, which says all the failures of the National Bank, the introduction of a monetary policy that has gone hand in hand to various monetary and banking institutions externally, importers and everything else. The National Bank has the same guilt, and now it can't call someone. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91050	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91051	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's colleague Cain incorrectly claims that 15.5 million kunas for fighting corruption are little, which is definitely not true, because the former government in which he is here and the IDS were infamously involved did not spend anything but form different agencies. He then incorrectly claims that coffee of 50,000 euros is expensive. That's absolutely incorrect. Because the most expensive coffee I know was drunk on the Supreme yacht where five members of the government paid for that coffee 20 million kuna from the Privatisation Fund. So an average of 4 million kuna per coffee is definitely the most expensive coffee in Croatia. Just driving still cost hundreds of millions of kunas, and I'm sorry that up there was no one from IDS, but they were engaged at that time buying villages and luck that they got out of the government because every village in Istria would get the owner.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91052	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Marko Shirac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91053	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In his debate, counterpart Cain said: In carrying out a revision of the transformation, the state audit has failed. Well, of course that's not true. Our Office of State Audit has carried out the control of conversion according to the highest European and international standards. It is up to other authorities to continue on those results identified by the State audit. Therefore, this is not an accurate finding and cannot be assessed in this way by its work.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91054	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek on behalf of the HSS, the club. In the meantime, at 11.09, the time for a 10-minute application expires. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91055	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, in my debate, I wouldn't talk too much about what the minister said but more about what he didn't say. Perhaps at the very beginning a small controversy on the efficiency of managing the state budget through a single or one jury account. Because here at the Privatisation Fund, it's proven to be the opposite. Our tenors were much more efficient when they worked through separate giro accounts, and even from the state they took several million euros for these activities through double giro accounts. What the minister wasn't talking about, and what I also don't see here in the budget, are the projects that we in the HSS Club expected to happen and that in the good part will be financed from the 2006 budget. I want to talk here about a irrigation project in Slavonia that has not been implemented at all, so it's not even funded. I also want to talk here about regional development projects, which is obviously not even political will. There are too many differences between individual regions. We all know very well that there is a price of construction land 300 euros per square cent in those areas where the highway came from, and in other areas it is 30 euros. I'd be happier if we talked about shipbuilding here, how much we spent on shipbuilding and what the effects were. Anyway, I think shipbuilding has a Croatian product. But I expected the effects of the recovery to be recognizable, that the recovery would have its predictable end. But the most I expected was that we would have more Croatian products in the Croatian ship, to try to climb it above 50% of the participation. But vice versa, this is where we stagnate. And even the labor force that builds these ships is growing more and more involved in foreign labour. I'd be happier if I'd seen a program in this budget for Slavonia called the "Island Programme". And every year we give him 300 to 400 million kunas, which, of course, I support. But I would also like to have seen it in the budget for the past year for the areas of Slavonia. Because over 300 villages in the last 20 years have been abandoned in Slavonia. And it is high time for us to understand what is happening in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia and to support it. Of course, there's something I want to say about agriculture. The peasants in the past have been given swine fever, they've been given bird flu. The only thing they haven't gotten is cow craziness yet, but they're going to freak out from this kind of agricultural policy. What happens in agricultural policy in the implementation of this budget? We've given more than 2 billion kuna for agricultural incentives. But when we look at the 100 biggest, under the quotes "agricultural" of course, they're picks and combines. They get 25% of the incentives in Croatia. The other 100,000 people who deal with agriculture in Croatia receive only 25% of the incentives. And when we look at the 2006 budget compared to the year before then we'll see that small farmers' incentives in agriculture grew 10%, and that 25 of the biggest users of the incentives had a growth rate of over 50%. See, that's for me, that's worrying for me. Because we have a redistribution that happens within the agriculture sector where big ones have priority, and the small ones are put on the sidelines. Why can they get that kind of incentive? The answer can be found in the fact that the state has left over 70,000 hectares of state land for use. And in principle it's the same state land they pay 4 to 5 times less than peasants. Besides, if they don't pay rent in a year, they're forgiven. However, the farmer cannot report to the tender unless he has paid the rent for the previous year. So HSS would be much happier if trends were different, if we were oriented towards a small family economy, to focus on those 100,000 people who deal with rural survival and that their incentives grow at least evenly, if not more than great. We cannot support the policy that 100 biggest peaks in Croatia use the total incentives in agriculture. And we can't support politics that big picks and combinations of incentives grow in 2006 compared to a year before 50%, and that small ones grow only 10%. We will probably agree, so I suppose the minister will not dispute that in the last 15 years, regardless of who is acting in power in Croatia, we are implementing an economic policy that does not produce the necessary results. I'll use the word "needs." It is characterized by already the well-known syntagma of macroeconomic stability that results in an increase in external debt, still too much unemployment and has what is very important to unbalanced pay and stock balance. We have hired the main budget, and so has this one for infrastructure and social contributions, and the manufacturing sector is almost completely neglected. Equal regional development has also been neglected. I don't think there's a strategy to implement such a policy, but there's also no instruments. I am pleased that what Minister Shuker said is that the growth rate is 4.8% of the gross social product, is only for the payment of external debt, as our distinguished Croatian economists estimate, we have to set aside about 4%, and our ambitions are to grow faster. Croatia expects us to do something about corruption. Here today and yesterday, the HSS Club asked the Vice-President of the Parliament to contact the prime minister who should come here to the Assembly and let us know what was in the Fund, which we can expect for the next 2, 3 weeks or months. Because it actually turns out that we're the only ones here in the Parliament who are uninformed, and everyone else knows everything, and we're just pulling the information out of the media. Why am I saying that when I mention this budget? Because corruption in Croatia is so widespread that it also acts as an indirect tax. And this affects the increase in cost of production, corruption affects the reduction of investment and this slows Croatia's development. I wouldn't really want to mention too much Croatian history. Because the Croatian past cannot be changed, but we must change the gentlemen of the Croatian present. And we have to change that today. You don't need those questions that are difficult, that are layered to leave for discussion tomorrow or in a week. In Croatia, I think the first priority is to fully address the issue of corruption openly. And I also think that we open up the topic of whether we're still spending too much, and we're making too little money, or whether we're spending more than we're making. Because that's the kind of spending that means borrowing. Debt means foreign borrowing in principle. And if we can't service such debt from GDP growth, then we have to hire property. Service means that valuable property ends up in the hands of foreign creditors, making national wealth a foreign asset. This is why we would like to open several topics in the HSS, including about privatisation and about privatisation of still those companies where the state has significant participation, such as the Croatian Telecom. We would like to stop further privatization of telecoms that has been announced for September. We would first of all like the telephone infrastructure or the DTK sewerage to be extracted from the core capital of the Croatian Telecom before we go into further privatisation and we would like to consider the possibility of returning Croatian citizens and local self-government money paid for telephone connections and building the infrastructure of the current telecom. We all know that we paid a thousand to 2,000 marks for connections in not so long ago Croatian post office at the time, and now we should buy shares even though we already bought it once and by paying the budget directly. Therefore, let us consider as finally some other countries did to return money to the paying citizens, to finance the development of the Croatian Telecom. We would like to see in this budget the effects of the announced measures on other state-owned enterprises and the prime minister and finance have announced that we will increase the rent for the use of oil and gas by 2.6 seems 10% to me and would thus find around 500 million kunas new for local self-government. The reasons why they would do that are simple. The gas and oil prices have Hungarians with 12%, Germany has 10%, Austria 20 on oil, on gas 15%, etc. However, we do not have this in the budget and I do not think that we will, of course, have for 2007, but that is why the club of representatives of the HSS will propose to amend laws that would slow down the privatisation of the Croatian Telecom and that would consider returning citizens to their participation. The HSS Club will also propose an amendment to the Rent Act where we will propose an rent from 2.6% to 12% to increase revenues for local self-government units. We are also not too happy that we do not see in this budget any other tax effects because the tax is the most active item here in the budget, so that tax reforms are gone, they will not be in this year either, it will be 4 years of mandate without it and we in the HSS felt that this is not good. We expected VAT with differentiated rates that would support the birth rate, then domestic food that would support tourism and press. We were expecting a tax on capital gains, but only for those who make speculative profits, because here's one of the tenors earned over $1 and a half million in the stock market and he put it in his pocket, he'll never pay the tax for it. We would be very happy to consider differentiated opportunities in profit tax, i.e. income tax and that exporters pay taxes at that rate of 10%. What HSS also advocates and will come up with this proposal to introduce a tax on monopolies. In Croatia, there is absolutely no doubt that there are branches of activities that are fully monopolised and which should therefore also be taxed for this position on the market, and money should be directed to the state budget, i.e. for some other needs. Here, the final expected implementation of last year's budget, and the indicators the minister spoke of, we've read in the media before, we knew what they would look like. The main question is whether we could and needed more, whether we took advantage of all the possibilities, but also all the instruments at our disposal. I believe we haven't, but we'll try to make it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91056	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Ante Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91057	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Pecek said that, he incorrectly said that no irrigation programme, national irrigation programme was developed, nor that what was set out in the programme in Slavonia. I remind him, and we all know together that a national irrigation programme has been defined, that through these regional development programmes we have increased funds from nearly 700 million kuna to a billion kuna and some million kuna, which was the income of this programme, the national irrigation programme. Here's an example for my county. So one of the infrastructure facilities that will serve irrigation the accumulation of Longja, the accumulation of Vrbova, the accumulation of Lonja is already in the final stage of production, the accumulation of Lonja is in the project documentation, it will be if God makes it out of these funds that are planned through this Regional Development Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91058	Next correction, honourable representative Tomislav Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91059	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's what I find incorrect in exposing fellow Pecek when he spoke about the aid in agricultural production, that small producers were put on the sidelines. I don't think that's true, that only great producers take incentives, incentives go to stimulate production through a hectare, through the throat, through... , incentives go to support income, capital investment and rural development measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this year, these incentives are 2 and a half billion which is 50% higher than in 2003. I also find it incorrect that there is no order in paying for agricultural land. That's probably some, but now that the register's been arranged there's no more support on one hectare of two or three or more support. The register is arranged and I just don't think it's true that the land, paying the land in any case, is settled for the term of office of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91060	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91061	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. President, the Rules of Procedure were injured because Mr. Tomic was correcting the exact data. I read the response from the Ministry of Agriculture that I received, so in response to the Ministry of Agriculture says that 100 of the biggest users of the incentives received one quarter of these incentives. In response, the Ministry of Agriculture said that the incentives grew by 50% and by a small 10%. This is what Mr Tomic should have read because the question, or answer to the parliamentary question, was on the benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91062	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, you didn't mention the article you're referring to. Dear Representative Marko Širac, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91063	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! A fellow representative, Pecek, cited the following in his presentation. The irrigation projects were not financed from the budget. That's not true. The government is not the bearer of the irrigation project. The water-indicator is an economic operator. The funds for the implementation of irrigation projects are provided in the items of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, but for the development of project studies and participation in the implementation of irrigation projects. Therefore, the state budget was provided in those amounts which were estimated to be necessary for the implementation of these projects in the economy during 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91064	Next correction, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91065	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament! Well, I am correcting the incorrect quote of fellow Pecek where he incorrectly said that we do not see any other effects of tax policy or reform in tax policy. It clearly states that the taxes collected amounting to 25 billion 233 million and 700 kuna, amounting to 9.8% annual growth or 1.7% above the plan. These are effects that are clear and irrefutable. And you've been put in charge of spending money through the Treasury, which wasn't in your past moments of practice, but as drunk millionaires, you've been handing out money and hats that stood in accounts for up to two, three years as human zones for entrepreneurial zones. And you remember the good city of Virovitica and the municipality of Pitomaca.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91066	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Representative Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91067	Thank you very much. Well, look, I'm not going to do the article on purpose because you're allowing Mr. Djakic to insult, to mention drunk millionaires. Maybe he had something to drink.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91068	Thank you very much. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91069	Mine, I must forgive.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91070	Yeah. You're insulting me. If you use syntagma as a drunk millionaire, it's no offense. It is known if it means one wasteland or something. Minister Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91071	Thank you very much, Mr. President, well, I have to react primarily to the Croatian public because Mr. Pecek's presentation on behalf of the HSS Club has brought forth a number of things that have nothing to do with the report on the implementation of the budget. And if some things didn't stay in the air, because it's a pre-election year, I'd like to see what this budget was about to look like that of my colleague Pacek. That would probably be a deficit of about 15, 16% and so on. But when we talk about the privatisation of HT, yes, Mr. Pecek, this government has decided to allow Croatian citizens to reach 20% of HT shares in the most transparent way possible. However, when you talk about DTK cables and when you talk about the return of Croatian citizens' investment, then I would remind you Mr. Pecek of 2001. You were sitting in that government when you sold a 16% control package. You know that one share worth over 50% more than almost all those shares before. You didn't charge for it. You didn't charge that stock. It's very interesting that you didn't open the DTK cable issue back then, even though there was that. It's not happening right now. The government had the courage and ultimately national responsibilities above all to raise the issue of these DTK cables. Because we know who worked them in the past. You are today asking the question of the return of investment to Croatian citizens. So why didn't you set it up when you sold 16%? Then why didn't you give those 16% the opportunity for Croatian citizens to buy? But what really surprised me, and that's why I answered. You objected to the establishment of the State Treasury. I'm just shocked. The Treasury is something that is the highest level of financial organization. The product of the Treasury, Mr. Pecek, is that this government and the prime minister now have daily information on income and expenditure. The product of this treasure is that the citizens of Croatia can read in a very simple way what their funds are spent on. The product of this treasure is also a monthly financial report that Mr. Pecek has seen for the last two years of the government you've been sitting in, not a single opposition parliamentary representative could see in madness because they didn't go out at all. It's the product of the treasure. The treasurer product is an internal control and audit that you could only dream of. And that's the product of this treasure. But when we talk unargumented then we forget that we are, and since I haven't talked much about it because we talked about budgeting for 2006, that a week ago in... signed contract on 100 million kuna for water supply, draining and flood prevention in the land area of Sava-Drava-Dunav... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Eura. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, a project that, in some economic sense, generates an economy, economic activity, increases in agricultural activity means almost if we're going to pull in some kind of parallel as well as the highway towards Split, which meant for Lika. However, in order to reach that 100 million on such favourable terms at 15 years with 5 years of beginnings, certain assumptions were to be made. Certain structural changes were to be made and so on in order to get the opportunity to talk about them. But also when we talk about corruption, we like to criticize ourselves. But there's something I'd like to say. Corruption is the problem of the whole world. And they're all fighting her. And even last year, at the Singapore Annual Assembly, the main point of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund was corruption, as a problem to fight. But neither as a parliamentary representative who ran from the other side since he would discuss the six amendments proposed by the government that you were sitting in, until today as finance minister, by digging through accounts, I did not find what you spent 600 million kuna from the 2003 budget on agricultural restructuring. It was that amendment that a fellow Churchman had to accept because it was a condition for the HSS to accept the budget. You've divided $400 million to remove the effects of drought, actually for the election campaign. But it's never been made public and transparent. We're talking about the Croatian Privatisation Fund. We forget about PIC "Vrbovec", at $80,000 a month's salary and embezzled 17 million. And here I'm going to publicly say, on a very strangely concluded contract on that famous Law on Achieved and Unpaid Claims, which, with the tax administration, the Ministry of Finance under that famous law, has contracted to beat up some petty claims on very, very large assets. So there was talk here about everything and also about the Regional Development Fund. If you looked a little more closely, you'd see how much money there is in there? It's very interesting when we talk about incentives in agriculture. With a billion and 600, miracles could have been done. Unseen wonders of the world. And with two billion and 400, there's nothing you can do. And that's what I just can't accept. I agree that the situation in agriculture is difficult. And that agriculture needs help. But, gentlemen, in the last year of your term, you've singled out a billion and 600 million for it. Two billion and 400 were allocated in 2006. They're exact indicators. Well, he didn't throw that money out the window. It's right in the... to whom they were assigned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so are the guarantees. Okay, we're discussing guarantees here today. But a few months ago, when Croatian shipbuilding was in trouble whether it would be guaranteed or not, then everyone cried over the shipbuilding. And today why are so many plea guarantees given? Well, the days are just for Croatian shipbuilding. But this government did not guarantee any private company within three years of its mandate. Two guarantees that did not go to Croatian shipbuilding, Croatian roads and Croatian highways are one Vartex guarantee and I am glad we gave it because it is a company that employs several thousand today. Which has a clear and bright future. They fought first and foremost the Vartex employees, fighting alongside the management, but today the company has a future. If the government hadn't given it here, there would have been no guarantee of that future. And they gave... from Zlatar Bistrica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everything else is here. And see, by 2003, how were these guarantees given and who were given these guarantees? Private shipyards. 500 million taxpayers' money went the same way as 20 million, yes, yes, as well as 20 million from the Croatian Fund... Here you go, sir. Just say the word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'll listen to you. Just say the word, maybe you can help me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91072	Okay. Order! ... Order, please! [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91073	But that's all you have to answer for and let me look back on deficits, unpaid bills, and blocked accounts. You need to look at which structure is...... Sir, I'm not correcting your incorrect allegations. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'll pick up after a couple of club hits. I guess I can say. I therefore responsibly claim that there is no indifference in Croatia. I responsibly claim that all expenditure incurred by the ministries, offices, budget users who have granted them this House of Commons have been subdued to 31.12. All expenses. That's my responsibility. I responsibly claim here in front of the Croatian public and in front of this Parliament. I told you not to let someone come with the bill once, so let's see who wasn't paying? Croatian Health Services. ... Croatian health care at the end of 2003 is represented by the current government of 100 million, actual 900 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today they are a billion and 400, and they are all included in the deficit of the state budget and therefore nothing is hidden, nothing is hidden. And the government budget deficit is 3%. And what Mr. Leco said let him dare, he's talking about some times and some party he belongs to. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91074	Order! Dear Representative Tonci Tadic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91075	Speaking of HT privatisation, the HDZ government in 1998 and the government in 2001 did not regulate the DTK issue. Neither did this government until today despite even the law that the HSP Club was... proposed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Neither the HDZ Government in 1998 nor the Government of the Coalition in 2001 restructured the HT before privatisation and exempt the telecommunications spine from privatisation and these are cross-city and optical cables like the Australians did when they privatised it. And besides the credible interpretation of the HT Privatisation Act, I was the only one in the assembly. A fellow Shuker then sat like the others. So these were all doubts that occurred both in 1998 and 2001 and the day today, and unfortunately not resolved until today, and I would like them to be resolved before this offer of stocks in the fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91076	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91077	Thank you very much. So it's incorrect that Mr. Secretary can't find out how 400 million kuna was spent in 2003? If he can't, I'll tell him. It was given to peasants directly to the accounts as a consequence of the drought. But I'd be interested in how 59 million kunas were given to PPK Valpo that same year, which should have been in the budget, you see the last one. Because I'm reading in the paper yesterday that PP Valpovo is firing the workers. They just received 59 million kuna tax write-offs to keep the number of employees. So I'm asking you to look at this particular example. It's not about peasants, it's about combinations that you supported, but it's not about effects. So we gave the private company 59 million kuna. They were supposed to keep employees, but yesterday I read in the paper to fire.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91078	It was now a question or a comment. Or in, the Minister's question through the correction of an incorrect quote, the Minister's question. ... My colleagues, though, are close to the election. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But yet we in the Parliament refrain from this kind of special form of communication, interpretation of the Rules of Procedure... All together [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of you, all of you. [[The intruders don't understand.]] I can answer that question for you about PPK Valpovo. But it's still awkward to set him up for me. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I, when I go to the election campaign, yes. The club of representatives of the CNS, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91079	Mr. President, I will, I will, I hope... Mr. Minister, Madam State, Chief State... This is the fourth calculation of the Budget which discusses this meeting of the Croatian Parliament and this is the third and final calculation of the State budget proposed by this Government of the Republic of Croatia, so it is an opportunity to talk a little bit more about the economic successes and results of the work of this Government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would, based on several very, very exact indicators that are stronger than any propaganda, than any propaganda action, paint the results of this government's work. And of course they can also be seen through this calculation. And this budget, as well as almost all of our budgets, is always said to be developmental and social, and as soon as it is said, something in the subtitle is said at the same time, and that means that it means that they are neither developmental nor social budgets. And none of our governments have had the courage to say this budget has to be developed so that the one in three years can be social. And with that, the calculations that are always the same as the egg can't start anything big with each other. It's retaining the existing state. Therefore, this budget, which is the same as the previous 3 budgets, could not have launched Croatia. It is also said to action HItro.HR that should have enabled more live economic activity. It's about an export offensive that was supposed to create new 5,000 export-oriented companies. It's about paying back the pensioners' debt as a major policy of success. But the information that is officially published is published by the institutions of this state, so the institutions that are partly responsible for both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia are saying something different. There are several indicators that are therefore above all propaganda views of anyone, both the government and the opposition. It's a matter of employment. According to the Croatian Employment Institute Report, the institutions of this country, i.e. the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia on 31.12.2006, were 293,000 unemployed and 31.12.2003. 318 thousand. The total reduction of the unemployed in the Republic of Croatia in those 4 years is slightly more than 20,000 and this is a major reduction in unemployment and this is the success of this action to raise and speed up the registration of our companies that will enable development. And of course, it's hard to imagine that development could be some kind of dynamic if there's no rapid increase in employment. The second dimension is the coverage of exports. Four years ago, she was 46%. Today she's 46, 47%. Therefore, in this segment, which is equally important, which speaks of how strong the economy is, how much export-oriented it has also not made any shift. It also stagnates in that segment. The third important indicator of the overall situation not only of the economy but of the situation of more social policy is the share of pensions, average pensions in average salary. Four years ago, it was unsatisfactory 42%, and now it's when you count and repay your pensioners 40%. What policy of increasing pensions are we talking about if, by calculating and repaying the pensioners, the average income of Croatian pensioners from the average salary from 42% fell to 40%, and the Croatian party agreement with the Croatian Democratic Community assumed that it would come from 42% in 4 years, and it did not happen but fell to 40% compared to 42%. That's how this shows, of course, the results of this budget. These are primarily some items where you can see to what extent the state administration is modernised and to what extent it can actually be expected from these items that there will be increased production and increased development in the Republic of Croatia. For example, some data are significantly deviating from what was the budget plan. So investment in computer programs that were planned with 143 million kunas was achieved only with 103 million kunas, and we know that without informing the state administration and all that is in the power of the Government and the Parliament there is no talking about how we will be able to improve the state of government. And almost every year, from year to year our plans for informing the Republic of Croatia which are not particularly rich anyway they do not come true. So this year, the plan was reached by 72%. Otherwise, most of the items of this budget are realized with approximately 100% and in this technical sense this budget should get the green light. So he is in a correct way the Ministry of Finance, that is, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has achieved a plan, that is, a rebalancing of the plan of this budget what is there, except in several of these items that I am going to talk about here, what is the problem that this plan was not good at. And that was also the reason why the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party and did not support that budget. Because he thought he wasn't developed enough. And this hour of these years Croatia needs first development. Another information that is frantic about costs, i.e. the money spent by the Central State Office for Development Strategy and the coordination of European Union funds. Of the 45 million kunas, which is not big money, depends on how we look, only 7 million kunas, i.e. only 15.73%, have been spent, and then we do not have to be surprised that this time, the realisation of the European Union funds and their exploitation in the Republic of Croatia is only 15%. I know it's not the final data, that this process is open. But one part of the time has passed and 15% of the achievement, the use of the European Union funds in passing times is not good. Therefore, this information that the Central State Office for Development Strategy and Use spent only 15.73% of the funds are not good data. And at the very least ask for an explanation from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Minister of Finance, if that explanation can give you. And now a few references to some of the strategic policies in our opinion that show in fact that in those segments that are strategic did not do much. First of all, it is the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. I spoke here yesterday on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club about a massive increase in funds for the ministry. However, the exact data do not confirm this. In its budget for the past year, the ministry grew at a rate of 6% or 106% while the total budget grew at a rate of 109, almost 110%. Thus, the share of the ministry's budget for 2006 did not increase but fell. These are the data that can be found in this budget. So as the state budget grew by 109.8% of the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports grew by 106.58%, so less than the state budget grew. So how can we talk about what the minister here in the introduction said about our determination is a Croatian land of knowledge. So we should increase the share of that budget, that ministry from about 8% in the total budget to 9%, 10%, 11% to 15%, and here this share does not only increase but decreases and we are talking about the Croatian land of knowledge. Yesterday we talked about a project of a national programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education and we saw how demanding it is to work, and in the 2006 budget of the Republic of Croatia for professional training and education of teachers and teachers, which is the assumption of lifelong learning, and who will first start to learn life rather than those who teach others, 44% of the planned funds have been spent. It was originally planned about 6 million kunas then increased by rebalancing to 10 million kunas, and only 4 million and 400 thousand kunas were used, so 44% and we're talking about lifelong education. Well, lifelong education is such a demanding project, and first of all, it should be tried among those who are self-educated and whose education is actually important, unlike some other activities and activities of the profession, and we spend 4,4 million kuna or just 44% of what is planned for this whole training project and teachers in primary schools and teachers in secondary schools. Yesterday we talked here as one of the important segments about the development of a secondary school curricula which is important anyway. We talked about the creation of a pedagogical stand, which is a presumption and is being delayed, and in 2006 for these two important functions of introducing compulsory secondary education, symbolic amounts were spent. Of the 654 thousand not millions but thousands of kunas for the development of the curricula, 437 thousand were spent, so about 60% and 142 thousand kuna were spent on the production of the pedagogical standard in 2006, the government's third year of mandate. So how can we talk about setting a pedagogical standard that's much more complicated in high schools than primary schools if we invest so little money? I completely agree with the minister and I said it yesterday in almost the same words as he said here today, that investing in knowledge at any level is not a cost. It is a cost that will be very quickly multiplied as a loss in some other segments and should not be considered as a cost, but there is no cost. The share of the Ministry of Science and Education remained more or less the same, nominally slightly reduced, but remained more or less the same as it was in 2005. There was therefore no movement in this regard, and the same situation with the year 2007 is the same, but we will not discuss this because it will be in the jurisdiction of the new assembly and the new Croatian government. And finally something from the Department of Defense segment. We've come up with a long-term development plan for the Armed Forces that says in 10 years we have to invest about 12 billion kunas. Transferred evenly to the year, this would mean that we have to invest about a billion and 200 million kuna each year, and in 2006, which is already in that plan, we invested only 386 million kuna in military equipment. What does that mean? That means the burden of modernising the Armed Forces is being transferred to some other years. It's the same situation as in 2007, and there's military equipment somewhere with about 300, 400 million kuna, and it's supposed to be a billion and 200 million kuna. So, in those two years, we're late every year with a difference of about 800 million kuna, so a billion and 600 million kuna that will have to bear the remaining eight years of the plan or plan won't be able to be realized. Therefore, we cannot talk about what the Government of the Republic of Croatia's position on what the Finance Minister was talking about, which is a confirmation that it is a general position that has been done a great deal. It seemed much less than what this Croatian Parliament, a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces, adopted as a plan. At the same time, at the Ministry of Defense, we have four thousand employees more than was planned. In the past 4 years, the number of ministry employees should have been reduced by 4 000 more than this is the case today, which is precisely where their salaries are included around the 350 million kunas invested in military equipment, so that this has been reduced and that this has been transferred then it would still be some 700, 800 million kuna and would have drawn close to this annual commitment of about a billion kuna based on the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces. Here's the reason. So I repeat, the budget in terms of its achievement is technically correct. Most of its items have been achieved with the planned amount, but due to its poor initial structure, the Croatian People's Party's Representatives Club will not support this reckoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91080	Thank you. Correction of only ten. Just everything and everything. First, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91081	Thank you, Mr. President. Not knowing what he'd say and how to characterize the budget, Mr. Radosh got involved and he used a syntagma or something, which means nothing. And I will say that it is incorrect to say that this 2006 budget is neither social nor developmental because there is no state in the world that has such a budget that is neither. It is both developmental and stimulating and it is a completely incorrect assumption that it is the same as everyone else. However, it is very different from any of the previous ones, if by nothing other than the introduction of this unique account for all users for the first time last year. And secondly, in order to prove that his claim is incorrect, I will only specify the data so that both developmental and social by increasing subsidies by 8% compared to the previous year and amounting to nearly 6 billion kuna. And at the same time, social benefits that are up 5% higher for citizens and households and only for defenders' pensions have been issued 15% higher, i.e. Almost 4 billion. More subsidies have been issued for maternity benefits. So both development and social welfare got a lot more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91082	Second correction, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91083	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleagues, Radosa, where he claimed that the economic successes of this government, which can be read by this budget, do not even say that Croatia has been launched, or that social policy has been used or that care for all segments of the economy in society has been done. In fact, it is clear that the deficit of the Republic of Croatia's 2006 budget, according to the accounting principle, is 3 % modified, compared to 2003, is 3.2 %... points less than it was then during your power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the Ministry of Defense, unfortunately, we have not sold a single rocket to the Madekonites, nor filled our budget or our state.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91084	Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Marko Shirac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91085	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Representative Rados said the following budget is not developmental or social. That's not true, of course. The facts that can be derived from this report are quite different, that this is also the social and development budget, because when an analysis of the spending of the state budget is made, then it is well seen from this analysis for social protection that 40% of the funds, for health care, 15%, for economic affairs 12%, and for housing promotion services 6%. So if it's not developmental, and we no longer live in a country where government and state bearer of building some objects and development, it's someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91086	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić, next correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91087	I am correcting the quote of my colleagues, Rados, who said that 4 years ago, the average pension was 42%. Not a colleague Radoš, according to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute 4 years ago or 31.12.2003, the average pension was 44.71%, which was the percentage of the 37% inherited raised by the government in which you were minister. The promise was made by this current government that the increase in pensions would be 50% of the average salary, but the opposite of raising for these... The government has reduced the pension rate to 39% and this is actually a picture of the success of the government and its budgets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91088	Next correction by the respected representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91089	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the inaccuracy of my colleagues, Rados, in connection with new jobs and the number of unemployed. For the sake of truth, I will say that the coalition government has opened up 33,000 new jobs throughout the mandate, and the reduction in unemployment at the time was the result of administrative depletion of the number of unemployed, while this government since 2005, 2006. 45,000 759, and estimated 80 to 100 thousand new jobs throughout the mandate. Well, in my county, there's only a number, a reduction in the number of unemployed by a thousand 133, and that the unemployment rate this year is the lowest in the last 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91090	Next, Your Honor. Prior to that, the violation of the Rules of Procedure respected representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91091	I think it was my colleague Lelic. So, I listed the data, official data from the Croatian Employment Service on 31.12.2006 and 31.12.2003. So she's talking about some other data. The truth of the allegations that I prescribed, or just read from the official record of the official institution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it was not an incorrect allegation, a correction of an incorrect assumption, but a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91092	You listed certain figures, but you didn't specify that, source, to quote according to. ... It's not. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91093	Here, Mr. President, colleague Radosh claims that this budget is not... but probably by that means building, say, Kosara at sea, Bobrovci, cementers and things like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, that the budget was developed, as the budget was being built, the work zones were being equipped. The infrastructure, the bus pipelines will be built over this period and more highways than during the last government period, is that it's a little strange, but true, and I just still have to say that we had a time in the board of HNS presidents locally who said for every budget that he was high and that he wasn't developed. Then when we asked her about something, she kept her mouth shut, but that silence was far wiser than what her colleague had now said.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91094	Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91095	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's my colleague Radoš speaking today about the budget for the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, but it's since yesterday he's been repeating how we talk and how we've defined ourselves as a country of knowledge without seeing it in the budget. But you can see that. In only 3 years, only in 3 years this budget has increased 22%. When you see for a half-yearly reckoning, then you'll see it's even bigger. Secondly, all the plans and all the programs we've outlined are being implemented and some are ongoing. Reforms have begun. I'm not going to repeat what I said yesterday, but I don't know what money that would have made all the reforms you've listed yourself without that budget being increased as you claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91096	Dear Representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91097	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So I'll go back to the data used by my colleague Radosh. It's true that the number of unemployed is down by 20,000, but that doesn't mean that only 20,000 new jobs have been opened. I don't know if my colleague, Radosh, has deliberately or accidentally forgotten that every year 35 thousand high school graduates, ten thousand are enrolled in college. So 25 grand is new to the Employment Service, same as the 3,000 new ones that finished colleges. So every year, we have an inflow of 28 thousand new ones at the Employment Service. If you multiply that by 4, it turns out that somewhere around 120,000 new jobs have been opened over these four years, not 20 like you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91098	Dear representative Nevenka Majdenic, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91099	Thank you. Well, here's Representative Radosh said this budget isn't social. That's just not true. This is one lie, because the allocation for the social component of the budget is increasing every year, and in 2006 it was 20%, i.e. 9 billion higher than the allocation in 2003, and the fact is that the concern for the social status of citizens is one of the most important priorities of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91100	And the last correction, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91101	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. counterpart Lelic and counterpart Nenadic have already corrected counterpart Rados on his findings and commenting on the economic policy in the Croatian government for 2006, and as regards certain macroeconomic indicators, first of all when it comes to unemployment and employment. I'll just repeat what's in certain documents, and that's according to statistical indications that the unemployment rate in 2006 is at 31.12. 16.6%, that it was 22.3 and 19.2% in 2003 in 2002, and then the minister was the current SDP candidate for new prime minister, Jurcevic. I will also mention in absolute numbers that the unemployment rate, that the number of unemployed in 2002 was 389 thousand and 2003, respectively. 329 thousand, and he means 31.12.2006 this year. 291st thousand. It's just...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91102	Thank you. Thank you very much. The club of HSP MPs, the respected representative of Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91103	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Your Honor, Mr. Minister! In the beginning, I must point out that it is the 2006 budget and that it is certainly just that it has been spent. So, it's been a while. We can only from this report, from this annual accounting try to see some trends that would be good to stop because they are not good for the Croatian economy or to praise those positive trends. But it's about past time. First of all, this budget shows that VAT has grown by 8.4%, so VAT revenue has increased by 8.4% to as much as 34.9 billion kuna. I think this is particularly important because it was the first year in which we had an interdepartment from the 10% VAT on tourism and for the first time the famous rate of 0% for organised tourist stays from abroad was abolished. Just introducing a 10% inter-step for the Croatian Parliament, for the Government and the Ministry of Finance is one really sensational move because it was in fact finally breaking that many-year-old school opinion that it should not be touched in that part. Therefore, that VAT should not be introduced, although Croatia was the only country in Europe with only one, the only VAT rate, with some exception, until then. The introduction of a 10% VAT rate for tourism, which finally brought Croatian tourism to about the same business conditions as the Mediterranean's competition, which all has a 7% to 11% VAT rate, thus the introduction of a tourism gap did not damage the state budget, but, moreover, continued to be well charged by VAT and more VAT revenues increased by 8.4%. So that's just saying that when the tax system is being regulated, it's best to edit it so that as much as possible the business environment in which our economy is with the business environment of competition in neighbouring countries. This is particularly important to say from another aspect, which is that Croatia is in negotiations with the European Union and that one of the essential parts of the negotiations and the tax issue and the exemption from VAT, that one of the essential parts of the negotiations with the European Union is possible to abolish a zero VAT rate and that Croatia, in line with negotiations with the European Union, must change its excise policy, so we may also experience the introduction of excise duties on gas or we may experience changes in some excise duties. For these reasons, it is important to mention that excise duties have increased by 6% here, that excise income has increased by 6%. But we also need to remind ourselves that the government should take the same step as it did in the inter-stage tourism VAT, and also try as neighbouring countries or introduce floating excise duties on oil derivatives or go in some other way to calculate fuel prices in order to facilitate the impact of the price increase of oil derivatives on the Croatian economy. And one of the typical examples of how it is done is in Italy where it is to remind once again of fuel for all who are engaged in economic activity at sea and on internal waterways taxed i.e. All Italian shipmen at sea, either on rivers, all who deal with the economy have blue diesel, not only Italian fishermen. And the Italians also respect the same excise tax directive on oil derivatives that Croatia also wants to respect by the basis of which our Excise Taxation Act or special taxes on petroleum products have been amended. So, I don't really see why Mr. Minister, in the future, and we follow this Italian example and to level out the conditions of our shipowners' work with competition in the Mediterranean either through the return of taxes, whether through an appropriate tax relief or the exemption from excise duty on oil products for all Croatian shipmen. In any case, we try to lead our economy to the same business conditions as competition. It should also be noted here that the property tax is growing by, income from the property tax is increasing by 28.5%. Therefore, this explanation of this annual accounting shows that this is due to demand on the real estate market. And we at the club are really afraid that's the real reason. The real estate market in Croatia, especially on the Adriatic, is turning really big money. And it's no wonder there's a lot going on in that budget. However, what is worrying, what is dangerous, is that rarely valuable real estate is sold very cheaply, often happens to be sold as agricultural land, and that after that the will of local self-government turns this agricultural land into a building property, which is not only damaged and deceived owners who sold this land but is equally damaged and deceived by the Croatian state and local self-government that could have recorded more than a property tax. I also welcome here a very interesting and nice income from the profits of companies, banks and so on. So from the dividends that the Croatian state has as the owner of a whole series of companies or profits that are in its hands and that leads us to that eternal dilemma here in the Croatian Parliament, which is whether the state is allowed to be a capitalist? Is the state allowed to earn money from the company he owns? Of course he can. And no one can challenge her, and what's only questionable is why is she selling these companies that make a profit to the state? Why does the state have to give up a tourist portfolio if it makes money? Why must the State give up certain shares if they are earned unless there are emergency situations or some unforeseen costs of the state budget when money is needed in any way. But in all these circumstances, it may be better to take a short-term loan so that the loan can be paid by dividends from these companies. What is worrying here, however, is that foreign debt remains very high. It's at EUR 29 billion. It reaches almost 85% of GDP in 2006, 2007. We're afraid it's gone even a little bit more. The only thing is that the foreign debt of the state has been reduced by EUR 390 million, and thus it has been transferred to the domestic capital market, resulting in a higher debt of banks abroad to service these returns to the state. So things aren't going to change that much just by changing the capital market on which the state is in debt, but simply by the lower needs of the state for borrowing, which means greater economic activity and better tax collection. What is terribly worrying here, however, is the fact that we have very poor coverage of imports with exports and in 2006, only 48%. And that the trade deficit of Croatia was increased by 11% in 2006. These aren't data that could cheer anyone up here no matter how much more VAT revenue or higher income than customs. The fact that a trading deficit grows annually by 11% is not a matter that leaves any of us here at peace. What we must specifically warn here is the fact that year after year the HSP Club keeps warning about, which is a ridiculous and embarrassingly low income from concessions. Croatia is particularly rich in water. This water, mostly water sources, is given in a concession for very low amounts. One of our proposals here and here is that concessions should be given in future to companies owned by local self-government or at least 50-50 partners with an investor. The concession on the exploitation of mineral resources is also as low as concessions on maritime well-being. The most valuable part of the Croatian ladies and gentlemen and its abundance of drinking water, its preserved space, its seashore and islands and its unpolluted environment. And we need to know how to charge well in concessions. And the example in this whole thing must be by the state that has to actually show how it's done? As far as fostering agriculture is concerned, we welcome that part. We are pleased that they are increasing, but it is bad that the incentives in agriculture did not go much more thoroughly. I would like to remind here that all our amendments concerning the incentives in agriculture have been rejected, including the one concerning the incentives for the restoration of olive groves. Because you know it's far easier to restore an existing olive grove than to build a new one and plant a new one and even use that famous machine that Hvar says creates golf courses, not olive groves. So the key lesson of this annual state budget accounting is that all tax changes and all tax reforms must be well simulated and must be directed on the one hand towards better charge of the state budget, but on the other hand they must also see the effects on the Croatian economy in order to bring it to the same business environment as our Mediterranean competition has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91104	Thank you. Club representatives of HSLS respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91105	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At first, let me say that we at the HSLS Club don't bother about whether this budget is social or developmental. I don't think that matters. He's wasted. And that it is one, she, what is certain and that fact stands and that everyone draws their own conclusions whether it is social and developmental or not, or does not see in it those elements. And another innocent object. What I think in Croatia, the finance minister can only be a man with good nerves. Which is like this, the flag itself. Because why would I say that? Because when we open this one, when we open any topic, then we always go back to the very beginning, to all of ours, all of our really old subjects and show up once again that Murphy law works when something goes wrong that only it can go worse and end. So, again, whatever we're going to discuss, we don't want to go back to the problem of privatisation and conversion. We're going back to the borrowing problem. We're going back to the foreign debt problem. And then it just turns out that somewhere in the past, we've made bad moves, we've had a bad assessment, we've had bad anti-cipulation, and now, it's now 2007, it's not easy to correct at all. Especially if there are no political and civil courage and will to change things or to make those trends that were then drawn to try to correct themselves. Ours, our first sin of structure as it was called the sin of structure, was that we wanted to view privatisation as a profit, as a profit. We thought the privatisations of the states would earn them something. Privatisation was still a couple of excellent expenses. For example, these are the western Germans, and they mean very well compared to East Germany, so they knew that they had to invest to catch the rhythm of East Germany with the rest of Germany. And that's the privatisation they've been doing in that space now, the new states have treated it as a cost, and not as a profit. And right, so did she, and since we looked the other way, and then we were forced to actually sell things into invaluable and give up our family silver. Then we got into some trouble that we're still under pressure today. And then after that, the sale of family silver has just proven that we are no longer sovereign as far as our own fiscal policy is concerned. And these are the facts and these facts actually keep following us and always beating us over the head and every time, it comes back to you like a boomerang. And then normally, in such a situation, in fact, what we have left is actually one political speech, a political rhetoric that you're trying to correct these bad economic trends. Well, then you have some promises that you will, that we will do a review of conversion and privatisation. Then normally let go of our own expectations and our own promises. And then again, in fact, after a few years we're back, so now we actually want to even get into the Constitution, enter a paragraph, an article that will sanction war profits. And it's just showing that we're actually trying to solve something that really belongs to the only market, which belongs to no other segment. But it's these very strong gestures that usually appear there before the elections that actually show something else, that we're actually going to repeat the practice that we had, the practice that we missed in 2000 when we gave up the revision of conversion and privatisation, when we said from last year in some way that actually doesn't make sense anymore, and now that we've dropped those bones out again. And it actually shows that the revision of conversion and privatisation can't be a political trick, a demagogue trick, but it really has to be a process that's going on. This latest case at the Fund just confirms it. And I think that, in fact, these things would have to be achieved or tried to achieve a political consensus in this House, not that political rhetoric differs between us depending on whether we are in a position or an opposition. And I'm saying these are the facts, these are the facts. As well, as we have privatisation problems, we also have problems with normal and borrowing. Is borrowing in itself a bad thing? Well, I'm sure he didn't. But if it's borrowing in a function like some say, taking loans doesn't have to be bad, if loans are used to increase production. It says as any household and state can be in charge and thus improve their economic position. If the household is in charge of buying a tractor, land and equipment, etc. which will give him an income greater than the amount of the debt, i.e. if the marginal income of the investment is greater than the marginal cost of the loan payment, that is good. But if it isn't then it's bad. If it's spent more than it's created, it's bad. And we were actually bad masters. What every household avoids and what every household does not want to happen to us as a state. And then we were just going to get rid of ourselves, that we were over 95% of the banks are no longer in our hands. And I keep saying, and it's exactly where we can look for some relationship between our unemployment and the fact that the banks no longer belong, that the banks no longer belong that they're not in our portfolio. And those are the facts. Because exactly the logic of these banks is something different than that, since they are in the hands of strangers is their profit only in the first place, and in no way does the opening of new jobs, the development of technology and everything that would actually be meaningful. So it seems to me that what has to be, I'm inclined to see a positive shift in the creation of this Central State Treasury that has in some way eliminated, liquidated these paraprocedural funds that were nothing but funds for, or places where the budget money was laundered. That was good. But it's not good that the same thing is exactly the government's debt to these banks, and then when it shows up like them, it's the best client. And in this way it actually creates an illusion, an illusion that our debt isn't as much as it really is. Also, we continue to pay this one tumultuous price of ours, the price of our 20th century history. Here I am from this book that I see and code, I've come up with something for two, three weeks now, my fellow Letica where he says, let's say he talks about pensioners who are entitled to retire under special meanings of favourable conditions and then he goes from the participants of the People's Liberation War to Croatian defenders to spending 923 million euros annually, spending exactly on pensioners. The word is from 183 and a few thousand citizens of this country who cost us 923m euros annually. There is a very interesting example of these that the MPs of the Parliament and the members of the government are 5.3%, and let's say the participants of the 219 million national Liberation War, let's say members of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, 1.9 million euros. I'm saying, but that's the price of our tumultuous history which is, and shows all the pensioners are, mostly, tied to or to the state administration, the Parliament,... The council, the government or indeed comes from this sphere, the sphere of these warriors and these words of wars we unfortunately had in the 20th century over every measure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now that you take 923 million euros a year, then we can really wonder what that would be like, if we could free up some other projects that would be in this function, the country's development function. And what I, as an agent coming from Eastern Croatia, Slavonia and Baranja, must say is exactly, that is the question of all issues, this even development of the Republic of Croatia. We stand for it and it is, it is almost like a mantra in the political statements of all political parties, all MPs. But now we have to ask how many of these mantras, how many of these common noble attitudes, how many of these results on the ground. And then exactly, and it would have to be because every time some injustice is done, or when it comes to this uneven development of the Republic of Croatia, then you actually have a whole series of political and economic implications of inducing some regionalism that has nothing to do with regionalism, to induce a whole series of these precisely psychological barriers in relations between Split, Zagreb, Osijek and Zagreb, which is certainly not good at all for one favourable, one positive environment in our society. But this is precisely because this decentralisation which should not only be administrative and which should be accompanied by financial means and which should finally be introduced into Croatia and a certain differentiation that non-tax policy and certain criteria should not be unique because the state has to be a correction that will introduce, which will make this balance between the rich not knowing the north or the poor south, or as it is called in the literature. A short time ago, counterpart Tadic spoke about the real estate market. It is precisely on the real estate market given to see what it means to have real estate, to have that happiness if you have real estate I don't know down in Dalmatia, Istria or have real estate in Baranja. Or, say, I happen to know no life in two cities, Rovinj and the White Manastir, which are the size of equal cities, but while in Rovinj you feel life pulsing, when you come to the White Manastir there is actually one stagnation, resignment and just one dissatisfaction and for which these people who live there are not guilty. Now the state has to intervene, the state budget has to intervene in order to actually create a permanent environment there and to catch that rhythm, and not that there is just such a difference between two Croatian cities within 300 kilometers. There is where we at the HSLS Club see and we want to see the role of the state budget which will then intervene in this way and which will just create assumptions for one equal, even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm just saying it's very, or it's showing up again, or I'm saying it one more time, we're obviously a rich country, but obviously with that wealth, we're not listed, nor do we have a catalog of all our properties. I don't think the state of this moment knows what the masters are with, and with what the lords aren't in office yet. I can't understand that after 92, in 93 C.E. when the Coopers, that famous military resort came into the hands of the state that 15 years had passed without being put into office. It's just you who wrote dead capital that your dead capital has as much as you want and then we're actually wondering why the situation is so bad and then it's no wonder that this kind of thing happens that someone can manipulate with it, can stir and then actually everything becomes composing in this society. I think it could have been put into operation a long time ago, but there must be models where the state will control it, where it will not be sold for invaluable, where we will not know mainly some tycoons were domestically foreign, and in particular we must not wait when we come to the European Union when the rules of the game may change. But I think that even then we can protect ourselves and that we can really protect the national substance, the resources that are truly, that are of vital importance, the forest, the water, the land, that it is possible and that no one dictates that it is not taking it or leaving it, but that it really is there, that it can be intervened there and that it can be put into the development function of both states and so on, those micro communities, the end where these properties are, or those resources where they are. That's exactly what I'm saying. I'm repeating our thesis from last year's same debate, the final catalogue, that register, that list of what the state is ruling to make once and for all. This may also be in the function of strengthening the budget which would then be also social, which would also be developmental because in some ways then could be invested in those segments that are acquiring circumstances will come into danger I do not know farmers by entering etc. where the state can intervene and can protect its citizens. That's why I say normally it doesn't happen overnight, that's why I have to say the process, which is why it's not a good policy of great strong gestures. I respect my SDP colleagues, especially my colleague Josipovic. It is war profit, but if it is only a parole that will remain behind which will not follow and action as unfortunately as on 3 January 2000 nothing arrived, there has been no revision of privatisation and conversion, even those who have proposed in some way have been silenced and said that it is not the time, that the Government is preparing something,... has happened. You know, if it's only a day-to-day political pre-election demagogy, then there's no behind it, and we're going to have people disappointed again, citizens who will be angry and then they're going to be mad at all of us because no one can convince us that we're missing opportunities here. So you can't ask someone else to do it but you have to do it... This House, MPs, must be the ones who will take these concrete measures and who will then allow just one happier and more satisfying life for more or less all citizens of this country because the question of human happiness is actually one legally relevant political issue, nothing else and nothing less. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91106	Happiness is deceptive. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91107	Coli Kramaric incorrectly said that in 2000, the revision of the conversion and privatisation was dropped, as the revision of the conversion and privatisation was carried out under the Law on Audit adopted in 2001 and the revision was completed in 2004. Based on the final findings, my club has proposed conclusions that were proposed to confiscate illegally acquired assets, annul illegal privatisation and the responsibility of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. These conclusions were not accepted by the parliamentary majority as it was not surprising for us, because it was the same policy, the same people who allowed such privatisation and the basis for what privatisation was done. So, counterpart Kramaric's privatisation review was made, but since sanctioning it, in 2004, the proposed conclusions were dropped.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91108	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Stephen Kozina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91109	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the budget for me is very important and important, because here we see the mass of some things that have happened, and they could have happened differently. At the end of last year, we were at Minister Shuker's interview and we talked about the growth of the budget where he claimed it would be 8% of the budget, and we claimed there would be more, because we were considering that there might be some places for some of the things we suggested there. But it was said not to be so and it was done. Here I would first of all talk about it because Minister Schuker said it was a social programme and that it was a great sensitivity to the poorest and most endangered categories in the Republic of Croatia, or groups. We see how much pension growth for last year and here it's said that inflation is 3.2 I don't know exactly what inflation is, Mr. Shime Luggage was saying that 3.2 is about, then we don't actually have a pension growth for last year. We're talking here, Mr. Schucker said that, the contributions cover only 60% of pensions. That's what you said, 60% of pensions. I'm here using your data on page 149 a little bit trying to calculate and I see here that all these pensions that are by law, so retirement 12... 395 million, then disabled 4 billion 366 and family 3 and 329. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's a total of 20 billion 081 compared to the total pension funds of 25 billion 241 million. So that's kind of a difference, somewhere over 5 million where pensions are according to other regulations, are not according to pension insurance regulations. So if we were to look at some of the things that we need to take care of now, then we could come up with completely different data. Look, when the new Pension Insurance Act was passed, a 5% rate for capitalising savings was taken down. Those 5% were not provided with anything to resuscitate those 5% because they were not to blame for those who had previously retired and who had lived before, to reduce that rate to them. So for that 5% if that rate were to be a 5% exemption, that would mean somewhere around 3 and a half billion increases, and that would just cover those pensions that are regulated by law. So 20, that would be even more. We have to keep an account of it, we have to find a possibility because whoever passed the new law and who divided it into three pillars had to regulate that true pillar of generation solidarity in a different way than it was regulated. We need to find opportunities to cover these funds because it's not someone's fault he's older and someone's younger. So those who have the opportunity to single out themselves for the first pillar of capitalised savings and the third pillar of voluntary savings have different opportunities than they used to have pensioners. So we should see about that. We should also see if pensions, pension contributions do not cover pensions then it should probably be increased. We also need to talk about the increase in the minimum wage, because I listened briefly to where a driver at a commercial company said he would get 2 thousand kunas as a salary, and 8 thousand years on hand. He asked how big his pension would be. It's normally responsible for these two grand you're getting officially, and on these eight, you're not getting anything. ... And how? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How? Well, alive they've seen, no. I think that should be regulated in such a way that it can be seen, that the minimum wage is increased to at least 3 and a half thousand because it should somehow be some kind of minimum existence that would cover a household or a working person. So that means that I don't have much longer around it, we should be standing well at the Mirovinski Fund, because look at the portfolio of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office should have been very large, it should have been around 30% of the social product around. We're supposed to be terribly rich. Now, the way that Peace Fund portfolio stands, I don't know. I'm not available. Last year, when there was a misdemeanor, or a report from the Peace Fund, asked me what was going on, that gentleman told me there was a court case going on about it, someone alienated something, something's wrong. And now we're reading from the papers that something is not valid in the portfolio of the Peace Fund. There's also some kind of research. I think now's the time to do something, not to talk to each other the way we've talked to each other. The pensioners were the greatest victims of the Homeland War and privatisation. We need to sit down, we need to talk a little bit, we need to make a deal about it, because the dialogue that was then when we talked was the dialogue of the deaf and the blind, about like that. So we didn't agree on what we were supposed to do, and we didn't talk about it the way we needed to talk. I think this year we have both the width and the possibility of having a proper conversation. I was expecting ministers that we'd talk about it a little bit, because it doesn't really matter. Because we have a very large majority of the population of the Republic of Croatia, so it's a million and 50,000 pensioners, we've heard because pensions are 500 kuna, thousands of kuna, thousands of 500, you've heard how much. So the average pension is 1,000 980 kuna, which is very little. Therefore, such opportunities exist in view of the growth of this budget last year, and I think it will be significantly, significantly higher this year. We need to sit down and talk about it because some things really need to be fixed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91110	Thank you. Final review, Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91111	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here's the pre-empty afternoon. I thank you all for the debate. As always it is normal for everyone to see in their own way, but I am as Minister of Finance and a representative of the Government extremely happy that we could have had such... the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-21-0.u91112	I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. An extension at 13 a.m. where we'll vote on one part of the debated points. 13 o'clock follow-up. Proposal for the Annual Account of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 I am voting on the proposal for an annual account. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 72 votes in favour, 1 abstentioned and 14 against was passed the Annual Account of the State Budget for 2006. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth I am giving the State Budget Act to vote on the Decision to give consent to the Annual Account of the 2006 Financial Plan of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 73 votes for and 3 abstentions and 9 against the proposed decision. Article 129 is replaced by the following: I am giving the budget law to the vote of the Decision on granting consent to the Annual accounts of the financial plan for 2006 of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 70 votes for, 2 abstentions, 11 against the proposed decision. I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the Annual Account and the financial plan for 2006 of the Croatian Employment Institute. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 72 votes for, 2 abstentions and 10 against, the proposed decision was made. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the 2006 Annual Financial Plan of Croatian Waters. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 71 votes for, 3 abstentions, 9 against the proposed decision. I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the Annual Account of the 2006 Financial Programme of the Croatian Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Energy Efficiency. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 73 votes, 4 abstentions and 6 against the proposed decision. I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the 2006 annual accounts of the financial plan of the Croatian highways. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 70 for, 3 abstentions and 11 against the proposed decision. I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the annual accounts of the financial plan for the year 2006 of the Croatian Roads. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 65 votes for, 6 abstentions and 12 against the proposed decision. I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the 2006 annual accounts of the financial plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 73 votes for, 4 abstentions, 7 against the proposed decision. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the annual accounts of the Croatian Privatisation Fund's financial plan. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 56 votes for, 12 abstentions, 16 against a decision has been made. I am voting on the next conclusion of the 2005 report on the use of the budget stock. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 71 for, 2 abstentions, 8 against, a proposed decision. Ladies and gentlemen, the remaining points discussed, such as the Law on Foreigners, such as the Law on Asylum and these six laws relating to the right of industrial ownership, will be voted on next week for further harmonisation and adoption of the Government's position on the proposed amendments. We will continue the session at 9.30 p.m. on Wednesday with point 17. Business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families and thereafter reports by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian Small Economy Agency and the Law on Agriculture, Social Pensions, the Health Protection Act, etc. and after that, to discuss the government's trust and to set up an investigative commission. Continuing 27th at 9.30 p.m.
