ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86361	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we've built 2963 apartments at this time in stimulating housing. By the end of 2003, 906 apartments were built. 750 apartments are in construction phase and 654 are in preparation. As we in the State budget have provided a lot of funding for stimulating housing, we have requested and are constantly asking units of local self-government for land insurance to build encouraging housing. How we simply can't get it anymore because units of local self-government don't have land because most of the land is being returned, and on demand we've been calling two or three competitions where we've tried to buy land and together with the local self-government unit and build buildings, we haven't succeeded because the land prices are very high especially in large cities where it's actually the greatest interest in stimulating housing. As a result, we have prepared a proposal for this, an amendment to the Law on POS, where we propose that the land price which is maximum in the Law on Incentive Apartment 70 EUR per square of net useful area be increased to 140. Although, of course, flats could not cost EUR 910 more than EUR 980 per square, which still means EUR 70 per square, which remains the most favourable price. But it must be said that there is a possibility that units of local self-government if and have their land still give land or free as the city of Zadar has done for example or that it is given or that the price is significantly lower. The second thing we propose in this law is to abolish Article 18. The law which said that land-owned builders could be directly contracted for the performance of works and sales of apartments to POS, with a maximum price of EUR 980 per metre of a square net useful area being established there. With that, with that, we had the most problems with our work, and I have to say, that's how 471 million and 132 thousand kuna were arranged for such a job, with about 90 million kuna being agreed only in Varazdin with the Coning company. We therefore believe that such a job where the builders could offer their land and build without competition and complete municipal infrastructure to build without anything that is simply inappropriate. We didn't make any such prenuptials. As far as this kind of work is concerned, you all know together, and there was enough in the press, for example, Brodarica in Split. With Brodarica in Split and today we have problems because the maximum value of construction is agreed. So they're agreed on communal infrastructure. They've been set up for land. They've been arranged to perform the work. The total value of EUR 910 per square metre with the fact that today when the city of Split is working and running a judicial dispute with the company that performs the works of the city of Split will do so for much smaller means, which means that people should pay less meters of square land. We suggest that this article 18 be abolished and simply no longer negotiated with the builders any work directly and we propose, once again, we have not made any such contract, pre-contract, and therefore we suggest that APN can become an investor when the local self-government unit does not want to or cannot do so for any reason with that they then acquire land and perform municipal infrastructure and actually do the complete, complete work. We're sure it'll be a lot simpler and much better. There's another big problem. And that big problem that we had all along is that the list of apartments were made de facto by heart. And that people were showing and, in fact, local self-government units were making proposals for construction, for building apartments. You just know that because we couldn't sell we bought 138 apartments for the victims of the Homeland War because it was more favourable and we didn't know what to do with those apartments and our victims needed it. One more thing we suggest is that in 10 years, it is not possible to resell apartments because we have such cases in Zagreb and Split, and we think that it is not good and that these people who have come to the apartment in such a favourable way and on such a long time, long period of payment that they simply can't sell these apartments for 10 years. If any of them are in need, they can sell that apartment but then they have to settle the difference to the market price. So we made it possible, and here we think that with these changes, we will further encourage those, encourage the construction of these apartments from the incentive housing program, and we think that no one can say that this country has stopped the construction of POS because it is clearly said and I have made it clear to you that once again we have built 2963 apartments. 750 is in construction phase before completion and 654 are in preparation. I ask you to accept such a proposal to amend this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86362	Thank you. Working committees, social policy and health care? For local and regional self-government? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ representatives, respected representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86363	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Parliament. Part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia under market conditions of sale of apartments is not able to acquire an apartment owned for the purposes of their housing. Therefore, the fulfilment of the housing needs and improvement of the quality of housing of these citizens is governed by the applicable law by organised housing encouraged by public funds provided by units of local self-government and the Republic of Croatia. Public funding encourages organised building of apartments and houses intended for sale at prices significantly lower than the market, with the possibility of payment on a favourable basis in terms of interest and payment deadlines, and primarily for citizens who first acquire an apartment for their own purposes, local self-government units and other legal persons to rent apartments, and as you know, these are substitute apartments, social and other apartments. The investment business operator in relation to the construction and sale of apartments is the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation APN. The Agency shall establish the implementation programme of social promotional housing, so-called the POS programme according to which the Agency provides the necessary funds for the construction of apartments. We heard from Madam Minister that everything in the past three years has been done to realize this program, that 2961 apartments have been built and that a significant number of apartments are being prepared for construction. I must say that, in addition to this information presented by the Ministers in the realization of this for me by the State Programme which is working in the co-operation of local self-government units and of course by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other legal persons, institutions that want to participate in the truth have established order and transparent behaviour and to solve the problem of a part of our citizens who cannot solve this issue with their own resources. And if that were the case here, I tried to get a State Audit report on the business of the competent ministry in 2003, so let me just read the conclusions of the State Audit on the work of the APN Agency over the past period since it was established until the time when this ministry and this APN leadership took over these jobs. Here, please let me take it out. On page 76, on the basis of the audit carried out in 3.4.2004, our Office of State Audit established the following. Veli, transactions were negotiated which were not necessary for the implementation of the POS programme and which other entities were to finance. So, someone else's job was done. Certain procedures in the implementation of the POS programme have not been implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Encouragement Building, Public Procurement, Construction Act and this consent for direct contracts was subsequently obtained. So first the contracts and then the consent is obtained. So where's that on the globe? Where can it be in the rule of law? The competition was accompanied by data from an idea project, and whoever was involved in the construction knows that when an object is built by any investment facility contract based on an idea project, the cost of building this facility is questionable. It'll be a few percent or ten percent higher. The call for competition data is different from that in the tender documentation. Project documentation made prior to the adoption of detailed urban plans. It was negotiated at prices higher than planned and secured. In the case of land purchase, a higher amount was agreed than the law permits. The contract concluded with the builders has repeatedly crossed the insurance funds in the ministry's budget. And let me just say this in the end. From 2001 to 2003, it was planned to make 3280 apartments of an average size of 65 meters, and only 906 apartments were built. So for the occasion of the same period, the ministry, i.e. APN, has now built 2061 apartments. Of course, there's still a significant part of the apartment in preparation. And now let me look further at our club's name on these proposed amendments and additions to the Socio-Incentive Building Act. The current law has identified certain difficulties that need to be removed and some provisions of the applicable law are complemented in order to ensure additional resources for the implementation of the POS programme under new conditions, the provision of building land for the construction of apartments and houses, and to regulate the mutual relations of participants in the implementation of the programme. This primarily refers to correction, i.e. A rise in the prices of apartments built and purchased under the applicable law under the POS programme as the market price of building land has increased in certain settlements and large cities and up to 100%. At the same time, construction prices of 700 euros per meter per square metre remained about the same level over the past 5 years. For the implementation of the POS programme, local self-government units are mostly no longer owned by building land, so it is necessary to allow for an increase in prices by 100% in which land is allowed to be purchased. Therefore, the current land price of 70 euros per metre per square metre would also lead to an increase in housing prices. According to APN data, the current average price, the sales price of the apartment in POS was 910 euros per metre square. Based on the calculations made in the case where land at a price of 140 euros per square metre is provided by the local self-government unit, it can be determined that the average selling price of the apartment will rise to 980 meters per square metre, which is the addition of 7.7%, with monthly annuity payments of up to 8.6 with a naturally repayment period of 31 years and approximately the same interest of 3.72% per year. In the event that APN provided land and the necessary municipal infrastructure, the prices of the apartment would also increase by 7.7% but the monthly payment of the annuity would be slightly higher and would be 13.22% with a 31-year repayment and an interest rate of 4.1% per year. We note that the prices of apartments of the same quality are on the free market and 100% higher and reach 2,000 euros and somewhere over 2,000 euros. Therefore, we believe that the increase in the price of POS apartments should be paid by the purchasers of apartments, with additional credits being provided to them by the commercial banks, to which the banks agreed with POS, the APN leadership and agreed, i.e. the agreement. So far, in the implementation of the POS programme so far, in the event that the unit of local self-government provides land and infrastructure the amount of these investments in the sale price of a meter of a square apartment amounted to up to 210 euros per metre of square, or 30% of the Ethlon price of construction. By increasing land prices by 70 euros per metre square metre, it would be 280 per metre square, or 40% of the Ethlon construction price. The additional funding needed to increase investment in our assessment cannot provide units of local administration as this would be a significant burden for them. For this reason, the funds to increase the investments of local self-government units will settle the APN at 35% of the value of construction land and 35% of the value of municipal infrastructure. By supplementing Article 6 of the current law, the bill promoter has arranged a detailed procedure for the settlement of increased investments to the local self-government unit, and this process will be carried out by the APN. The amendments to Article 13 have established the possibility that in justified cases APN can buy construction land at an increased price that cannot exceed 140 euros per metre square metre and provide financing for the regulation of the municipal infrastructure provided that the price of the arrangement cannot be higher than 20% of the population's Ethlon price. The amendments to Article 17 set out that no public contribution is charged to the implementation of the POS programme. The Agency is obliged to conclude a contract on the development of the necessary infrastructure with legal persons performing certain municipal activities in local self-government units. I think that, that provision regulates the relationship between the local self-government unit and the POS agency because, of course, these jobs will be entrusted to whoever otherwise maintains that infrastructure and operates in that local self-government unit. The expropriation of Article 18 prevents the avoidance of competition that took place in the conclusion of a direct contract with legal and natural persons authorised for works of construction that provided building land for the construction of apartments. Here I am free to mention the previous part of my presentation in which I highlighted the State Audit report. Amendments to Article 19 of the sales price of POS apartments are limited to 980 euros per meter per square metre or cannot be more than the Ethlon construction price increased by 30%. I stress that this provision ensures the protection of customers, i.e. The citizens by whom this POS programme addresses the life issue of the apartment. Finally, the provisions of the new Article 28 determine that the owner of the apartment bought under the POS programme cannot alienate the apartment within 10 years of the date of the conclusion of the purchase contract. The sale may be granted with the agreement of the Agency provided that the buyer pays the difference between the sale price of the apartment and the actual price on the market. The provisions of this article will prevent the achievement of inappropriate earnings in a programme which aims to meet housing needs and improve the quality of housing. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86364	Thank you. HNS MPs' club, a respected representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86365	Good afternoon. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. The Croatian People's Party MPs' club, liberal Democrats, first of all, retain the satisfaction that the POS programme on the occasion of amendments to the law, and through the Croatian Government's assessment welcomed finally its recognition and the right of citizenship. We have witnessed in the last three years a variety of attempts to encourage housing to challenge or find a better one. None of those attempts worked. A for marketing popularity, for example. Zagreb's housing model has been thrown huge money from our tax collectors into the wind. The government is crazy, literally insane. The government proposes these amendments and additions to the Law on Socially Encouraged Stanobuilding, in its assessment finally after three years admits that the model is meaningful and socially beneficial. With its implementation from the beginning of 2001, POS became desirable to compete with a construction explosion that uses a chronic deficit of flats on the market to veer square prices at the expense of desperate citizens, and often through construction companies, money introduced into the original robbery of capital from the 90th feathers and once again create new added value on the back of ordinary man. And in this very financial, very lucrative fact, regardless of the many needs of citizens for housing squares, there is a number of years of obstruction of this programme at all market-attractive levels, except for the level of users themselves. As far as the amendments to the law are concerned, I'll go in a row. First land-gathering. I acceptably assess the proposal for a decision to increase the land price from the current 70 euros to 140 euros per metre of square residential area. It is mainly so that the spaces are highly urbanized with a higher building coefficient and also places where the high land price is and vice versa, the low coefficient areas of construction are the areas of lower land prices, but are therefore weaker or by no means communally equipped. However, in part of the proposal relating to the increase from 10 to 20% of the Ethlon value, which is the total cost of the construction, which is the total cost of the construction, and in order to increase the price of the building land and to increase the cost of lending from 70 to 140 euros to the buyer, the tax administration in the units of local self-government should have determined these amounts. This is how the law took over. Praises would also be expected to result in a larger number of land sites being offered by local self-government units in this state-driven programme, and will not significantly affect the price of the apartment. I would point out that from this experience so far, we have situations where local self-governments are very aware of the needs of their citizens to meet their citizens, so some individuals of local self-government such as when Mr. Kalmeta was mayor, they gave their citizens land for bad, namely to taxpayers to others. In this way, the price of the apartment in Zadar was 660 euros per metre square, so on the way. However, it is precisely for the same reasons that it is quite unclear why Article 18 where there was the possibility to include legal and natural persons in the programme with their land, project and construction without a public tender if they meet the criteria of ethanol, provide a guarantee for implementation, the selling price forms up to 95% of the highest price of the programme. Local self-government units take over infrastructure and connections, there is an interest in buying, and the land price should remain within the limits of this law. So by erasing this article, the proposer significantly narrows the possibility of offering potential POS locations, even moreover creating assumptions that using political instruments of manipulation, that is, pressure on the leadership of certain municipalities and cities, the whole project raises questions about the alibi that local self-government does not have its own land, in order to meet its citizens and offer them to buy cheaper squares of apartment instead of those commercial ones that have no way to reach the price of 3 thousand euros per square metre, with an estimated earnings of between 1,000 and 600 and 800 and 800 euros per metre of a square apartment. I wonder whose interest is there? You MPs and citizens judge that for yourselves. As far as the cost of construction and collection is concerned, it is clear that the last five to six years of construction prices have grown somewhat, but certainly less than land prices. So this proposal will leave the apartment from a maximum of 910 to 980 euros per metre square, but the price structure will remain the same. Etalon 700 euros for construction, while municipal infrastructure, connections and final land will receive more financial space than 280 euros. There's another note. Unfortunately, the proposal has one flaw that can be corrected until another reading. In Article 5(4), it would be necessary to exclude from the cost of construction other than land, municipal infrastructure and connections, as it is also a water contribution, since it is an imposition that was subsequently adopted in relation to the POS Act, and it is difficult to find a space of an additional EUR 20 per square for the costs of a water contribution in the price structure for the often high cost of municipal equipment. Although Article 2 is not clearly written enough to add paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 6 of the basic law, it is acceptable and even directed, that when a local self-government unit provides land from money paid by the customer on the basis of a signed contract, 35% immediately says within two months, allocates to a local self-government unit because it is expected that the same unit of local self-government will engage in the preparation and implementation of municipal infrastructure. Although this is already the second amendment and the addition of the law in the last three years, which clearly makes it possible to read the government's good intentions that, apart from confirming the legitimacy of this irreplaceable project, there is still some improvement in it, I cannot critically look back on the agency and the dynamics and way of realising the apartments in this programme. It is embarrassing, i.e. almost no effect of the newly-componed Article 30 in the amendments since June 2004 where public funds are proposed to encourage construction and reconstruction, in the construction and upgrade fences, buildings and family houses, which provide a new living space for natural persons. According to this legal advantage, to this day the credit has reached and solved the living space of fewer people than all of you here have on the fingers of one hand. Why? Because the conditions are monstrously bureaucratic, rigid and don't motivate people to go into such complicated procedures. I can't take a critical look at the dynamics of organized apartment building. In December 2003, we left 10 thousand 649 apartments in 87 cities and municipalities in different stages of construction. The sighting of gentlemen on the APN's pages in the recapitulation head clearly shows that today the total number of apartments in also various stages of construction at the level of 5 thousand 699 apartments. Of these, a total of 4000 482 apartments were realized. I note that exactly the value of this project is in its revolving effect because the funds from the apartments sold are constantly engaged in new projects. As this number declines, the desired financial effects are lost and the silent program is shut down. So while this government is supporting a declarative project because the conscious effect on desperate citizens is eager to stop de facto by neglect, incompetence and slow dynamics obstruct it. Namely, finding and realising apartments at only two new locations in the country in Kutina and Dug Selo with a total of 50 apartments regardless of the rich dowry we left for you in projects and contracted business indicates that in APN almost nothing or little is done. In particular, there is little work to be done on the new preparation, and the situation could sooner be qualified as maintenance of the cold drive. I cannot accept and reconcile with the fact that APN simply fired the City of Zagreb projected contracted documentation for 70 million kuna and thus denied the possibility for citizens of the City of Zagreb from the POS list of championships to buy an apartment of 910 euros per metre square metre. Today, on these same projects that have already been defined, all-powerful changes are being invented and transactions are being negotiated to justify these same apartments, that these same apartments offer 400 euros more on the market, i.e. For a thousand 290 euros per square. Who's there and whose interest is that? Who does this government do this for when it gives jobs to the City of Zagreb? There is no fair argument that will convince me that at the time of Mayor Pavić and the current Bandic, after holding in your hands the rightful pre-contract, mutual rights and obligations, on land concessions, of 32 hectares in the Republic of Croatia as a unique whole, with that pre-contracting has the weight of contracts and contractual obligations. From a period of our authority through various methods of negotiations and the authority of the supervisory authority you know how to use well in some other circumstances where you were more interested in still were not willing to build the Zagreb apartments at more favourable and acceptable prices, i.e. 900 euros per square. What are the hidden reasons why citizens have to pay these apartments 400 euros more? I would like to point out once again that by slowing down the realisation and obstruction of POS, especially in Zagreb and some other cities, you are benefiting from the deficit of apartments on the market and the wave of building square prices in the apartment. So, uh... You're guessing at least with a construction lobby. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From all of this, the government has no intention of encouraging housing, and the citizens cannot count, nor will the government meet their needs or anything they can expect from such a government. One-digit credit numbers for upgrades and upgrades. With the exception of Kutina and Long Village in 3 years no preparation. Deleting Article 18 is just another one in a series of restrictions that restricts expansion of encouraged housing and while feeling the decline in the scope of construction works at all because of the poor dynamics on the roads instead of encouraging housing construction from this balanced and citizen-accessible government wants to prevent a wider range of small contractors from actively engaging in this programme, but is therefore undetected to tolerate privileged companies waving prices on the real estate market. You have not so long ago a great article by Mr. Kalojere. Read it, it's called "capital, Mafia, construction mafia." Finally, I point out in particular Article 28a which limits the turnover of POS apartments within 10 years, subject to payment of the difference to the actual market price of the Agency's apartment. In addition to technical shortcomings since the article other than the Agency must also mention non-profit legal persons established by local self-government, the question of who will determine the actual market price of the apartment is also raised. Is that the IRS or something? HNS believes it is useful to bring more order into the real legal availability of the apartment. Violators and profiteers need to be punished, they once and for all consumed their right to an apartment and the sanctions is precisely that they lose any right to further resolve the housing issue through POS. However, the exceptional nature of this provision should be excluded from those cases where the owner of the POS apartment, while respecting the POS criteria, needs to either increase or reduce the housing square. It should then be allowed to sell the apartment at a purchase price, i.e. it needs to be given priority, the right to re-competition and purchase of a larger or smaller apartment in the same programme. The life of gentlemen is more than a paragraph, so I suggest that by the second reading you consider that one who has the need for a bigger apartment because his material circumstances have improved in the family, his family has increased, within the POS he can buy a new apartment under priority circumstances as well as situations where perhaps a professor's couple whose child has gone to study or moved away... Reduced the war of their monthly rents for an apartment of any weak professor's admissions and replaced their 60 squares by, say, 45 squares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After all, anyone who sells an apartment in POS first pays off everything to the bank, to local self-government, to the state with all the interest from which it is then possible to resolve another qualified customer from the list, and if by traffic he created an additional income, he is already obliged to pay a tax on the additional price achieved in the first three years. In a riot that governs urbanism, in the absence of the Law of Urban Comastation, in the mess of spatial plans and successive changes in measures, in the unsettled monasteries and land books, unfortunately no one is working on preparing or implementing a system-based housing policy. I'm telling everyone they're wrong to comment that the state has nothing to interfere with in the housing sector. These are the existential interests of our citizens and states, and it must certainly intervene where there is an explosion... housing squares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, it can be concluded that it only pleases some by its inert. In the last three and a half years, I haven't responded to the dynamics of implementing this program.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86366	My colleague, please conclude, time has passed long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86367	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86368	Please. At 10 o'clock and one minute, it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First of all, the esteemed representative Marko Shirac. ... You're right, you just wrote me 10.41 yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You need to write it down. When the medical handwriting is written, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86369	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleague Alenka Shain has made so many incorrect allegations that it would take me at least 10 minutes to fix them, but allow me as much as I can. Say it like this. By deleting Article 18, of course, the proposal for this Law makes it difficult to implement this POS programme. Of course that's not true. My colleague, I believe that you are the most disappointed in eradicating this Article 18, because in the past four years, you have actually given directly the price, the cost of building apartments for real to the company of the Minister of the Ministry and, of course, to other friends. Now there'll be nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86370	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure is Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86371	Article 214 has been injured, and I ask Mr. Shirac not to insult the former minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86372	It's not a correction. It's a violation of my colleague's Rules of Procedure. And I don't know where the insult was. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86373	Thank you, Mr. President. Then let's go with the truth, shall we? But first it's a lie. A colleague claims that actually buying land for building POS apartments is a prerequisite for manipulation. And I'm going to read from the state audit findings, which was done by the ministry with contracts signed exclusively by Mrs. Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain instead of the Secretary of Staff. The agreement on direct arrangements was subsequently obtained. The information in the call for competition is different from the information in the tender documentation. It was negotiated at prices higher than planned and secured. In the case of land purchase, a higher amount was agreed than the law permits. So much for manipulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86374	Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go, Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we've heard a lot. First, I should refer to the Sesvete and how and what right the state or APN gave this property to the City of Zagreb, or did not give land, but gave project documentation to the City of Zagreb. You say we got a rich dowry. Of that rich dowry, 2,000 900 apartments were in Sesvedi where the City of Zagreb never wanted to leave that land to the state, regardless of the pre-negotiation and whatever it was that you who proposed it and signed it a few days before the elections made it that they, you were in the coalition authority in the City of Zagreb and you could drive out and ask for it to be realized. That's why we did the other thing. We've secured land in Sopnica and Deep Jark, so in the same location it means in Sesvets, in much better locations. In locations where there is already housing and where there are both schools and sports and recreation. Therefore, the land will be built by those apartments of POS that failed to be built on the former pig farm. So we tried and found a solution. Of course, it was necessary to change the city of Zagreb's general plan that was changed first. The General Plan of the Council, which has also been changed in that section. And so far, it's a detailed plan of arrangement based on which these dwellings in the Councils will work. And what surprises me most about all of this is this article 18 and selling these, in fact, contracts with others, with builders who have individual plots of complete construction. At one point, the representative lady said the municipal infrastructure should work the city, which is correct. And then after that, she said this was really good. And I'm going to tell you that Dalkoning signed with the ministry, which was, by the way, against the law of the then ministry, of course, illegally taking over all APN's affairs to the ministry, which he should not have done and what the state audit found, because it's clear that the legislator wanted it, then the legislator should have said it in the law. And I'd say, the Croatian Parliament would say that these contracts with performers, contracts with designers, land purchases are done by the ministry, not the APN. The law said that's what APN does. You took over all these jobs by agreement between the ministry and the APN and then the APN no longer had the function it had under the law. At the same time, you agreed on a complete municipal infrastructure with Dalkoning. Not with the local self-government unit. So, once we talk, we talk to each other. It is true that APN failed to implement the programme around small family houses, upgrades, upgrades and the like. It didn't work, because we were looking under the law for self-building to be gone. And people just wanted to build, and you know that based on the Law on the construction of self-building, there's no state that can't afford to pay off individuals' funds to build these apartments. And there's the only problem that's come to pass. Another problem is that the previous government, or ministry, built apartments based on lists that were less than 300 people needed lists. So 900 and something, 980 flats of need were the ones that gave units of local self-government 730. And for the best of all, that way 500 apartments, since people were not creditworthy, 500 apartments sold past the list in those units of local self-government. And therefore, I think the only way to solve it is in this way that we suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86376	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86377	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll start from the first, so where do I get to? As for the contract and the City of Zagreb. I am telling you in complete confidence, Madam Minister, that you, with all your authority which you have in this city, are responsible for controlling the work of the City of Zagreb by means of more keys, from supervision under Article 39. The Law on the municipal economy to oversee all the plans that the City of Zagreb has made, that you could, as in other situations, do so on the basis of the pre-contract, come into possession of this contract. No, Madam Minister. You could have done it. You didn't want to. And that's why I'm saying that there's a string on the route of letting go of apartments, because they're building 400 euros more expensive per square.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86378	Honorable representative Jozo Radoš, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86379	The Minister says that at these two locations in Sesvedi, Sesvetska Sopnica and Deep Jarak there is a municipal infrastructure, a school and everything else that is of course not true. The town district of Sesveta in the city of Zagreb is the town district where the highest school works in three shifts, somewhere in four shifts. Therefore, there is no such infrastructure. And in the deep ditch, it's the only secular park left in the forest, the Ministry's ambition to build apartments right there, which led to the fact that in the general urban plan of Sesveta 15 hectares of forest park intended for construction and then, at the request of the private owner, an additional 10 hectares were converted into possible construction, so that Sesvete remains without 25 hectares of forest parks only because the city of Zagreb and the state could not agree on where to build apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86380	HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86381	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Minister. It is good that this law goes to first reading so that there is time to make a better law, or to get answers to all the questions that are now currently relevant to the problem. According to the position of the HSP club, encouraging housing has proved to be meaningful and useful, but unfortunately not sufficiently, given what was expected to be announced. According to our point of view, encouraging housing should primarily play a double role. The first role is to enable the resolution of the housing issue of young generations, meaning also to be in the role of population policy and all other Croatian citizens who cannot solve their housing issues differently. Another function of encouraging construction or other role should be to be a controller, a correction of the wild price of a square meter that these construction lobbys have been doing lately. So, mainly in this second part, not at this point in time, encouraging housing has achieved its results by being a market correction and preventing this wild growth of square meter prices. You have seen for yourself that at certain locations in Zagreb, 7 thousand euros are already being concluded and that we are not talking further about various situations. Let's remind ourselves of where the apartment building came from, where that project came from. The project came from a housing management project for the victims of the Homeland War. This project was designed in '97. He was also intended to expand to all Croatian citizens. But now I'm going to tell you according to this project. So for the victims of the Homeland War, it was solved the following way. So the municipalities and cities were giving land or construction and they were carrying all the accompanying municipal equipment and the state was building. And do you know how much he stood for the state one meter square at that time? He carried from 900 to 100 marks, or converted into euro, that's 550 euros. So that was the price of a meter of square construction. And now you see, we warned it when this project started that it was already high at an initial price of 910 euros per metre square, it was high. So let's take 550 euros plus 210, so it could be at a maximum of 760 euros. According to current situations, if it were to be considered normal that these land municipalities and cities do not give but that the price has risen from 210 to 280 euros it would be the total amount according to that part if we took the price of construction in '98, '99. According to the one for the victims of the Homeland War, it would then be 830 euros. But the former government blew it up, and it initially blew up what we were always warning about. They've made more of the following. At that stage of 2000, there were 3 thousand 300 apartments for the construction of dwellings of victims of the Homeland War, stopped them, and then turned some into stimulating housing. So we're looking. The HSP Club is looking for answers to these questions. If encouraging housing should be corrective, then as inflatable has occurred, an increase in the price of a meter of square construction means from 550 euros to the current 700 euros, that is a huge difference. That's a huge difference, and in whose pockets is it going? Then we are mainly looking for an answer to the question of how the price for such ones in the city of Zagreb has increased 400 euros more. Thus, it is already evident that there have been various manipulations since the beginning of which needs to be fixed. When the minister is here, we ask that you specifically tell us what you have publicly declared by the former ministry signed contracts with the designers of works for the construction of 9000 800 apartments for which no land is to the greatest extent provided or local or building permits have been found. Construction of as many as 4 thousand 300 apartments was contracted during the last three months of 2003 before the elections, and in less than a month after the 2003 election results were announced, works worth 255 million kuna were agreed. Therefore, we are looking for these answers, meaning that it is finally clear that we are not looking at the media shooting at the HNS-Secretage and whether the competent authorities are in this part of what they are doing, if they are doing what they are doing and what they have done so far. Because I'm saying, we have to remove all the different situations that have led to the accumulation of square meters and all the various manipulations that you've talked about in terms of people being involved, 500 people and how and then those provisions have to be to prevent this part from coming to such an apartment and not meeting the conditions, meaning in terms of youth, people who have no housing problem being resolved in order to trade and achieve property benefit to the benefit of the state, to the benefit of Croatian citizens and to the harm of taxpayers. Also, when it comes to APN and all these situations, we know what kind of problems were in APN, what contracts were made. In fact, we discussed work on public procurement, and in this area of encouraging housing and everything else, there were just the most recent examples of how the Public Procurement Act was being played and so that, in conclusion, it was the Institute of Anex of the Treaty. Anexa contracts and so on, for example, individual buildings are for the victims of the Homeland War, I think it was in the Spanish area or elsewhere that the annexes even increased the prices of what was agreed on in some up to 70, 80% of the initial price. From 70 and with the deadlines extended. So in that part of it, please, I think there's official data so we can finally clear it all up, all these controversial situations. To tell the public what is true and to prevent such or similar situations and manipulations from being negotiated. Is it possible to go with these manipulations and the conclusion of an annex to the contract that is most difficult if a public competition for construction is called for and the problem is not resolved, and then not all parameters in the competition are determined? So it's in accordance with the law, and one of the biggest forms of manipulation related to the Public Procurement Act. Therefore, Madam Ministers, colleagues and colleagues of the HSP Club are looking for answers to all these questions so that we would give good momentum for this encouraging housing to ultimately achieve its double fundamental role. The first is housing care means youth and all other families who can't solve the housing issue and the second is to be a correctional reduction and, the wild rise in the price of a square meter and thus bring the construction lobby down to the level that it must be done by law at last in the state. And not to condition that it begins to rule both the city of Zagreb and other environments because they are so powerful that they then unfortunately achieve their purposes. We know how to do it. First, you buy land. After that, the urban plan is changed and they buy land at the price of a square meter, which is like a green area or something else, is not planned at all. Then the urban plan makes it possible to earn millions and millions of euros overnight, not kuna, and to burden who? Citizens, taxpayers, and everyone says it's beautiful and beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86382	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations by Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86383	Thank you very much. I would just like to correct the incorrect quote of colleagues Kovacevic, Pera Kovacevic, regarding the Elalon and the cost of the construction itself. You must know that the defense program started in 1997. Yeah, I'm not talking about him right now because he's not a subject. But the Atalon then was far below what were actually prices. The whole game of that model was staged so the companies, that the companies came to work. They paid up to 60%. They went bankrupt and made a 20% shortage of money. It was a game of thought. Instead of "exercision," it went that way. Therefore, in 2000, Elalon had to increase to EUR 700 in order to close the building at all. Oh, boy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86384	My colleagues, this is not a correction to an incorrect quote. This is comment and explanation. [[It's because it's...]] Peace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86385	Okay, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86386	Dear representative Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86387	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct the incorrect assumption that the price of squares in the city of Zagreb has increased by EUR 400. I think it's important to say that it's two completely different models of housing. Social promotional housing cannot be compared to the Zagreb housing model. So it's about two completely different models. According to Zagreb's housing model, apartments are built for sale, market sales. Then there are social housing and rental apartments. And with communal equipment, this village will already have the necessary facilities of social intentions mentioned today. So it's about two different objects and no, the housing model and you can't say, comparing these two models and saying that 400 euros has increased the price using squares. [[- Okay, okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86388	And this belongs to a commentary of one. Second, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86389	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's to correct a friend of Peru Kovacevic who, in turn, incorrectly claims that this is not explained. Well, there was an investigative committee that said everything, made everything clear. The parliament confirmed, told Mr. Bajic who lost it somewhere, but Mr. Bajic will surely bring it to an end because a colleague also claims that the entire game of the government was staged and designed. Now we've heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86390	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86391	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, I would like to correct the quote of my colleague Kovacevic that this law will be corrective or guarantee that it will be corrective in the prices of apartments on the market. And I hope to pass without criminal charges. Now everything after the change of counterpart Kovacevic will be legal, without objecting to the revision, without doubt with competitions but there will be no apartments of EUR 910 on the Croatian market but 3000.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86392	It's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86393	Dear Mr. President, so I didn't want to before because I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure was in two of the same previous cases, but since we won the Serbs, I'm glad that's why I gave up. But I have to react here. I simply said that it cannot be simpler that, according to the position of the Croatian Party Club, the right to encourage housing should be and should be in the position of a correction to prevent wild price growth. Listen, buddy, next time, listen. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86394	And the esteemed representative Bozica Šolić, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86395	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague, Kovacevic, said incorrectly when he mentioned that, and invited the Ministry to make order in the Zagreb city's apartment. I would only point out that for the apartment building in Zagreb, the capital of Zagreb and the city of Zagreb were in charge, rather Mr Bandic, who two weeks ago made the decision to raise the municipal fee by 5 times in the Zagreb city area, which means that the city of Zagreb was divided into 7 zones and is now in 4 zones. And therefore the border areas of the city of Zagreb have increased, the municipal fee has increased 5 times. And there are no sewers or water supplies in these areas, and it's his crown to boast that he's a good mayor. and even compared himself to the mayors of European countries. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] I think we should be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86396	Thank you. Thank you. The club of representatives of HSU respected representative of Stjepan Kozina. Here you go. Dear Representative Stephen Kozina, the club of representatives of HSU, please. You see, that's what I'm saying. You're right. They put it on me, and they put it in the section. Proposed defense law for people with disabilities. And then it's the club of IDS MPs, the esteemed representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86397	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Looks like Mrs. Chichin-Shain is right. Less encouraging housing says more prices and this is the logic of the appearance of this offer and demand. The state says it must indeed tear down the prices of apartments that private sellers now have where they are already selling for two, three or more thousand euros. I'm talking clearly about apartments for 2,000 people, for ordinary people. I'm not talking about the elite. If their apartments are going to cost 5.6.7 or more thousand euros, it's simply none of my business. But now, who can afford an apartment of 50 square meters for 100,000 euros or 750,000 kuna. A little someone! Let's say 700, maybe Jakocevic, maybe Sanader, maybe you, perhaps the President of the Parliament, the minister. I'm afraid not! But if we have those 750,000 kunas that have Jakovcic, I don't know you, Sanader, etc. And if we divide it by 4500 kuna how much is one average salary that is 166 average salaries for one such apartment of 50 square meters. Let's split it by 12 months. That means it takes 13.9 months to get to that apartment so you don't eat anything, you don't drink anything. If we add to that a clear interest of our business banks, then you must work 20 years for one such apartment in this country. Who can afford that? Someone who has a salary here's Jakovcic, Sanader, I'm adding the same. Oh, no? Who has a salary of 15000 kunas or someone who has two salaries in a family of seven and a half thousand kunas to get to one of those together. It is also clear to me that socialism is no more, that no more state-owned companies will literally share apartments for their workers. The state will share apartments with disabled people partly for nothing, not for nothing. The others won't make it clear. In that kind of period of 400,000 apartments there in '91, '92. It's been bought out that were built, let's say since '45. Until the '90s. We said it was a bad time and it had to be changed, and now what is this about? It's better for a few. Not for most of us, unfortunately. But these apartments also make Croatia's citizens equal with the Western countries. There's just nothing for nothing. If you want an apartment, and on the road clearly you can't live, you'll have to work your whole life and you'll have to deprive yourself of everything else. Thanks to that, it means it's from '45. By the 1990s, let's say 400,000 apartments were built in Croatia at the top of Europe, owned or owned by citizens over these housing units. And that's why 2007 would be no blasphemy, it's not calling what's been past maybe copying some modality. So, I'm talking about housing that was in force in that country, this country still until the 1990s. I say it again, counselor, it's no nostalgia for that period, but anything that worked back then might not have had to go down. Finally, every government, or leave. Finally, each government leaves behind something good, so the POS is certainly something that was good that remained from the former government and continues this government. And so, if we want to help young people, young people without an apartment, and most of them are in big cities, above all in Zagreb. Why? Because of the immigration, because of the imperceptibility of some of the eastern parts of the Republic, then it should be remembered that some of the opportunities may have been when the housing operation worked until the 1990s. Here, Mr. Luka Rajic sold Dukat for 280m euros and could build 2800 apartments of 50 square meters per 2,000 euros. If we apply the principles of POS and we speak of 1,000 euros, 1100, 1200 that's already 5600 to 6000 apartments. So many were built by the former government during its period, so many, so those 2800 apartments per 100 euros have been built by the current team in power so far. What is the point I agree with is that the prices of POS apartments are mainly in cities and up to 50% lower than those of apartments located on the free market. The calculation on this page shows the current price of the apartment. The proposed price would be 7.7% higher. Then it's about land, infrastructure accumulated means 13.22%, etc. But I'm interested in another provision. In fact, I welcome that provision and this is Article 28a. I literally quote: “The owner of the apartment that buys the basis of this law regardless of how the apartment is paid cannot alienate, i.e. a real-legal property within 10 years of the date of conclusion of the buy-in agreement.”It is further said: “The ban on alienation, i.e. the ban on real-legal availability of the property referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, will be entered in the land books at the same time as the entry of the right of ownership of the buyer, with the exception of the specific paragraph 1 of this article, can be granted before the end of the 10-year period with the agreement of the Agency, provided that the buyer pays the seller the difference between the sale price of the apartment and the real, market prices at the time of the contract.” That's it. Okay. If so, this article is unquestionable. Why am I talking about this article? To speak to the gentlemen in a discrimination that is on the part of Istria in the purchase of state-owned agricultural land. Everywhere else in Croatia, the square meter of the land goes from zero to one kuna, to a maximum of one and a half kuna. In Istria there are prices of 30, 50, 70, 80 kuna and more, and I claim that it is discrimination, injustice and that it should be changed. It's not more expensive to sell that land down there than anywhere else in this country. What's the solution? Watch out, those citizens downstairs should be treated like the others. That's where we agree. I guess we should get along. But if any agricultural land wants to sell it, then it needs to be bought for zero five, one, one and a half kuna, under the conditions of this law, under this article under paragraphs 28(a) which should be prescribed in the Law on the Sale of Agricultural State Land. So, a farmer who buys under the privileged conditions of the country if he wants to sell it first or has to offer it under the same conditions as the State will pay him the necessary, useful costs or let him pay the tax in contrast through that extra profit if he is urbanized and similar over the time he is in front of him. But also then, that extra profit, profit, taxation and large monopolies, I don't know Luri, Vindy, Konzum, TDR, etc., etc. Now that I've talked about these apartments, I might have skipped this difference, for God's sake, between Zagorec and Mr Rajic, but I won't remind myself of what I've repeatedly touched on this speaker. Although I think that we can agree if someone falls into awe then they'll have a bad time, and if you're a pillar of society, then you'll be treated like a business economic political and social entity. Of course I don't think that Zagorac is a victim, not a fag, but our tycoons like some of the ones mentioned in one transaction are 50% of the money that was used in the '90s for weapons are not innocent businessmen. That's all true, but I don't want to talk about it. And unfortunately, no one has the courage to bite. Who's the pit, I'd say, Royce, the pit. Gentlemen, this law is not a bad law. Unfortunately, practice is bad. And that's the point, and that's the practice that depends on people. Some people can't reach anything. So, for the end of the day, gentlemen, let's go and apply the anology of Article 28. And in the Law on Agricultural State Land. And I'd dare say one more thing. In this country, everyone gets something. Let him. In addition to one category, they are craftsmen who are in the city’s or state’s business spaces. I dare say they may be the greatest victims of the moment. Among other things, they match all the property. The tycoons came to factories, hotels, farmers coming to the country, where, in which regions of the Republic, small businessmen come to stimulating loans, tenants come to state apartments or come, generals come to money from guns, politicians to status, some who have committed and done what they did to amnesty not to say amnesia. But the craftsmen can't possibly get to that social space, and I guess the same thing has to be talked about. This law is clearly just the law. Unfortunately the practice is I'd say bad and that's the point. And finally, honored gentlemen, indeed what happened yesterday at the Council of Croatian Radio Television Bljajic: "Do not vote for a Serb," it is something that may be the most embarrassing scandal that has happened in one institution in the last seven years. It's not enough to change, I'd say that Bljajic because of racism. The Law on the Council of Croatian Radio Television should be amended, the Council of Croatian Radio Television disbanded...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86398	Let's go, Comrade Cain, please. My friend Caine, don't!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86399	...because this heavy group that should not be blamed but out of pity...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86400	My friend Caine, get it over with!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86401	...is not a state to do anything useful...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86402	Well, you can't talk about something that doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86403	...not for TV or for... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86404	And it has nothing to do with that. Well, don't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86405	It matters because it offends common sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86406	It's all right, it's you. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're going to correct incorrect allegations. ... Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86407	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Cain incorrectly claimed that Croatian citizens bought apartments for nothing in the early 1990s. It wasn't they who bought on privileged terms. But that's how they became richer citizens. Because the richer the citizens, the richer the state of Cain. And that was spent by the HDZ government of course. And as for the model you're talking about, a colleague certainly won't be applying your model from Koelga Jakovčić, who, under very favourable conditions, bought an apartment in Poreč and for which he received the opinion of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86408	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86409	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86410	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86411	Since I hope the members of the Council are not on the POS list, then we can go back to this topic. So, like this, I'm first correcting the incorrect assumption that the former government has made the same apartments as the current government. A fellow Caine who otherwise loves to show us everything he reads in the paper, here's me from only one leaf that covers his area to say. Veli, so far, around 3,000 100 families have been closed through the POS model, including about 900 during the coalition and the rest for the HDZ Government. The second leaf, in the term of office of this government...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86412	What's incorrect? What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86413	He said the same apartments were built by the former and current government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86414	And then say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86415	The other one, I'm sorry. Second quote. In the mandate of this Government of POS was built, a useful permit was issued for 2 thousand 963 apartments, etc., 705 apartments in construction during the 900th apartment. The second correction, it is not true that today no one can afford apartments even at these high prices because all apartments are sold in advance. The building wasn't finished, and here we have over a thousand apartments last year, all sold. That one, who can buy an apartment? I can buy young experts, deficiting professional workers whose salary is greater than 15 thousand kuna. And we're only talking about average pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86416	Thank you very much. Marko Širac, correction of the incorrect quote. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86417	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague, Agent Cain, has made very many incorrect claims, and I will only have one. He says we should've kept part of the model of building the flats from the former state. Well, that's not true, Mr. Caine. It seems that you forgot that the apartments were then built, assigned only a certain category of people, and some could never get apartments from that construction model.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86418	Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic, correction of the incorrect allegations. Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86419	Mr. President, dear colleagues. I am correcting the assumption that it would be discrimination if it were not to accept the provision by which it would be paid if users or customers of POS apartments bought apartments and tried not to resell the difference in price to the local community or state. I personally think discrimination is the other way around. Just as we now propose for a simple reason in these 17 years in Croatia, a large number of assets acquired under very favourable conditions from former apartments with tenant rights to shares for which no such provision existed if resold that the difference must be paid to the state or to the unit of local self-government. And the third thing I'm saying. This is about the inability of speculative affairs. Therefore, it should not be prescribed that it must be returned to the State, but if the difference in such a price has to be particularly taxed and should be regulated in a different way, and not in this way because this provision in its own way is non-discriminatory but unfair and restricts the right of ownership by acquisition.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86420	Dear Representative Drazen Bošnjaković, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86421	Mr. President, a colleague of Kajin has indeed provided incorrect information on how many POS apartments were built in the term of earlier the government, as much as in this one, but counterpart Markovanovic has provided accurate data, so I am giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86422	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86423	Dear Mr. President, an esteemed minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. The proposed proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Socially Encouraged Stanobuilding represents a step backwards in relation to the practice so far. First, in addition to already reducing state incentives and reducing tax relief, the price of land from 70 to 140 euros proposed, as well as the price of municipal infrastructure, is increasing. This will result in an increase in the price of the apartment and clearly an increasingly poor ability to buy apartments. In a country where we have an increasing number of poor people, POS’s model would often be the only way for young families, with their own financial strain, to solve their own housing issue. These amendments and additions to the law reduce their ability, i.e. their dwellings become more expensive and thus unreachable. Secondly, construction as an engine that drives the entire economy, this proposal throws plungers at the feet. It reduces their competitiveness on the market and thus directly affects the price of real estate. Third, the provisions of Article 5 of this proposed law affect the constitutional rights of units of local self-government and impose on them the obligation to give up their municipal contribution. The communal contribution is the original income of local self-government units and imposing such an obligation is not constitutional. Fourth, the question of the right of ownership is then raised as defined in the proposed Article 28a. which prohibits the sale of apartments 10 years after the conclusion of the contract. It is a very questionable provision that can be granted an apartment before, with the agreement of the Agency, provided that the buyer pays the seller the difference between the sale price and the actual market price at the time of the conclusion of the contract. In the first reading of the SDP club will be restrained, and we expect that by the second reading, the government will resolve these issues that we point to, and depending on that, the SDP club will also vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86424	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Drazen Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86425	counterpart Antesic said this law reduces the competitiveness of these apartments on the market because they are becoming more expensive. It is doubtless that they are becoming more expensive, but despite this accumulation, their competitiveness on the market is not diminished, because these other apartments that are built outside the POS are still significantly more expensive than these POS apartments. Unfortunately, the fact cannot be prevented and it cannot be disputed that the land price has increased and POS must also follow in a particular section. The average price from 910 euros per square goes to 980 does not reduce competitiveness, but these apartments are competitive and further on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86426	Minister Marina Matulović Dropoulos, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86427	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm surprised by this finding that it's a step back and that's because it would definitely be a step back if we didn't go into it, so some price hike because then we couldn't build anymore. Because local self-government units just don't have any more land. We said and clearly wrote that, you said now that you would increase the price and utility and means building municipal infrastructure and land which is not true. We said the total value is 280 now, and it was 210. So it only increases on land, and the municipal infrastructure remains the same. But there's always that "but" here. Every unit of local self-government whose area is built can build something for badava to create a municipal infrastructure, it can give land for badava, which means that automatically if it cares about its citizens and if it can handle it, it is building only 700 euros per square and no more. So it all depends on the local self-government unit as it did today. And as for the municipal contribution and in the past law, it was clearly written that it was the construction of municipal infrastructure. Therefore, if the local self-government unit cares about their citizens getting cheaper apartments, it will not determine such a price of municipal contribution. And as for these ten years of inability to sell it. We said there were contracts like that. But what is particularly surprising to us are the proposals that say they could sell apartments at market price and then still get priority on the new list. It's just unimaginable. What is this relationship with citizens who have not even managed to get a list of apartments, let alone those who have won twice and have earned market value as it is said today in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86428	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86429	Dear Minister, I think you've got it all wrong. It's about two or three categories of people. One is the one who sells apartments to get profits...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86430	My colleagues, please don't talk about misunderstanding and commenting. That's not an incorrect quote. The Minister gave her sightings that...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86431	It's an incorrect quote from the Minister's office when she said it was unacceptable that those who said that those who sell apartments to create profits were also, that she heard a comment that these same people would have to get priority on the lists. It's an incorrect quote and I'm trying to correct it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86432	That's what you're correcting your proposal and you're saying that your proposal is that it's not the correct proposal for a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86433	Well, I'll discuss it later if it's... I'll let myself discuss it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86434	Oh, yeah. The club of representatives of the HSS, the respected representative of Ante Markov and Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86435	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the experience of socially stimulating housing since the very beginning of law enforcement in 2001 has, to date, different experiences and different facts. . /. Experience has contributed to those who have been able to exercise their right, that it was a life step for them, that they have achieved the right that is often high in every life, in the life of every family. To find your home, home for your family is certainly one of the higher goals that almost every family assumed for itself, of course if it is still in harmony with the possibilities, or with the inability to come to such an apartment through the classical forms of buying or building an apartment, then it is, of course, one element that has within it and contains what we call the social component and socially sensitive behaviour of public authorities. Of course when I was talking about various experiences, then of course there are various experiences that are different from the local self-government unit to the local self-government unit. Of course, this stems from the fact that it is possible for local self-government units to behave differently when it comes to spaces, property they have or when it comes to buying land and when units of local self-government for various reasons seek or do so that their citizens can also enjoy various benefits. We hold that it is good that units of local self-government can in some way compete in whether they will give better or worse dispositions that will ultimately result clearly at the level of apartment prices per square metre. It is understandable to us that there has been some way of increasing costs when it comes to housing, that they have changed, that they have been able to change the cost criteria and that it is only agreeing to the prices and opening up space to local units to influence themselves that it does not have to be an increase, that it does not have to be an increase, that one of the institutes can create a greater role as units of local self-government. Of course, one universal question arises when it comes to housing. All Europe's countries have different solutions to housing systems, incentives. There is almost no such model anywhere in any country, neither the European Union nor the so-called European Union. New Europe, all of them have decided differently how to help their own citizens have a roof over their heads. Of course, funding through banks is most representative, almost 43% everywhere. Incentive housing itself is more like a model applied and is applied in so-called ‘the model’. to a new Europe which has different models solely for the reason that living standards, of course, since costs are a reality that is almost equal in both the new and the old Europe, then, of course, these, and the support and encouragement of those citizens who in nature cannot create enough value through their work to buy or to be able to monitor the classical financing of their own apartments. What I'd like to mention, and yet it's universal, is that there's been a little disproportion, an inequality between rural areas and urban areas. We are creating an elite of the urban part of Croatia. We have incentive, we have positive conditions, while we cannot say the same about almost 90% of Croatia that is rural. 90% of Croatia is rural. And then one question arises by not wanting to criticise the slightest right for our citizens in all cities and wherever possible to have favourable apartments. Absolutely I am and the HSS club is for because we are real people, but we need to think about what's with those 90% of Croatian spaces that have the name rural spaces. How to get them tied up. I know that self-building is hard to appreciate, that it has its shortcomings within the legal system. However, these are the spaces that. You know, in the country, people sometimes meet one criteria for housing, while that very rule doesn't apply in the city, you know, and then we create certain inequalities, and the wrong messages may be that it's better that the small population in the country retires to big cities and centers, which, of course, there can be no message and there can be no sense of anything. Therefore, we do not object to this normative level of regulation of a way of encouraging housing in accordance with the needs, and to leave local units with the possibility to regulate them and create those conditions that they can create, but it would be worth considering after the reduction of that incentive on housing savings from 25% to 15% to introduce a universal criterion on how to even rural areas, not to create the impression that it is some humane migration of our citizens from the village to the cities. So, I want to appeal to this part and we have no objection to further developing modality and ways to function socio-encourage housing, of course in accordance with the law, in accordance with the principle of justice and in accordance with the needs of a society that must have a balance when it comes to the village-city relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86436	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86437	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Certainly, it would be good to try to talk about the problem of socio-encouraged housing with several aspects, but still introspectively to see a few sentences that are important, and which were often discussed during this morning and on as a topic very current. Certainly when it started with the socio-encouragement housing public expectations were at the time great, interest of course even greater. First of all, young people, young couples, and certainly part of the socially endangered category of the population have shown interest. The expectations primarily referred to the hope that the price of these apartments would be cheaper than those on the market. Today, but before, there is certainly praise for such a model. Of course there are criticisms. We also had the opportunity to read about it in the printed media that were related to I don't know, the quality of it, for example. But no matter what, a positive result has been achieved. The interest exists, and we can determine that the model is good. But we at the HSS Club what my colleague Markov used to say earlier, we also want to light up a model of socially stimulating construction on the other hand. And ask us all a very clear question. Is this really part of the overall population policy? Based on our available information, the vast majority of residential POS buildings were built in cities. And the inhabitants of these new apartments are not only citizens of these cities but also young people from rural areas, which is nothing unusual after all. But these young people, based on their statements, would remain in their native villages, but their overall living conditions are becoming increasingly difficult and believe that they are better living in the city. The result of all this is that for ten years today, if we look at the research that has been done, we now have almost 200 villages without residents in just ten years. We have 2,000 and 400 villages where less than 200 people live. We can talk about the process of dying of the village. We are not satisfied with the excuse that self-building is not financed through this model of socially stimulating housing. I think it's time to start thinking about new models or building up such a model. Modeling how to keep these people, young people stay living in villages. Aren't these data for all of us worrying? We're more concerned about whether there's been a failure or not to pass a model, and we're less concerned about where we're left with people living. So it's good that this goes all together in the second reading, and we believe that we will all realize together that socially stimulating housing must also be part of population policy. And we'd love to do another reading, so there's no confusion, we get data on how many apartments have been built so far by a model of socially stimulating housing, where are the locations built? We can even have some kind of structure of who these new residents are, the age structure, maybe the location of the dwellings before they move in? Let's see how many of these young people from the village came to live in cities. So in the end, if there's so much talk here about building prices, let's see what the starting price was, what was the final price? To take down taboo topics that are often present in this House and often know how to mix up with viewers, but also with the public. So we at the HSS Club certainly think that the positive results are achieved by this model. But we would like that model to finally make its turn towards population policy and allow young people from the village to stay there. In what way? It doesn't have to be exactly this model. Maybe someone else. But it would certainly be good to hear something about it, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86438	The club of HSLS MPs, respected House Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86439	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Clearly, the place to live is not a luxury, that it goes into basic existential need. However, the fact is that both sales and rentals still make the most money... and speculators, that prices in Zagreb and other major and more attractive cities such as Dubrovnik can be measured with Vienna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is certain that this fact excludes a good part of the population, especially young families. And without a settled apartment, it can be very difficult or without a housing solution model, you can talk about the demographic restoration that we like to talk about. However, in demographic renewal he mentioned this earlier, a colleague must not forget less places or smaller cities and also revitalisation of the village as one of the programmes that can be included in these projects. The fact is that we don't have a regulated housing market, that intervention is necessary and that so far we've had models that have tried to solve the problem. However, they were flawed. It doesn't mean that because of the lack of a model, models need to be interrupted. They should be continued but deficient. So let's remember the lack of control, when we drop out in the least case of tiles before they move in with companies with recognizable names and owners by the famous Croatian model which, I deeply hope, is repairable. The results of various studies show that our country faces growing housing problems especially in large cities. The problems of housing are structural, have become a limiting factor in development, housing problems are evident in a low standard of housing, overcrowding of living space, housing shortages, rising high prices, high rents, especially on the black sub-unity market. So there is information that there are 45 thousand apartments missing in Zagreb alone, and more than 2 average salaries should be allocated for a square meter of apartment. A growing number of smaller households cannot afford decent housing. I looked at the data from 2002 or 2003, where there's information that 150 thousand permanent dwellings don't have toilets. 5 thousand, no kitchen, no bathroom, which is significantly below the quality of dwellings in most European Union countries. And it is obvious that Croatia must have, must develop a strategy of housing policy. This is one of the few areas in which no government has tried to develop such a strategy so far, since the home of the basic human need, at the same time the greatest material value, is crucial for social integration and prosperity of modern society, so some European countries have equated the right to an apartment with the right to education. Those are the ones to think about. And I'd like to say something concrete about two articles that I believe should be changed. In Article 2(3) and (4) of this proposal, it is prescribed that if units of local self-government provide construction land or settle the costs relating to insurance of municipal infrastructure and connections, the agency shall be obliged to pay the unit of local self-government 35% of the cost of building land for each purchase of the apartment, business space, garage or garage. This is certainly good because our local self-government will be able to at least recover some of the funds and be able to use it for new investments. However, Article 8 of this proposal provides that the owner of the apartment bought by POS cannot sell that apartment within ten years until the conclusion of a contract or from the conclusion of a purchase contract except in cases of agreement with the agency or obligation to pay the difference between the sales price and the actual market price. Clearly, we need to protect ourselves from selling apartments. However, it seems to me that this deadline for today is a little too long, that it is ten years long, and that it should be considered cutting that deadline to five years. It may not be appropriate to bind to ten years of people with one place of residence because we have changes in employment and different circumstances. In addition, the tax law provides that the sale of the apartment over a period of five years is limited when buying the first real estate for housing and tax exemption. What I am really holding apart from these amendments of the law should certainly be accepted but a housing policy strategy should be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86440	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86441	Mr. President, Madam Minister. Today we started talking about the price of apartments. Prices of apartments in Zagreb, the average price is already 2 thousand 100 euros per opportunity, a couple of euros less plus a minus. So the prices are really going up. Also, the demand for apartments is extremely high, and that's true. And the POS itself certainly can contribute but clearly by building where it should be built because it has been shown that the former government has left unsold apartments, that actually politicians have sought to build the building right in their place, in their municipality, and later it has proved that it was actually unnecessary. We're talking about land prices here. Here, counterpart Antesic mentioned that it is really against the people this increase in land prices. I ask him where he'll find the price of land on Rab. I think the price is even higher because here we have it in the village next to Zagreb or the town of St. Sunday the price is already up to 200 euros in slightly more attractive areas. So, prices are going up terribly, and it's certain that this price can't be made any more POS, it would actually be blocked. We're still talking about communal contributions. So as far as I know, how much I followed that POS back there that mayors and commissioners were the ones who forced the construction of POS clearly wanting to solve all the problems of taking care of young people in their cities and municipalities. If they want to attract young people, and if they want young people to stay because we remember that by changing taxes that the biggest income of cities and municipalities is from their own income, so the goal is to keep quality young experts who have far higher salaries than the average, then that price should be appropriate and it will be appropriate if we lower that price and we can lower it so that normal cities and municipalities give up municipal contributions because municipal contributions are one huge item in some cities. Finally, let's remember the current one, here's colleague Šolić mentioned, a multiple increase in municipal contributions that will normally further increase the huge prices of apartments anyway. Here, it's certainly a good thing it's here, and then there's a round of payouts, but the banks are very competitive, too. That's why this conukture is because they give at a relatively low interest rate and at 30 years of renting apartments and normally where two employees are that they will be very happy to solve the housing issue in this way because it's actually less important than paying off the sub-citizenship. It's a good thing there's no manipulation and there's no selling apartments, and that's why it's gonna take ten years to limit the right to sell because if you've gone through a little bit, I've had a chance to see it in one of our lists. I'm not going to advertise the papers as some colleagues, but in one of our lists, the competitions are already for the reselling of POS apartments and the uninhabited POS apartments, clearly by market apartments, which should certainly be prevented. We've seen that over the past three years and we've heard, and we've read, finally journalists are very fierce critics if it's not true, and this has confirmed that in the past three years some 3,000 apartments have been made and that the former government has made about 900 apartments and large numbers that have been reported in the pre-election campaign in 2003. In fact, then contracts are signed in every way possible. If we look at the Spanish Treaty signed with performers among which the elite place had former Minister Radiir Cacic's companies without having been secured anything, no projects, so an idea project or infrastructure projects, and I talked to the contractors or were building permits, they were issued there about five, six months later, so neither the costs nor the allocations, the works were awarded without competition. And now we praise and weep for those times when big jobs could be awarded without competitions. The competition definitely lowers the price, and when we talk about the Public Procurement Act, then we swear to it, and when it comes to the former POS, it was still the ultimate discovery. If we're talking about Sesvets sold-out jobs and that land was owned by someone else. So it's funny, too. I believe that the ministry will have long and long trial and lawsuits from those performers who signed neatly at the invitation of the former ministry contracts without getting a job. They didn't get a job because they clearly couldn't get a job, and there were no projects there but an idea project. Then let's remember further what happened to that former POS. Interestingly, I had the opportunity to watch a lot of contracts that the former resolute minister did not sign any contracts but was always someone in exchange for him, most often a great colleague of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain, who had signed it neatly and finally led it. If we're looking at POS's apartments that were built before, then for the former government, a great example, let's say, Cres. So, a little place that may not have had a lot of needs, but because of the rush, it was assigned a job to Konning clearly without a competition. So that job started somewhere nine, ten million kunas of what it was and at one point something was going on. You have an annex contract where the company Koning becomes the owner of that building of 29 garages and three business spaces. And now you can think, if the price of squares is reduced thanks to local self-government, thanks to the ministry that went to the lowest possible, the lowest possible variant per square says so. It means that these, these garages and business spaces have been assigned to invaluableness, and I don't really understand Mr. Bajic's waiting. I suppose the former minister also went into an early campaign just to say that the influence, that if Mr. Bajic goes along with it, then it's clear because of politics, because of this, that and so on. I hope we'll be waiting soon to actually propose to the Parliament, to put the proposal in order. Because a lot of other things happen within a few days. Then we have an example and I won't, Raba, here's finally a colleague is where the catastrophic situation is out there. The building's falling apart before it was moved in. There was a leak on Cres, she was late in Spain, and they were late for work. They also lead as in the story. The people who moved in have already rebelled. So there were a whole series of gaps because I say indiscriminately, all these jobs were indiscriminately shared. Then I have to repeat what the review said about 2003. Consents for direct arrangements shall be obtained subsequently. The competition went with the data from the idea project. The information in the call for competition is different from the information in the tender documentation. Project documentation was drawn up before detailed urban plans were adopted. It was negotiated at prices higher than planned and secured. In the case of land purchases, a larger amount has been agreed upon than the law allows. The contract concluded with the builders has repeatedly crossed the insurance funds in the ministry's budget. And now I'm interested in what's wrong with this law that all of these, those former manipulations want to clear out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86442	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86443	Thank you very much. Since my colleague Markovanovic has mentioned, on several occasions today, the completely wrong and incorrect data published by the media I would like to correct. It's about the number of apartments. In view of the APN website of colleagues with yesterday you can see that in various stages at the APN recapitulation site you have 5,000 699 apartments in circulation. If you look at the state of the ministry on 2.12.2003, you can see there were 10 thousand 649 apartments in circulation. That's the source of your exact data.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86444	Replica, a respected representative of Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86445	Thank you very much. Here's a respected colleague, Markovanovic, I would like to rephrase to you in your presentation when you spoke about part of the municipal contribution and that exactly the municipal contribution will certainly lead to a major role in resolving young families' housing issues. It is therefore important here to point out what happened in the city of Zagreb two weeks ago? That the municipal contribution in the border areas of the city of Zagreb was increased by 5 times. This means that the building permits will be increased by so much as with regard to the municipal contribution. Dear friends of the young family will have to go to town. He will not stay on his grandfather's land and live there but will accumulate in the city because Bandic simply staged such a situation, and this has already proved to him in history that it is a failed socialist policy. So everybody to town, nobody to the country. And here I agree with Mr. Representative Sabati when he said that it was necessary to allow young families to stay as long in the country as possible without everyone going to that city. And surely today is a better quality of life in the country than in the big cities. And here I will once again say that let those people who are on the edge of the city think well, they are not, these are third-class people because the city of Zagreb has a very large area of rural areas. And just in these rural areas, the mayor of Zagreb created a situation for them to have to go and move out of it because they will not be able to bear such costs for the big city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86446	Reply to the replica, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86447	... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[/Intruder: By turning on the microphone. Turn yourself in.]] Hands on your back, sorry. This is how the city of Zagreb is also mountain Gornja and mountain Donja there somewhere towards Kasina. The city of Zagreb is also Ježdovec. The city of Zagreb has a large border area and an increase in municipal contributions contributes to illegal construction. We have an entire village on the edge of Zagreb right across the Sava where almost no house has a building permit. Any increase in municipal contributions will increase wild construction, and people are aware that the ministry's buffers can't get anywhere and then normally go to that risk. I just have to tell my colleague when we became a municipality in St. Sunday in 1993 then we reduced the four-fold, five-time community contribution price so that we actually legalized and there was mass legalization, so maybe there were several facilities and several houses left without a building permit. I don't think this is going to increase the legality of construction. So respect... High sentences will hardly be legalized and subsequently. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86448	Honorable representative Marko Širac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86449	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, counterpart Markovanovic, said in his presentation that APN was building apartments during the past government. I think he missed the emphasis that APN was doing nothing. That the contract between the Ministry of Public Works and the APN was transferred to the Ministry and that the ministry worked and built those apartments. He also noted that 906 apartments were built during the three years, but a colleague forgot to explain what happened to those apartments that...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86450	You have a replica of your colleague Markovinović. ... On him. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86451	Well, that's him. I say he forgot to mention and explain what happened to the apartments that were built for unknown customers and he was on the board that detailed it. I would like my colleague Markovanovic to explain to me in response to the replica who bought those apartments that were built from the POS programme and there were no candidates for those apartments. That's what I was thinking, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86452	Replica reply, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović:
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86453	Well, here's the question, specifically. I'd be happy if I could answer that question specifically, but it's the fact that the ministry can get that information. Because the fact is that the apartments were really bought we heard by the list. Namely, the lists are also transparent. They should have, and they were transparent. But clearly, many others jumped in because the price paid to buy an apartment and to resell the apartment very quickly at the time. In fact, go take a look at these POS buildings, most of which are as whole as long as they are, and most of them have been in the remont after a very short time. So, in that period that was built without competition and in that way, you'll see that other people live importantly than those. Look at the little train park outside those buildings, so you'll see that there are some other people in there, not those who, by POS's criteria, could buy these apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86454	Dear Representative Krunoslav Peronja. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86455	Dear Mr. President, counterpart Markovanovic said in part that it was built in this government 2963 apartment, but he forgot to add that a useful permit was issued for these apartments that were impeccably built and moved and that 750 apartments were also built, and preparations were made for the construction of 654 apartments and therefore a total of 5273 apartments were prepared. Furthermore, unlike the former ministry that had contracts with designers and contractors to build 9800 apartments, to the most extent neither the land was secured nor any permits were available.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86456	Reply to the replica, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86457	Well, I have to admit, I might be a little confused. Namely, the opposition definitely confuses me. One time they say you should trust the papers, another time you shouldn't trust the newspapers. However, I trust the ministry, and the ministry's data are really high-quality, unfortunately many who think that this should not be so, and I believe that, in fact, by amending this law, there is much hope for those who are impatiently expecting apartments that are important at a lower price than they are now. So by applying this law quickly, I don't see what needs to be changed much. I don't know any other reading. Normally, there's a lot to change. It may be possible to strengthen surveillance because the change of the HSS configuration in the Assembly has made it important that the "Capital ing" did this extraordinaryly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86458	Dear Representative Zlatko Koračević. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86459	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. Well, it's my club's point of view, and it's my personal opinion that encouraging housing, or social promotional housing, has proved to be meaningful and useful. But unfortunately not as much as we all probably expected, because in our view, or at my club's point of view, encouraging housing should have two goals, two essential functions, two important roles. The first is to enable the resolution of the housing issue, meaning the housing of the youth, and then it is automatically in the function of population policy, to all other Croatian citizens who cannot resolve the issue of their housing. And in that part it was a long way off to expect that far more would be done, because we know what the situation is, what the needs are. On the other hand, this project should also be a corrective, i.e. prevention, correction to prevent wild growth of square meter prices on the market. Because we know what the situation is, because at this point, it's far greater demand than the offer. The building of fewer apartments means more than it should and then allows all teams of various building lobbys to raise the price of square meters in the sky under the clouds. If the encouraging housing is in this function, it will be done as automatically as possible to influence this part and prevent various manipulations. Because you only take according to this calculation, meaning that this law is now passed and that the price of a meter would be 980 euros, and at this point in Zagreb, a colleague said it was an average of over 2000 euros, but that average includes apartments built 25 years ago, 30 years ago, if you take certain areas, the city center, the area of Jarun or other situations, while you do not have in certain areas of the city you see up to 7,000 euros in the daily press. Therefore, this is the part where both states and cities and municipalities can act in a function of resolving the housing issue of youth, families that have failed to resolve the housing issue and the correction of growth, the wild growth of these prices. I'm saying, this project of encouraging housing comes from a housing management project for the victims of the Homeland War. So they're the same parameters. In that project that started in '97. In the years the municipalities and cities gave land, so construction sites and communal equipment at cost, so municipal equipment went to the expense of municipalities and cities, and then according to these budgets, the cost of construction was between 900 and 100 000 marks, i.e. according to current means the calculation would amount to some 550 euros. But now we're coming up with this situation that this price has gone up to 980, it's going to rise to 980 euros. So if this variant were taken 550 if it were at that time plus 210, let's say, according to current indicators, how much is the price of a square meter, so land, construction sites with this communal equipment. That would then be 760, or according to this, if the price of a meter was a square construction site, land with equipment communal to 280. That's 830. Thus, it is evident that there has been an increase in the price of square meters of construction itself, so it needs to be seen whether this one was unreal initially, i.e. whether it was too high. And now let's take an example of the City of Zagreb, which on the basis of the team, teams are also going into this project but its price is still 400 euros up and then it seems to be all for the citizens of the City of Zagreb, we are doing, and we had at the last session of the City Assembly that it simply solves the City of Zagreb, raises municipal contributions, everything it can, all the prices rise and then says how it works in interest. So, I call on all the meanings of both the municipalities and the cities if they want to join this project, but this project must be far better supervised than it was before all the stages, all the contracts, all the contracts, so that everything we've had so far and what the minister has been saying and what colleagues have been saying to get rid of it right away at the beginning. So I'm asking everyone out to meet their citizens to settle the housing issue. This applies to municipalities and cities as colleagues spoke in smaller places. Because encouraging housing isn't just building big housing buildings, skyscrapers or anything else. For small environments, it means city, family houses and everything else that it takes to make their contribution in this part that wherever they can give land with municipal equipment, because it automatically lowers this price, so if these calculations are correct it would be up to 700 euros, up to 700 euros. And now we have the city of Zagreb, which of these 980 is still 400 euros, so that's a huge difference, that's a huge difference. So now we're asking you to show that social sensitivity everyone's talking about. This is a pre-election year. Towns and cities, come on. Come on, come on, come on, come on, Give land with communal equipment and we will create a great incentive for and these funds that are obtained and that are alluded to from what has already been made and what is sold automatically are just being multipled, and we are going to go into a situation that will be as much as possible, as much construction as possible. Automaticly when there are more constructions within this project, because that any more construction required this plus this part related to the participation of municipalities and cities automatically from year to year are higher funds. And then we come up with that other role that we expect to make this project to be also in the function of the correction, the reduction in generally wildness of the price of a square meter. So that's the part here. I don't think we should have any more party talk about it than specifically. Here's the situation and the possibilities, so we publicly invite everyone not to act as benefactors, not to act as mayors and mayors and mayors of the municipalities and everything else. You have the possibility of how and how you can help your citizens, your fellow citizens, and not organize various concerts or other. I'm sure people will trust you more then. Here, thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86460	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Jelena Pavicičić Vukičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86461	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I will, unfortunately, repeat what I once said in correcting an incorrect quote. So today we're talking about a model of socially stimulating housing. What you are saying again about the cost of costing the squares of the apartment in the city of Zagreb you are talking about the Zagreb model of housing. It's two totally different models. And they can't compare even in this debate. So, according to Zagreb's housing model, the City of Zagreb builds apartments for the market, builds social apartments that will be shared according to the established list of championships as well as past the list of championships, and builds apartments for rent. It will be a settlement fully communally equipped, a settlement with all facilities of social standard, and apart from Sesvet, it will soon begin to be built in Blato, Resnik and Podbrje. Therefore, here I would like to ask nicely that in the debate on POS no talk about the Zagreb housing model, the prices of squares cannot be compared and no one has tried to second-guess the fact that these apartments will be sold commercially.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86462	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86463	Well, Mr. President, dear colleague square is a square. That's what I was talking about. And if we're going to be well-intentioned, if we're going to work on behalf of our fellow citizens, then why don't you stand at 700 euros square feet on this model if the city cares as much as you say. So we have a variant of simple, the city gives land, that means construction, municipal equipment, and there's no situation. 700 euros is that, and it's not a thousand or whatever it's worth, 80. That's what I'm talking about. So there's a drastic difference. Let's set an example. Let's give a boost. Why don't you like me at City Hall ask the mayor? Let's show concrete examples. You can't defend something that's indefensible. It is that it is cheaper than these 2 thousand and something on average, or 3 thousand, as far as the square meter is now in certain areas of the city of Zagreb. But don't play mecens when it can be even cheaper. Well, then be open to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86464	Thank you. Dear representative Bozica Šolić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86465	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Kovacevic. I don't understand why the city costs 400 euros more. Why? I'd like to say that to the public why the city is more expensive than 400 euros? That is why I am a resident of the city of Zagreb, an old town of Zagreb, which is why my roots are a thousand years here. I want to know precisely because in the district of Bezovica is a connection to the water supply of 11,000 kuna, and now the City of Zagreb is increasing the squares of apartments again. For what? I want an answer from the relevant ones, I want an answer from the Mayor of the City of Zagreb to tell who it belongs to and who it will be given to, the 400 euros that is increasing. Second thing, second thing, fellows, just a little bit. My ancestors have been in these areas for a thousand years. The second thing, the social housing institute is to keep an eye on the data and I have relevant data that the social housing institute that is shared in the city of Zagreb so that no one gets it from those people, from those families who are really in social status, who can't provide housing and solve housing issues, but is divided by a model if you get a member of the SDP you'll get a social apartment in the city of Zagreb. That's true. And during Yugoslavia, the same model, if you're a member of the Communist Party, you'll get an apartment. Božica Šolić didn't even get it during that country, and I keep giving it during my country. And that's true. And don't sell fog.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86466	Peace. Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86467	Well, that's right. And I asked this question. So far, I have not received an answer, or even one too many answers, to this question. So the thing is simple. If municipalities and cities secure land means a construction site with municipal equipment, then construction prices at this point are 700 euros square meters. And somebody explain to me whether it's for this part or for the social part, but how it can grow from 700 to 980, or another 400 euros more. And then who's taking the car? Certainly not people who want to solve the housing issue. Who does that extra money go to? Because obviously there's too much money in there. Therefore, it is manipulation and we are struggling to cut these manipulations down to make this encouraging housing, it is a model of Zagreb, large-scale, Zadarian, to be in the function of housing and price reduction both in this and generally priced. And you can do that. Truth in the sun, let's tell people how it can be cheaper. Well, then we all get together here and make it real and let's not get smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86468	Third replica, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86469	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a well-respected colleague, Kovacevic, in his presentation, simply after it turned out that the towns and municipalities should actually give up municipal contributions, and since they do not deny themselves that in the end the only interest in building POS apartments is the interest of the ministry, but I argue that many cities and municipalities will be very happy to give up municipal contributions to solve their problems and therefore, as he does, I am surprised at the view of the SDP club that this municipal contribution should not be denied, so here at the Committee on Local Self-Government and President Koprivnica, the mayor of Koprivnica also argues that the municipal contributions should not be denied. So, my colleague Kovacevic, I support you here, in that part of you, I definitely support that cities and municipalities need to give up the municipal contribution in order to cost construction and finally enable all those who have real housing problems... The apartment. [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86470	Replica response, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86471	Well, Mr. President, dear colleague. Well, that's right. Let's look at the Constitution, let's look at the legal function of municipalities and cities, what is the function of chieftains in municipalities and cities? So take care of your fellow citizens. So if they're going to take care of their fellow citizens, here's a simple model of how to enable housing of youth, how to help population policy. So, don't act like we all want to, we all want to, and then we have to collect the communal contributions. It doesn't work, that story doesn't hold water. So let's be specific, let's publicly tell all the municipalities and cities to give construction sites, land with municipal equipment, and we'll lower the drastic price of a square meter, there'll be 700 euros, maybe 800, and we'll make that double function that we're fighting for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86472	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86473	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I think it is unnecessarily polemized when it comes to socio-encouraged housing on the content of this encouraging housing. I think we will all agree that these five years of the application of the Law on Social and Encouragement Building was a purpose when it comes to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that it has produced results. Does it also have to be to what extent, is it as much as proposed to level the cost categories? That doesn't have to be a metric for me to discuss. Why? I think that each country's task is to create one framework, one framework in which it will enable certain categories of our citizens who are not regular, common, universal roads to buy an apartment, to install their own house, to help them with this society. Of course, the abuses that would jump into this space that society and this law have reserved for specific structures and categories of people is something that is unacceptable. When I say that the task of the state is to organise space so that such social and social activities can happen, then I think that on the other hand, if it is the task of the state to create a legal framework, and it has created a legal framework, then we must go to another part of the task because we all like to talk about that Croatia should be decentralised, balanced, simply to respect the different criteria that arise from the different areas where Croatian citizens live. Therefore, it is quite understandable that the further direction of the movement of positioning of this Law should go from these general assumptions created by the state create specific legal environments in local self-government units in individual areas which should otherwise evaluate the needs of their citizens. The needs of citizens are not the same in Zagreb, Osijek, Dalmatia and islands. Therefore, local self-government should expand the law a little. He's got one collective direction, I think he needs to be opened up individually. How individual? I think we should find the Minister's ability to make positive incentive measures related to the construction of social, i.e. dwellings that have the character of buildings in rural areas possible for the financial promotion of a particular family, for individual young families to use this benefit that the state has foreseen in this Bill proposal in a way that is accessible to their need to live in the area where they live and that this benefit granted by the state in accordance with the universal lending system is used to build their own home. So just to expand the good positions of this bill, not to disrupt what is said to be self-building will make it clear that you don't have an account. There's got to be an account. So I'm not talking about going consciously to break the laws, but simply to take positive measures, and the positive measures are evident in this law, and it wouldn't be right now that the purpose of this debate is to get out of a good position those crumbs that aren't working. Of course there are problems in them, of course there are anomalies, of course there's fraud, of course there's illegal behavior, but it's an integral part of every social and economic activity, problems. Therefore, I am in favour of opening this space from this general to the individual, i.e. according to certain areas in our country that simply do not have the opportunity to fit into this system of housing, but can, through individual family building, use the same instruments, the same means not changing the character of using it to build family houses, to build objects that can be located in rural areas, local self-government and how to regulate the heights of municipal compensation or the role of local self-government setting it in an active role towards its citizens. I think that every local self-government, that's what I was saying yesterday, doesn't need to prescribe norms and can't prescribe norms because it's simply being called that it's decentralised, but citizens and local self-government believe each one, they're very sensitive and they know very well what their government does and does for them. How it behaves when it comes to young families, when it comes to categories of people who do not have enough money, and it means a lot to them the fact that local self-government frees them from municipal compensation, to help them edit what we call general and public infrastructure. That's what almost 20% of the price is today if we calculate it all together. So that part of social sensitivity is on local self-government units, and I'm not for it to be prescribed by some illegal or binding law. It wouldn't do any good. It wouldn't work for the reasons of principle, and of course it wouldn't work because it might get the impression that these people who work and operate in local self-government units simply can't understand it. Of course they understand that well, but I think the message should be that these criteria and these advantages given by this bill, and it clearly ensures a cheaper price for the apartment. We are also asking to ensure a cheaper price for the construction of housing houses, a cheaper price for construction in those areas that cannot be fully subject to such a regime to reach the benefits that the state provides, and on the same level that we must invite local self-government to behave in accordance with the basic task it has, which is to be at the service of its citizens who are in that local self-government unit whether it is cities and municipalities. I think that in this way we will also guess the meaning of every law that wants to have a balance between the central state and decentralisation as something that I will not show as a European experience but as a natural position that Croatia today has. Croatia today is a country where regional differences do not conflict but complement, but which needs to be preserved and should be valued exactly at that level as they treat themselves. Therefore, we must not allow any conflict to come, but the misunderstanding between urban and rural Croatia, because there is no need for it, and we must not allow any of our appeals or any of our views to be interpreted as an appeal against one of these two branches, so to speak or two structures of urban and rural Croatia. I said rural Croatia accounts for 90% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This simply cannot be ignored and no law may allow there to be an inequality between the two categories. Therefore, I think that, Madam Minister, when amending this law or certain sublegal acts, we can create an opportunity to simply move on to this structure that I was talking about without having an imbalance what you said cannot be done without an account. Of course you can't. Let's try to make that young families in the country can use benefits, get to their own house by credit lines. Thank God today is a financial situation in Croatia when loans are quite solid especially in that mortgage part. If the state gives its assistance there, it will be possible for young families to build a house with 1% interest, perhaps without interest, perhaps in certain areas such as the specific areas that are rightly called special areas that have been devastated by war where there is simply no power or financial possibility to build, so it should be given to have unambiguous resources. And should be given to have unambiguous resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86474	That's it. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86475	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of Markov said that it is unnecessary to pollemise in this context of POS. I believe it is necessary in Parliament to conduct a controversy on this framework for two reasons. Simply first, because this framework determines or gives the conditions on which the apartments will be built and at what price, so whether 50 or 500 per year, is 900 or 1400 euros per square year. And secondly, this framework gives neither direction collectively nor individually as the colleague says, but this framework of the law gives direction to the building lobby, not to the individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86476	Replica, the esteemed representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86477	Dear Mr. Representative Markov, I absolutely support your thoughts on addressing housing needs, building citizens' houses throughout Croatia, but you forgot that this government and this Croatian Parliament brought additions to this law in 2004 and that it allowed the construction of houses of families throughout the houses. Reconstructions, upgrades and all that goes along with these favourable conditions. But we need to be clear, you can't give it to the one who's building a 400 square-square house. It must fit these social criteria prescribed by this law. Therefore, this is not an incentive for everyone, this is only for those citizens, and I agree that they are citizens throughout Croatia not only in Zagreb, because the need of 5 thousand apartments in Zagreb is the question whether it is real or not. It is not our goal in this country to concentrate everything in Zagreb and in some other cities, of course let it be throughout Croatia but it is already settled by these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86478	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86479	I wasn't talking about this or that government. I was talking about citizens' feelings that just at this point housing housing is being consumed in cities, in urban areas, and that part of the benefit is not adequately transmitted to the possibility of private family construction of our citizens in the same way that it is used here. And I didn't pollemize whether there were any other measures. I've polarized only with the fact that we allow our citizens in areas of special state care, in islands, in those rural environments that we know are clearly lagging behind by the number of residents and by the income of the population, to give them clear benefits around which it doesn't take ten years to drag around various institutions to achieve their right rather than to be clear, to be precise and to be realized within some time when people today expect something to be realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86480	Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86481	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Markov, I believe he will agree with me, and this replica is heading towards a maximum attempt to do something that is now evident in Croatia. Whether or not they wanted to admit, our cities are already overcrowded today. We have an extremely big problem. Let us only remember the problems in the City of Zagreb, and I believe that every day many of you meet them. And now it's just a question of the direction that the esteemed colleague Shirac was talking about, that we have opportunities related to the stimulating house of construction. Now, it's a political decision for you, is that what we're going to focus on? Our proposal is very specific, so we're going with concrete things to focus on our rural areas, towards our villages. The obvious fact is the villages are empty, the houses are empty and I believe it's a space that needs to be given some incentive in the future. The encouraging houses of construction, if we're going to call it that, must be given both politically and in this House of Commons, a strong boost in that direction. And if that's what they're going to think, if it's going to be incorporated into a legal proposal, I believe that in the future we're going to have one even development throughout Croatia, and not that, unfortunately, we're only concentrating in a few cities, and unfortunately we have places that are released. And I believe that you all believe it is not good for the overall politics in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86482	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86483	Thank you very much. I would say in response to the replica that there is a great example of how serious countries are, so countries that have experienced and what large cities mean and how the state should behave when it comes to decentralisation like France, deal with these and these topics. As early as ten years ago, the French government made a decision on detimulating the construction of apartments in Paris. It's Paris. And measures to encourage French provinces have created exactly the conditions to promote family life in the provinces, as they are called provinces, perhaps not in our sense, but in the regions. And that is exactly the kind of approach that created not only the return of residents to those areas, but also the creation of a proactive economic policy. The measures in which decentralisation was brought about in the correct form were encouraged. So today is really an opportunity when we talk about this to look at a broader aspect and to overturn this good idea and spread it all over Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86484	Dear Representative Pejo Trčević, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86485	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Markov, in most cases I agree with your exposure. However, some things are still unclear to me, so you'll probably respond to my replica and answer, what do you think is a universal solution to the problem of housing? And you mentioned the usual solution to the housing problem, so there's probably some sort of unorthodox. And I'll tell you that it's not a problem either in the POS Law or in the construction of those apartments, but simply the negativity of all of it is the forced construction of those apartments. And I'll give you an example. At the time when our colleague Kosisa Chichin-Shain was an assistant minister, I acted as mayor in Petrinja. The city of Petrinja also offered a location and a municipal infrastructure. And it simply did not pass the encouraging housing for the reason that only two young families appeared in the competition or invitation competition. And then there was pressure from the ministry that we didn't do something right. I answered her on two requests from Mrs. Chichin-Shain, so the female head probably doesn't need or is expensive. So, the problem is in the exorcised encouraging apartment which is evidence and the town of Sisak, when three residential buildings were built at the end of the term, at the end of the term, and until today they are not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86486	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86487	Thank you very much. I'll try to answer what I thought was a universal solution. The universal solution is when the state adopts regulations and measures that are universal. When he says that every citizen who meets the criteria can't have or through regular elections of funding will buy an apartment or build his own house, will help him in equal ways. That he will bring the regulations in which he says, out of a hundred kunas, the state subsidizes you 15 kunas, and you manage in those 15 kunas. And that is true for all and for those in the city, and for those in the country, and for those in their dwellings, and for those in their houses, and for those in the islands, and for those in the pastures. It's called the universal and fair way of redistributing those goods that the state wants to share with its citizens. As for the usual and unusual way. That's what we all talked about. It cannot be common and normal, that different structures buy what is not intended for them and then sell it at three times the price. It's not called encouraging housing, it's called encouraging crime. [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86488	Next replica, respected representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86489	Thank you very much. Mr. Markov, I would like to rephrase your speech regarding the appropriate Article 5 of this proposed law. Therefore, the obligation imposed on local self-government units to give up their communal contribution to the construction of apartments from the Encouragement Building Programme. In fact, in a picturesque way, it would be about like this. Me and my cousin own a house in some co-ownership, and now I'm negotiating with you about selling that house, but in a way that my cousin has, he has to sell his share more favourably without asking him. That's about the meaning of Article 5 of this law. And it would be good, so it would be good, in terms of this, if the state gave up its part of the cake in stimulating housing such as VAT, then communal, actually water compensation, rather than giving its goodness and care to young families or potential customers from the PSO to local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86490	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86491	Thank you very much. I find it very difficult for a colleague to answer these mysterious questions through relatives. I'll try because I understand the meaning of your dilemma. I think Article 5 should be unimperative. He can't be binding. Each unit of local self-government must have its own criteria to relieve the individual of certain municipal charges. Each unit of local self-government will assess to what extent and how it will finance the infrastructure because it is not exclusively dependent on the material position of the municipality but on the needs of citizens. So she will assess the needs of the citizens. There are citizens, or there are environments in which there is no need for some to say so with great discounts but there are those environments where it is necessary to provide citizens with the help of the local self-government unit itself, regardless of what might be a great cost to the budget of the municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86492	The next replica, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86493	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague. I'm going to keep going a little bit, and what my colleague was saying about yours, colleague Tragevic. In fact, it is also true that our point of view should allow young people to resolve housing issues not only in cities but also in villages. But we also saw an example from Petrinja that it would not be enough to keep the youth in the villages to ensure only the issue of housing through this form. We've seen how the recovery situation has been restored. Unfortunately, people don't come back. Why? We do not have the possibility of an economic climate to create such that when a young man remains able to be employed and employed, there is much to be done that is not made and related to Croatian agriculture and related to the economic development of the state. So these measures have to go together because it's not worth anything if we just go solve this part. It must be dealt with in parallel, only then will this part be allowed for young people to remain. Here, last week I was Berku, it's in the area of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, so you see the situation, how many people work in general 20 and 30 work at the municipality level. This is your situation in many areas in Bjelovar-Belova County and elsewhere in Croatia, in all these areas. So let's do four things to get to the final score. Without it we won't because exactly what good law will be bad if it's carried out by bad people, and it'll be bad if it's carried out by good people, but it's part of the work of municipalities and cities and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86494	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86495	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague, Per. Of course, these measures, if we are to apply them to urban and rural environments, are not sufficient. That is why HSS prepared the material called "The Rebirth of Croatian Villages" with all the measures that should be taken right now to finally position the Croatian village where it belongs, to mention instead of forgetting, to start visiting instead of talking more about it. It is precisely the rebirth of the Croatian village that answers what we are talking about today and one of the measures will be a financial incentive to be able to live better and better in the country because our citizens have the right to do so and our citizens expect it to finally be done to them because they do not want to be citizens of the second order.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86496	And distinguished representative Željko Pavlic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86497	Mr. Markov proposes a universal solution to the collective direction and to introduce a differentiated approach after implementing this law. That's what I figured out from his exposure. So I agree with this other piece. Croatia unfortunately still does not have a law on regional development. A law which would therefore properly register all the differences that exist between individual counties, between certain regions and which are increasingly dramatic each day. For example, data on average salaries for last year tell us that the average salary is 4 thousand and 400 kuna, that the average salary in Međimurje County is 3 thousand kuna. The Međimurje County is the last place on average in the Republic of Croatia, that the average salary in the city of Zagreb is more than 5,000 kuna. So the data shows us about the height of the gross social product per capita, ranging from 4000 euros to 12 thousand euros, that is, a range that is inadmissible, and I think that a differentiated approach should be introduced for certain regions that need state aid so that they can achieve what is most important to achieve so that people remain in those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86498	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86499	I remain with the fact that I think universal law is the best but clearly according to the specific needs of different structures of citizens. The law can't be any different than universal. So we can't talk about it. As for regional development, of course he's a prerequisite for everything. Well, first of all, no one else will be able to protect individual resources in individual regions unless true regionalisation occurs in Croatia. So Europe rests on the fact that universal law does not protect market divergences, but regional approaches to regions of individual Europe protect certain production marks and certain resources that these regions have, and in some ways cannot protect the values in which this region rests through the central state, but regional sub-legislation can and must also regulate the meaning of this regionalism, which is the protection of specificity, protection of space, protection of resources in the interests of people living in that area.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86500	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are still six MPs and representatives on the subject. We're going to make that clear, so we're going to absorb this topic. I just plead not to go with so many replicas that we can finish by half two and then at 15 o'clock there will be a vote on all the points discussed for these past two weeks. So we wouldn't be doing any more debates than we'd end up discussing this agenda point. And 15 o'clock vote. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86501	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Minister with an associate. In fact, this is a very important topic that we are discussing because in a man’s life it is really important for him to get an education process, when he finishes his education process to get an adequate job and to solve the housing issue because he can only then say that he can make a family or normally work and live. The building was actually slowed down in Croatia back in the 1980s to completely disappear in the 1990s when it started in the privatisation process. social housing was sold, and not only were social housing held by commercial, or then social enterprises that then or independently through the privatisation process sold or transferred and privatised through the then housing funds. During that period, a large number of apartments that were then owned by the municipalities and the state were sold. So one general privatisation started and almost no adequate apartments remained that were as much housing conditions, which were not according to it, in the privatisation process sold. There was just a little more talking about the need for an apartment that would be more appropriate at the prices of an average citizen and of a younger family in the early 2000s. And I think that this, this law that was passed in 2001, is actually one process that we should build on despite having this now and another amendment proposed by this Law on Social Encouragement. Various stimulating measures have also tried to please young families and families who have not solved the housing issue. There were also subsidized interest rates. Saving cooperatives, housing cooperatives, and so on were also established. It also started with tax reliefs which in one period were up to 12,000 kuna per year a reduction in the tax base so that it would now be reduced to a total which I don't think is good regardless of what some analyses have tried to say that they can't use it any more than they use richer than I can agree with. Because someone who doesn't have an apartment and buys an apartment for the first time and buys it on loan can't really be classified as a rich citizen. And now it's certainly in our terms and the question of how a young family can get to the apartment if there's a job problem, so it's hard to get to work. When a job is often done for a certain period of time, and when it comes to older families where the elderly have not solved the housing issue so far, there are also problems because it often runs out of work, it remains on the long term. The question is, how long is it possible to take a long-term credit commitment if you're at a late age? So with this socially stimulating housing, you should think about not only municipalities and cities but probably the state and the building of apartments, so-called. social housing in which categories of citizens who are not materially able to buy an apartment could live on one protected apartment. In some countries, there is a possibility that such families may live in such apartments for a limited period of time until their material situation is improved and they are given a period within which they may be able to resolve their housing issue in a different way. And now, just a few remarks that have already been made, but I don't think it's necessary to repeat these proposed changes that should be given a certain explanation by the second reading or, to some extent, accept them. I think it's good that the increase in the price of the apartment is increased that it's good to increase this possibility when, as much as the participation can have the land and infrastructure price in the apartment price or square meter of the apartment and that it increases to 40% when we're already going with the increase in housing prices. However, I also have some colleagues who have discussed the objection to Article 5 so far. I don't think that it could explicitly say that no solution is being made or that a municipal contribution is not being paid because it should leave the possibility of local units deciding because it is their income. Local units are often denied a municipal contribution not only in housing but also in these areas industrial or entrepreneurial when they want an adequate, adequate buyer to employ labour from their territory. Commonly, or partly, the public contribution is denied. If we already want, of course, that payment of the municipal contribution will further affect the price increase. But if we already want to reduce the cost of living space in a way that reduces or abolishs certain fees or these, a few taxes at the very least, then the law should define that there is no pay or no solution and does not pay some of the revenue of the state, and this leaves the local community with the possibility of giving up the full or partial income that is the revenue of their budget. I could support this article 6 where, in which article 18 is deleted, it is not to go to direct negotiations. It is possible to accept the offer of builders that he builds on his land but it must be the same through a contest, not a direct contract. We are constantly criticising how certain provisions of the Public Procurement Act are being implemented and should not really be opposed to the regulation of the Law of Encouragement. As far as the new Article 28a is concerned, I also think that this should probably be regulated differently. If you are already thinking, and if in practice there are also cases of speculators that buy such apartments just for resales, then perhaps in another way you should solve them rather than limit those who have bought such a minimum square room for their family and come into a situation so that they can resolve their housing issue, of course, outside of this system of encouraging construction, to limit them from living in such an apartment for the first 10 years or 10 years, and wait until 11 years to try to adequately resolve their housing issue. In addition to this system of stimulating, housing encouraging housing, or socially stimulating housing, some other species should also be considered at this time to help our citizens who are unable to take credit obligations and thus come to a solution to the housing issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86502	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86503	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I'd like to correct my esteemed colleague Zgrebec when she said in her debate that many local units are abolishing or reducing the communal contribution in order to arrive as soon as possible, is there a problem for the young family? However, I repeat in the City of Zagreb i.e. Mr. Mayor just made the opposite of what we're looking for today, which is...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86504	You cannot debate under the institute of correcting an incorrect quote. He can't!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86505	I corrected it incorrectly, that it was incorrect that in the City of Zagreb it happened that it had just...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86506	I don't hear what...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86507	I'd ask you to keep your voice down and don't disturb me from correcting the quote. It is incorrect that local units reduce or abolish the municipal contribution. It is true that a municipal contribution has just been raised in the town of Zagreb in the edge areas of the town of Zagreb, more specifically the area of Brezovica, etc. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86508	Okay. Thank you. You've corrected an incorrect quote. You have no further right to debate. You have no right to debate or replica. You've corrected an incorrect quote. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86509	Mr. Vice President,.../The speaker shut down and reactivated.... Article 209. It's the Rules of Procedure because you didn't interrupt your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86510	How could I not?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86511	I wasn't talking about the City of Zagreb. I was talking about some units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86512	Some of them! All right!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86513	And I wasn't talking about the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86514	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86515	For example, no municipal contribution is paid in the town of Čakovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86516	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I broke up with my colleague and asked...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86517	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86518	You can't. You can't argue like that right now. Why don't you go get some coffee? Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86519	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, and I welcome you as well. In fact, what I didn't get to say in my opening notes would take advantage of the opportunity, and also by listening to everyone else in this debate today I see that the topic is really quite interesting. Namely, in the past term of the last government, as you know, this Law on Encouraged Apartment 2001 has been passed, which so far is not possible to replace or find any better solution to the issue of housing. I would point out that for Croatia the state and for other countries is very, very important that the state intervenes in the segment of housing and housing. Ignoring it means undermining certain construction lobbys. Why the windiness of my debate was such a result of the fact of numbers. So, of course, when we talk about the built-up, the construction data in this program, I don't mean that in this three-and-a-half-year term, this government has completed and issued the applicable permits. I do not at all argue that those in the recapitulation of 4482 apartments are not something that is of course the quality of those who worked on it. I'm talking about the revolving program. So, in order for you to be able to maintain the programme further, it is necessary to build large quantities of apartments in order not to heat up the deficit on the market, because the deficit in the housing market of gentlemen leads to Mr. Jure Radic and Mr. Zderic building apartments for 7,000 euros per square. So I'm talking about there's a state that's a factor, which needs to be corrected. We don't need to correct the factor at 7,000. Let's say that these are some exclusive, but let's correct the factor in the City of Zagreb at the price of a 3,000-euro square meter. The state is obliged to meet its citizens and correct both its initiative and the launch of housing projects, controlling the price of housing on the market. And for that reason, since I once again point out, of all the figures this government has made in this term, it has launched two locations in Kutina and Dugi Sel with 50 apartments. We can't keep controlling the housing market. When I mentioned the City of Zagreb, and I will mention it once again, what really hurts me is that the project of 2735 or 37 apartments was left to the City of Zagreb, and that this square that we have characterized with enormous torments in 2003 was the fastest possible way we could in any way with the huge obstruction we have had, that this square that we have then managed to get under 900 euros is committed and left in the hands of the City of Zagreb, which is the same square regardless of the other model and I agree with Mrs. Jelena I know what she meant by selling for 1290 euros. So 400 euros more expensive. The square is a square, and let's be honest with the social housing of the City of Zagreb, I think it is amoral and untasteful to solve on the back of those who, with a hard time anyway, come to buy an apartment somewhere on the periphery, and also on a pig farm, as it was very often noted in a very malignant, very malignancies way. So, I think that leaving this project is what I really think is true, that it is the abandonment of this project, and that you gentlemen had instruments in it, because I say once again you as a ministry are superior to every unit of local self-government and also to the county, as well as to the City of Zagreb. So, you had the mechanism to insist on, in the time of the previous Mayor Pavić or today's Mayor Bandic, on obtaining a 32-ha contract for this land in the unique property of the City of Zagreb and to build 900 euros for the citizens of the City of Zagreb apartments. Personally, I have to admit that it hurts me, and at 400 euros, I don't know who was all interested in getting that price together. I have to admit, I really don't know. It's about realisation. All the other numbers mentioned by Mr Markovanovic are numbers that we can discuss later on with coffee are the question of what was done, who planned what in 2006, who planned what they planned in 2007. I'm not talking about plans and good wishes. I'm talking about what was built or what was in the building. So, Kutina was built and Long Village was built, or it hasn't even finished yet, but it's being built, so let's just say it is materialized. As far as law and land prices are concerned, I agree. The land was to be harvested. I think it should have been differentiatedly collected from local self-government units depending on the price, the height dictated by the IRS. As far as Article 18 is concerned, So, as much as it is your intention to increase the land price to 20% of the talent, you get the opportunity to buy more land and, say, expand that programme. So, I don't dispute in your good intentions, but I'm really more concerned with Article 18 that you're excluding the possibility that construction companies that own their own land, often this land has been some storage space of ancient times, from the 50s, that they are engaged in their own operations and building apartments if there is interest in these units of local self-government. Unlike fellow Markovanovic, who constantly mentions "Conning" I will mention something else here. I will mention Lavčević... in Sibenik, it was a land owned by Lavčević. I'll mention Lavčević at Bill's Care in Zadar, it was land from Lavčević. So, citizens of Zadar, except thanks to good Mayor Kalmeti's 180 apartments across the city for 660 euros, they also got the rest of the apartments from about 60 or 100 apartments on Bill's care thanks to the fact that Lavčević's operative was interested in building apartments on his land under conditions of value for POS. So we can find examples of diverse, we have Ouzen, by Metkovic, examples of Ragusa, we have examples, so we have examples in Pitomachi, etc. We have various examples, unfortunately Mr. Markovanovic always remembers the example only "Coninga". As far as other prices are concerned, the price of the collection of water contributions. For a water contribution, I said that I think in Article 5(4) should be classified and thought about what you will and where you will include a water contribution because it is an imposition that came later after the law was passed and de facto endangers in some way or burdens additionally every square meter of apartment. As for these withdrawals of funds 35% where JLS gives its land, I agree that it should be transferred back to JLS as soon as possible so that local self-government funds can engage in the construction and preparation of land, building infrastructure. As for the model model in article 30, which I have already qualified as a disgrace because zero was made in that model. I would just like to remind you that at the moment you brought these changes and additions in 2004 that you knew very well what financial state the Croatian state is and what state Croatian citizens are in. Well, you didn't imagine that in some village of Banovo Jaruge someone could do a loft upgrade through the company I don't know, "Constructor" or "IGH" for example. I hope you didn't expect that! So it was to expect upgrades and constructions and reconstructions to go on the basis of self-building. Well, that's what you knew back then, and it showed up anyway. So no one went to have to think about how to build somewhere in a little rural or a little suburban environment and that maybe this isn't the only way. Of course, you should think of building in smaller environments whether you are going to systematically build family homes, whether you are going to systematically build houses in a series, so that we can get closer to the needs of the rural population. Yes, I agree with that, in that sense I expected you to work these three and a half years, and I would very much like to see some of those shifts in this law. But I would also mention that this law was, I answer to Mrs. Zgrebec on the way. That this law provided that the local self-government unit could, for the purposes of its cities and municipalities, be the customers of the stimulated housing programme and then rent these apartments for the needs of their social services. So it would be logical for the City of Zagreb to buy apartments in Zagreb through POS and to solve its list of 2,000 and 700 or 2,000 and 200 people along with the benefited, or subsidized state interest. That would be to expect normal, right, and not just in Zagreb and elsewhere, of course. I also think that it might be thought that the issue of protected tenants and employers is solved by this model. That would also be a good model. And just one more second if I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86520	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86521	I am, in fact, just a second if I may.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86522	You can't!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86523	In these five years, I haven't responded to the dynamics of implementing this program. I'd like to ask you nicely...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86524	No, he can't. He can't take it anymore. You'll have a few replicas, so you'll say in replicas, probably. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86525	Here's a thank you to my colleague for calling me so many times, but I have to quote your guilty quote. Veli: The existing 2001 law is impossible to replace with better solutions. Well, I don't think that's true for any law, even our laws that we're making right now are likely to replace someone with better solutions. But you just proved to your colleagues that you needed to change it because you were setting up jobs for your own minister's companies, sharing jobs through competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86526	Thank you. Don't discuss under the institute...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86527	Mr. Vice President, I'm only reading from the audit, which is why it was necessary to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86528	I know, I know. But please don't debate under the institute correcting the incorrect allegations, then we'll get to the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86529	Well, I'm just saying, Mr. Vice President, that the law needs to be amended, because by law, you didn't want to hear me out until the end of what I'm sorry for, and I've only got three warnings from you so far, hopefully the fourth. It is the new law that offers solutions that... /The speaker will turn off and back on./... to make these machinations actually forget.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86530	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86531	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Alenka, stated that this law establishes the price of land 70 euros more than the current one. Of course that's not true. This law limits the price of land that can be purchased and taken to build buildings and apartments of POS. Therefore, in my Pakrac, where I was born, there can be 5 euros and will be calculated with those 5 euros, not 140 euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86532	Thank you. A typical correction to an incorrect quote, please look up to Agent Shirtz. Replica, the esteemed representative Pavičić Vukičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I really don't mean to pollomise with this phenomenal model of socially stimulating housing, i.e. POS, but since we've talked again and again today about this 400-euro price per square metre between two completely different models, so POS and Zagreb's housing, then I think it's convenient to say what's in those 400 euros difference per square. There are two primary schools, there are high school, there are two kindergartens, there are post office, infirmary and other of course facilities from parks to playgrounds and there are about 900 social apartments. Because these people on the social housing list, as well as those on which we're assigning apartments past the social criteria, don't have a single euro per square for the apartment. Not a single euro, let alone 700 or 900 euros. We have taken a picture of the situation in the City of Zagreb, a housing strategy has been made in collaboration with the Faculty of Law and Professor Bežovana and we have offered the Zagrebans a completely different model than this model we are talking about today and no one is polymising with the model of socio-enhancing housing, it is a model that is certainly in some parts of it that has received some results. But this is really when I talk about Zagreb, what is being built today in the Sesvets is about the Zagreb model of housing, and these two models cannot be compared at least in their own quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86534	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of the Chichin-Shain basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86535	Thank you. My colleague Vukicevic, at least I wanted to catch you in this region and that model, but I must honestly say, the situation is that this is exactly what the projects were done for encouraging housing, and they have been resold for the project of the Zagreb model. If you had created a Zagreb model on the submarine or I don't know on Borovje or anywhere else, I would have said ok, I'd say it's an immigration program because at the age of five, which is the limit for you to get the opportunity to buy that apartment, I can't do it any different than the immigration program. After college a year of traineeship and you can be creditworthy to buy an apartment in the Zagreb model. But as far as these concrete things are concerned, Sopnica, Jelkovec and the school and colleagues Vukicevic were still in 2003, we had the funds provided in the CEB program for the construction of schools. As for parks, trees, lawns and all that, it goes from utility equipment. So let's not mix things up, shall we?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86536	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I was surprised yesterday when on the side of the party representing the CNS came a request for the replacement of the minister to make some changes, and you said yourself that on the issue of Sesveda 400 euros went up, I think she said so and Mrs Vukicevic Pavicic said it was because of school. And what about these edges of the City of Zagreb where 400 euros went, and no school, no kindergarten, no institution? And the other thing, there were some lands that went for 1 million kuna, so in a year they sold for 10 and a half million kuna. For as many as 9 million could have made lower square apartments in any... whether in Zagreb, Sesvetama or on the edges of the City of Zagreb, so we could when you listed all these places in Zagreb and around Zagreb, you could have for this example the new Zagreb, but I am not speaking these new buildings across the street from Lisinski. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86538	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86539	I think this is about two different things, but what a colleague I want to warn you about. So, all these gatherings of communal contributions that you're talking about in all the border zones, etc. which has been better proportional to 7 zones so far, but I don't think that's the subject of today's conversation here. I think it's my kind's pighouse, but I'll talk about it in the City of Zagreb, I've already talked about it because it's on the coat of arms of the segment where it's most built to make money for which investments should otherwise be financed from other titles. And as for this very specific project, however, it pains me that the ministry and the minister who is a capable woman, who is an energetic woman, whom I expected in 2003, will succeed in driving out the project until the end to earn 400 euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86540	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86541	Well, a colleague of Kosisa Chicin-Shain actually says no one limits local self-government to building or as part of building a socio-enhancing apartment buys social housing. Well, I agree with that, but I'm the only one who said that there's very little, and the needs are great that she could have and could have included the state I'll say on the next example. In the '90s, when the social housing fund sold out, we don't even know where those funds ended, they were shared between local self-government and state. Whether they were paid into that fund that was supposed to finance the housing, we have no information, and that the dwellings of the 1990s were not built at all is a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86542	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86543	Well, Mrs. Zgrebec, of course there are no systematic housing development strategies and protection of interest and housing funds in Croatia. That's the problem, and that's the role of the ministry, and if the ministry had run one system policy, then in the '90s, it wouldn't have happened if all the apartments and tenants had been sold out, that in the portfolio of what's called rental apartments or state-owned social apartments there was nothing left, but I mean 4%, and 96% of the apartments were in the hands of private owners. That wouldn't have happened. I agree with you and from this project, this programme could allow units of local self-government to invest and buy apartments in this programme for the needs of people who do not need to have an apartment owned. If you're 65 years old and you live alone, you don't have an heir so you don't need an apartment in your possession, and under normal circumstances you need an apartment to rent it. So there is a lack of systematic housing policy in the country of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86544	Thank you. Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think for a few questions we should say a few words. I'm really surprised to see Mrs. Representatives keep telling me there's no strategy. We started making a strategy unlike those that were also in power four years ago, and no strategy was adopted either. But what's important is to say that this government adheres to the law, including the Law of Property and other real rights. Whether I could have done something or not, I couldn't take away the land and neither could you or I to the City of Zagreb because I say there are our laws. You were able to help us in this way when you were in coalition power with the SDP in the City of Zagreb to force them to make such a decision and to surrender their land to the APN, or to the Croatian state. You didn't do it. So it's all your fault. There's one more thing to say. We are not any apartments, we have resold projects, we have replaced the projects for 196 apartments that we will get at that location from the City of Zagreb. So, we didn't go making money, but we couldn't, it couldn't have lasted that long because the contractors you signed the contracts with worked so hard on us that we, and we couldn't get our hands on the land because we couldn't come steal it from someone or just take it away. Therefore, we simply could not do so with the best of will. And as for Article 18 and those builders you're fighting hard for now that they should continue to work this way, we have a complete analysis. I just said how many million. 471 million that was spent on it. So they're agreed, directly. But with the highest cost of construction. And there's no price that's not below 910 euros per square. Because you have arranged for them to perform works and design and construction of municipal infrastructure and land. Everything. And let me just ask you one more thing then in all this together. We couldn't solve our worlds. In your ten thousand dwellings is the Sesvete with two thousand 900,... is Makarska for which today is still a court dispute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So don't say you had your locations ready. And by the way, I'm not saying that you didn't have any projects for any of the things, and especially you didn't have local and construction permits. However, there was once an opportunity to do without it and to surrender to use without any use. And unfortunately, it's gone today. ... No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, theirs is not mine. Of course. If we didn't, we wouldn't be doing it that way. I'd just like to tell Mrs. Vukicevic. I'm very pleased that you have so many locations. But I'm asking you nicely, you still have 6 thousand people on the POS list and you haven't secured a single location. So, other than these locations you're now talking about, give one of those locations to build POS apartments and there's no reason not to do that. Because you're bound to. So you can do it. And I just wish I didn't talk about everyone, but something needs to be said about rural areas because Mr. Markov and a lot of MPs talked about it. What this government has done is it's the first time she's called a loan tender for banks. There used to be a bank that served all the people who bought apartments and interest rates at an average of 5.6%. Today there are three banks and 6.4%. Today there are three banks and is 5.6% average interest. So, there's been some interest reduction, which is certainly good. As regards rural areas or areas of special state concern. You probably don't know, but the government has made a decision that said that if built in such areas of POS housing, in that case land is given if on state land it is dumped. Therefore, it is a good decision, especially for those areas that are the problem. And as for the construction of individuals, it means that according to our article of the law, where units of locals can be built or built up, and so on, no one can, they are even. But the price doesn't have to be 700 euros in construction. How many of the craftsmen? And no big firm, no one needs to build it. It's a craftsman. We're just asking him to have a contract and have an account. And nothing else. If the state needs to give something. So there's a certain benefit given. However, we will certainly consider something else that the state could deny to get more in these areas. So we're going to try and thank you for now for all these constructive proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86546	I thank the minister. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86547	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues! I am correcting the incorrect assumption that although he is figuratively said, as a coalition partner, counterpart Chichin-Shain should have forced her partner to secure land for the construction of POS apartments. It's not possible to force anyone to make a decision... That's what you said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is not possible and must not be so decided or done here when it comes to construction, this part, especially of POS's apartments. It is then necessary to actually make sufficient quality arguments that any party in the decision-making process is convinced that it is of direct interest and the needs of our citizens and that it is good quality for it to work. In this respect, the state must also take more steps and activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86548	Thank you. It's so-called. correcting the impossible quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86549	That's what's said.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86550	The esteemed correction of the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86551	Here, Madam Minister said in her statement one inaccuracy. We couldn't get our hands on the land. However, here is your claim to deny the fact, a specific case, despite the fact that it is an incorrect claim that the state could not have reached land. When here, specifically in the town of Zadar, the sale of state land is under way through Croatia's forests, almost in the city centre. And this terrain, this area and the park, could have been used for this purpose either donated or given for the purposes of similar or some kind of public needs, specifically the city of Zadar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86552	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86553	She would correct the inaccuracies of the Minister who told me I was fighting for the builders. On the contrary, Madam Minister, I don't fight for builders. I'm fighting for all those people in local self-government units, gentlemen, where you, in the face of local administration leadership, didn't want to start building apartments of stimulating housing. And by throwing out Article 18, you're making an alibi that you still don't have to do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86554	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. The need for housing is a fundamental human need. He still said Dostoevsky was a man without an apartment, a man without psychology. The construction of apartments according to the POS programme began, as we all here have repeated this lesson since 2001, and prices remained approximately... Give your colleague Kovacevic a minute. And prices remained about the same to date and land prices doubled. Of course, especially in larger cities, where the need for housing is, of course, the need for housing and the greatest. Local self-government is difficult to secure land for POS apartments at lower prices and only for 70 euros per fourth metre. Because that's how cheap the land on the market is gone. [[Intruder: square.]] According to the proposed amendments to the existing law, the maximum average land price could still be twice as high as so far when calculated. According to the calculations themselves, and this follows from the very explanation of this Government proposal, the maximum price of POS apartments would be collected from the current 910 euros per square metre to 980. The changes would eliminate the possibility of land and construction being negotiated directly, which is certainly a good situation, and as well as a solution to the ban on selling 10 years of such apartments. Of course, in the case of sales, such an owner would have to compensate for that price he paid from the market price. In all developed cities of Europe, therefore local self-government is the initiator of housing, which means that they can and should have the most impact on the price of the apartment, and not as we do despite all the laws so far, and these changes will not be possible to prevent or prevent private investors. The amendment of this law takes place in a situation long ago, so a few years ago, two and more years ago, has reduced the incentive state resources, reduced tax reliefs, precisely intended for young couples, for young families to get to their own roof over their heads as soon as possible. How do you control this hilarious rise in prices and apartments and land? And how can an average Croatian citizen come, especially young families, get to the apartment as soon as possible? The answer to this question cannot be given without an active state policy, not only through construction and through this concrete proposal but also by state policies towards state land but also towards land units of local self-government. The former institutes that also exist in the Law of Property and other real rights as if they did not exist. There's only sales and sales. Isn't there a building rights institute that has always been used since Roman law? He's almost completely abandoned with us. When has anything been done lately with the Institute of Construction? Landing in a concession is rare here and there. But why don't we use the Institute of Building Rights? This is exactly the kind of institution that builds apartments, no matter who builds them, whether the state, whether or not the unit of local self-government, is private. It would be much, much cheaper. Someone's obviously okay with that. Therefore, we do not have one systematic, although the state has promised, the state is constantly declaring that it will protect the most valuable and non-renewable resource that remains in Croatia and that is state land. And land that serves public use, that is, owned by a unit of local self-government. Let's just remember a few laws that we've passed over the past two years right through this declared government policy that, in fact, there's practically nothing at all, we've changed a few laws where the first-ever law institute was introduced. So the question arises, what has the state bought to protect the land, to enable such valuable programmes. In fact, the situation is different from selling state land. I mentioned this case in Zadar almost in the city's most sold state despite the declared goal, my program that it will not sell, that it will protect the sale of Croatian forests its terrain. It's not on the trail of at least a declared policy. It is true and the fact is that in Croatia construction is the most inclusive activity. That's what we have one, so there's a paradox going on. On the other hand, an ordinary citizen is finding it harder to reach an apartment, especially in his own young family. Just last year, it's been spinning in the construction industry of 20 billion kunas. And one withinr in itself, from the builders themselves, claims that the annual turnover of only one company achieved out of a billion kuna in construction. And that right now they're just so powerful, and they've strengthened right on public business, and now that one small, but super powerful group has such power that it really is in a position of objective, real position to dictate both urban and construction policy. To the authorities, to the local, or to the state, which they do in one way or another rarely do. This also raises the question of the policy of issuing building permits. The fact is that often a regular citizen is in the building zone, although his own grandfather is none, there is always some missing paper, the problems with issuing building permits are great. As soon as a privateer builds a huge building without any problems, it becomes a building zone, we won't get into those stories now and gets a building permit without a problem. It's one problem that's especially on the ground, in certain environments it's evident. Here he was mentioned by counterpart Košisa Chichin-Shain project of building POS specifically in the city of Zadar. But we have problems like this. I think the ministry must be familiar with them, and it is probably also known through the revision that there are funds that are secured, or collected by the sale of apartments where once there was a tenant law by letter of law, according to an imperative standard must be used precisely for the purpose of building social housing. Unfortunately, in the city of Zadar, we haven't built a single apartment in 17 years, and these funds lie needlessly on certain banks. So the question is, why? And the big problem is precisely that citizens who won't be able to win, i.e. that I don't know what benefits through the POS programme will not be able to get involved in this programme but remain only to secure their roof over the head based on building social housing. So although it is within the authority and authority of the unit of local self-government but the ministry could therefore take care of it when the behaviour of certain local self-government is not on the trail of explicit legal norms. So the question arises what are we going to get with this bill in the end? The apartments will collect. They'll collect, it's obvious by reason because it's collected, it's unsustainable, the existing law is a good part, because it's accumulated land prices. But with one active but unfulfilled management policy and state land, as well as the land of units of local self-government, this could have been contained in such a way. The fact is that in cities, so where they are built in places where they used to be factories owned by workers, they've been expelled from there long ago and there's no big buildings where they don't have a chance of moving in because prices are astronomical, they're not even tailored to rich people at all, so that's how they'll probably be staying strangers.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86556	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86557	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I am correcting an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague who says I should calm down. I can't calm down, I was amazed because I read Mrs. Nada Lukic's letter, and she addressed me and her colleague, the case of Mrs. Marinovic's cheating on her. She pays for it all the time. On top of paying 20 thousand kuna... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86558	You can't correct under the institute of it. I'm giving you a warning. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86559	This is a disgrace and a shame and here you're saying that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86560	Dear Representative Širac. Here you go. ... A little quiet, please. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86561	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, a colleague of MP Antičević presented several incorrect allegations, and I will only have one. He says we don't have the protection of state land. Well, I can't believe my colleagues, that claim is incorrect. I can't believe that you don't know that we have the Law on Forests, the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Agricultural Land, that we have spatial plans, that we have plans to protect specific areas, that it is precisely known that the land is available and that what is sold in accordance with the laws is not illegal. Therefore, legal protection in the Republic of Croatia exists and our institutions are using it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86562	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86563	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's an entirely incorrect quote that the state has cut tax reliefs for young families. Well, that's really incorrect. So this country has returned, like, maternity benefits, a series of things. ... Please don't, colleague. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Secondly, the colleague also incorrectly states that Croatian forests sell land, and therefore there are no POS apartments. The solution is with forests but then it wasn't Croatian, it was only '46. when the returnees of the forest received the most luxurious apartments in Zagreb richly furnished with gold.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86564	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86565	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to replicate. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic said nicely that when our citizens buy real estate they have bad problems, no papers, no permits, they need a lot of things to handle. I got just one ideal example yesterday so you could do nice business. In one of our beautiful towns, Virovitica sells a street full of houses, private houses. The price of one house is worth 50 to 60 thousand euros, and behold, a house has been sold separately for 270 thousand euros and the signing of your SDP Vice President Zeljke Antunovic. And it's an ideal model, so let's all sell like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86566	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86567	Well, I think there's a case here where a man has his own property. I think the state should take care of something when it sells to be a good host, so it's just trying to sell its own land as much as it costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86568	Thank you. Let's move on. Honorable representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86569	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There is no dispute that the dynamics of designing apartments of stimulating housing in the last few years are smaller than it was before. At the end of 2003 there were 10 thousand apartments in the construction phase, in the phase of contracting construction, competitions, and in the design phase, and we are therefore witnesses that during the last few years, during which time these governments were built or apartments are built only in Kutina and Dugi Selo and are planned to be built in the city of Zagreb in Sopnica and in Duboko Jark. If there were objections and objections, if this model is considered to be good and the ministry claims in its opening statement that the model is good, then these shortcomings should have been removed and continued with this dynamic building and planning of apartments. Because if the ministry says that these apartments are even twice as cheap as the apartments on the market, then the non-building of these apartments directly contributes to those who are building apartments on the market, which means that they are deliberately or unintentionally suitable for the construction lobby. So it's undeniable to say so. And I'm sorry why the government has made this model that itself declares good actually slowed down and significantly reduced the dynamics of building and planning these apartments. Another thing that's important. This model is not only a model of universal housing but it could be a model that could encourage regional policy and we know that the difference in the regional development of this country is too large, that some of our regions are 17 times more developed than others and if you look at these locations where they are built, where they are planning to build apartments and that is Kutina, it is Long Village and these are two locations in Zagreb. It's about central Croatia. For reasons of regional policy against the depopulation of Croatia, it would be better if these apartments were built in County, Vinkovci, Drnis, Knin, Gospić, so in those areas where they threaten, where the country's permanent depopulation is. This is a very important instrument for regional policy as well, so if a colleague in Petrinja says they are not interested in the price of the apartment then the state and local self-government must find ways to make it possible, with additional benefits, for the people in Petrinja to be interested in the construction and not to build apartments anyway where there is great pressure, such as in the city of Zagreb. There was a speech here about erasing Article 18. The reason is that it is contracted mostly at a maximum price, but the maximum price is still almost twice as low as the market price. So if someone at that price wants to build in accordance with the law, what would be the issue? Of course, if the state considers that it is possible to hit at a lower price some guess and at a lower price, but that maximum price, I repeat, is still almost twice as low as the market price and if it is worth it to someone, then the State should also be paid for it. So I don't think there's any reason to cancel Article 18. Not to say that this is one of the forms of public-private partnership for which we are taking up a special session of the government and meeting with Croatian county mayors was organised to promote a public-private partnership and here this declared government policy is leaving in a very important segment. And of course something that is impossible to avoid which is the city of Zagreb, since two locations are therefore planned in the city of Zagreb whose expansion should stop for the sake of developing other parts of this country without talking about that it is not the task of local self-government to build apartments for the market. Local self-government can and should build apartments of social nature, but not so concentrated because it is contrary to social policy measures, socialization of families who need social support. 900 social housing in one place is not a proper social policy measure. Not to mention that the city, any city, when we have in Zagreb 10% of households that have no water and 20% of households that have no sewers then the city has nothing to build apartments for the market. Therefore, not entering the price and all possible structures of the infrastructure facility that Jelena was talking about here is not the basic task of the city of Zagreb until these basic functions and this is the insurance of municipal infrastructure have been completed. And they are not fulfilled because in the city of Zagreb we have the largest number, relatively, the largest number of schools that work in three shifts throughout the Republic of Croatia. And while these basic tasks of local self-government have not been solved, there is no need for the city to engage in something like building apartments for the market and this is not the way to concentrate or build social housing. And now something about the Councils I live in and where I come from and whose citizens have chosen me in this House. There's a high level of housing there anyway. Natural. Because of space and something less, lower prices and so on. It already warns of the danger that the city's infrastructure, the city's districts, will not be enough. And then what happens in that city or that city district? Urban plans are being brought in, detailed arrangements that encourage private construction, private investment. In the last two years, such 4 urban planning arrangements have been adopted, and, of course, after their adoption, private construction will immediately erupt with the basis of the profit race. It's the Novo Brestje, the settlement I live in. It's a deep ditch. It's a brick of Sesvete and it's a former Sesvetski King farm. In such circumstances, when this situation makes it worse, even more difficult than natural construction without these plans, a city with a farm is inserted, a former Sljeme pig farm with nearly 3,000 apartments and the matter is even worse as if local self-government and state administration are not in any kind of relationship and the city and state plans to build there in two locations. In Sesvetnica and in the deep ditch. This means that in the next three, four or five years, 15 thousand new apartments will be built in that part of town and I don't see roads being built, waterways being reinforced, sewers being stepped up without talking about electrical service systems. Where are we going to meet after those 3 or 4, 5 years with the new 50 thousand inhabitants if we're going to let all this get built up I don't know when? In 10 years. It will not be possible to live there and already today this part of the town of Zagreb, or the Republic of Croatia, is almost fully burdened and traffic and infrastructure and so on. As if the city of Zagreb and the state of the Republic of Croatia had nothing to do with each other. And what's going on with that famous forest, the world park forest? Since the state has no other location but has only the land covered by the forest it asks of the city of Zagreb and it pleases these 15 acres of forest in the heart of Sesveta turns into a building zone and then there is a privateer whose forest is also made by the decision of the City of Zagreb 10 hectares into a building zone and what is the consequence of it all? That in Sesvets because the City of Zagreb and the state are unable to agree on where the apartments of POS will be built, we lose 25 hectares of forest in the heart of Sesveta. Is that the policy that needs to be promoted? So I think the fundamental provision of this law, the one that speaks of an increase in prices, is logical. In that sense, this law should be supported. That's why, unlike most of our laws, it's well-founded. That's very rare. It is one of the few exceptions in the laws proposed in this Croatian Assembly. But this law, for a number of these other reasons, because of the lack of coherence of policies and at least because of the reduction of the construction of not the law, but therefore the policy that the government is leading in this regard does not deserve a passing assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86570	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86571	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, counterpart Radoš said in his presentation: "The past government has designed 10,000 apartments". That's not true. It was just wishful desires. The plan was to build 3960 apartments. It's only made 906. But that's why 4200 apartments were contracted without project documentation, without solved property-legal relations, without building permit, without local permission. So without everything that's in accordance with our laws, it's necessary for that kind of construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86572	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. So I'm listening to the debate, so I have to admit it to me and apologize for it, I have to be cynical and say, paraphrasing an old saying, "Bless the Croats when they have POS." They cannot buy 3 thousand euro apartments anyway and at least they can pay those at sea who are paid EUR 5, 6 or 10 thousand. And right behind that, I think the average, average Croatian knows that housing and housing policies are the most sensitive and significant. That she must definitely be in line with the country's development strategy. It must be consistent with sustainable development in society. It has to be absolutely consistent with the demographic policy of state and society, population policy, and as far as I understand politics, it's more about whether construction machinery and builders will be employed than if someone gets a quality apartment. Well, we didn't get a single report about what kind of POS was built. We haven't received a single report. I had a chance, so I went into some buildings that were built on POS, so I'm going to say about like this. As POS's construction is the cheapest while buying, and the most expensive will be for whoever lives inside. Already now Croatians have experience, which means an unskilled apartment when they had to buy it twice, and already in New Zagreb, without saying elsewhere they have to pay in the reserve one-third of their salary to protect what they have. So girls live in a row, and who fix them? Who's fixing them? The one who has to. The one that's the last one upstairs, 'cause they're having a hard time making deals. We're having a debate about whether the price of POS apartments today will be 900 or 700 kuna, which looks attractive to our listeners, our voters, but we're not talking about what these apartments will look like in 10 years. Who's going to live in them and what's the problem with these apartments... produce. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would love to have the government decide, and it would be a good idea to conclude that the Agency for Real Estate Transport, which has been nominated to run the purchase, sale and traffic of real estate on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, is taking care of the construction of apartments, POS apartments. This is under the Law on POS and by the Decision establishing the Agency, giving all the elements necessary for housing policy so that the Parliament knows what is happening in housing. We can't, we can't really be irresponsible, so we don't know what the Croatian housing situation will look like not for a year but for 20 years. So we know what happened before. Now let's not ideologically introduce it with targeted housing in past systems. Therefore, it should be pointed out that the agency is established as a non-profit organisation, precisely because society, the state, is interested in building housing not being a place of profit if we talk about this. So, the state, society is interested that the quality of these apartments is not "hold water while the masters leave", that it has building standards and housing standards. Who took this more seriously, and this is being analysed by people, are large objections to POS construction, experts, sociologists, demographics, builders, urbanists in particular. Sustainable development implies that we know what Gospić will look like in demographic and economic terms for 15 years, and in this we adapt this housing building. Of course the social situation makes us react very quickly, because the pressure on which is logically a colleague Dragica Zgrebec has said that there are three life priorities – to be educated, to get some occupation, to call, to get a job and to have a roof over your head. It is enough to say so little if we want to have organised society and sustainable development. It's a momentary meeting of man's needs. But that doesn't solve the problem, it doesn't solve demographics, it's not sociological, it's not spatial, it's not developmental. I'll go back to the Realtor's Agency once more. Why should all the apartments, all the areas of the Republic of Croatia, have the same housing policy, the same standards and the same needs if we know that I do not know one end of the tourist resort has been defined for strategic tourism development. So his needs in the area are quite different than if we were to tell Sisak who was supposed to be and remain an industrial city. And just using money from POS construction would also be interesting to check through reports and commercial and state audits. Why don't the citizens know what goes into the price of construction when we're already saying that these are apartments to meet the great needs of Croatian citizens for living space. Well, I think it's also the government's obligation to make extra profits to the construction lobby and builders in a variety of ways to stop them. If it can't organise apartments for commercial needs on its own, then it has to say 700 or how many euros by some other means, so the price of building POS and selling apartments for 3,000 euros. In which the difference is 2100 euros in commercial construction. What's she made up of? Where does that extra profit go? Who's capable of organizing construction? Who guarantees the quality of built apartments? How long is the warranty period going on, and who's controlling it? I think that this issue deserves a serious debate, so once again, I ask that the Assembly's conclusion be made by the agency, and the Agency's supervision of the work is being conducted by the ministry gets a full report on the complete POS construction for the whole time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86574	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86575	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament here is very short. In his debate, MP Leko cited the following. “A policy is being conducted in this apartment to make construction machinery, so that construction machinery and builders can get jobs.” E Mr. Leko is not true! According to the State Audit, this was the case during last government, but now the government's policy is aimed at addressing the issue of housing part of citizens who are being encouraged by public funds because they cannot handle the issue of housing by their own means.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86576	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86577	Comrade Leko, I would like to tell you that the number of objections to commercial construction that is three times more expensive than this POS is also large and equal to the number you have in POS. Besides, you know, POS is building construction companies, not butchers. And finally, building, every builder does the best he can to build knowledge, as every surgeon does the best he can and knows. So all that comes in commercial construction more than what cost construction is nothing but a wasteful profit in commercial sales.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86578	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86579	Thank you very much. Obviously we have different logics from colleagues of the Chichin-Shain basket. It's sad if there's the same number of objections on commercial construction as on POS's construction. So we pay 3 thousand and 4 thousand euros in commercial construction, and of course I'm going to watch if my record is from Austria or Spain, and I'm going to see if there's a tile in the micron or not and what the tap is on, the tap or whatever it is said and how it works, whether it's heard or not when the water's moving in the toilet. Of course we'll control it. And go into POS's apartments and try to play cards or sleep with your husband or wife, and you'll see how it echoes. No, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86580	Very interesting. The word has been respected by Vice-President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86581	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. You know, I expected that the amendment of this law would actually open up a space for major state intervention in areas based on regional policies in peripheral areas related to the achievement of encouraging housing. Unfortunately, there is a possibility that the unit of local self-government and there provide land, they generally have, but the incentive means are not enough and in this respect should do much more to actually try to solve these issues throughout the Republic of Croatia. They are rightly those who, colleagues and colleagues who warn that this benefit for younger families is achieved only in the city of Zagreb or in several major cities of the Republic of Croatia. The other thing I would like to say is the question that it is really necessary to establish a minimum standard for building these apartments so that we don't simply read, because it is ugly and read this and where do those who bought these apartments live in such apartments related to all the gaps, shortcomings and flaws that these apartments have when they usually move in. Thirdly, it is very interesting that it is a law that should encourage young families to reach the first apartment. And if it is going to increase the price they should pay then it should monitor at least the growth of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. But again, it seems that this 7.7% is almost twice as far away as the average wage price in the Republic of Croatia is growing if the inflation rate is added then it is two or three times that. Therefore, two things will happen again from these consequences, given the fact that the units of local self-government are committed through the payments of part of the self-dependence that the burden of increasing this price will actually be paid on the one hand by future owners and users of that apartment, the young family. And on the other hand, the local self-government unit, and basically the state that has the biggest increase in budget revenues this year, will actually transfer part of the responsibility and burden to these entities. After all, for the first time, there was also a surplus of income in the Republic of Croatia's budget which, as you know, were even in February and armed to not actually be spent instead of returning to the citizens in this indirect or direct way through tax cuts. Fourthly, I have to say that it's a very interesting solution, but questionable to me, even from a constitutional point of view. I believe that units of local self-government can, in accordance with our Constitution and the European Convention on Local Self-Government, only grant those obligations for which they are originally received and sources of revenue that they can finance. I also believe it is not possible to transfer the funding obligation to local self-government units, while at the same time the new sources of income of local self-government units do not have, as is now done in Article 2 where it is said that local self-government units should be paid 35% of the price of municipal infrastructure and infrastructure connections. In fact, the question is which burden will fall on that price. Well, it's going to be a burden on the citizens of that unit or local self-government. And in this context, a very serious question is actually raised whether and to what extent it is well worked out from the constitutional point of view. Fifthly, I must say that as far as eradicating Article 18 is concerned, which allowed the direct agreement and the settlement, I certainly support it, and I agree that this is not just a matter of transparency and the public to possibly eliminate possible forms of subsistence, not to say by Roman-legal approach... or in modern, bribery and corruption, rather than far more important, that with the importance of these things, it is actually important because through a public tender it can be possible to get a cheaper price than it was used in the contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am particularly interested in the new article 28. A, i.e. Article 8. You know, selling property that is pre-limited as property rights from the point of view of the fullness of the right to be available by means of a contract, it's also possible to predict that. However, in principle here I am starting to assume first that these issues should be resolved not on these limits but in fact through a change in the tax system where a speculative tax law should finally be adopted in Croatia. I don't think I should pay the price difference in higher prices to the value of the apartment price after, if those 10 years I just have to... I think the total value of the apartment should then be paid at the market price of the tax and that progressive tax because it is a speculative sale. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another question I also want to talk about, if such restrictions must be put in place because we do not have a speculative tax law, then taxation is speculative and simply obtained, then the question is actually whether there are some cases of more force when the law would have to provide for the sale of such apartments. Namely, the sale of the apartment is intended to be granted prior to the end of the period of 10 years, subject to the agreement of the agency, provided that the buyer pays the seller the difference, means only in different prices. And I ask the question, what if the buyer of the apartment or member of the rope family comes and gets such a disease that requires, among other things, climatic treatment and therefore there has to be a change in the place of residence, whether, for both health reasons and human reasons, it would have to give consent to sell the apartment without these special restrictions and without special payment. Because he doesn't want it by his own free will, it's caused by a higher power. Or let's say he gets into a situation where he loses his job in his place of residence, and at the same time, he opens up the possibility that he can get a job somewhere else, so he's not just losing his job, but he can't by having no income to repay credit, etc. that it can actually move for employment, resolution of existence, etc. So I'm just making an example of some of the examples that should be taken into account. It's about young families. It is important for young families a few things, and certainly among the most important are work, apartment, or roof over the head so that they can actually achieve those family and ine facilities and of course... And one more thing. [[You don't understand.]] I believe that this law should resolve the question when restricting or imposing obligations on local self-government units, whether customers, or users of rights, or fulfilling obligations, then it is at last necessary to expose one fact. Nothing is given away but someone else pays something, and in this respect, if the state prescribes this to the local self-government unit then the state must actually ensure that the difference is whether, through the fund, redistribution of funds or otherwise from the budget, will provide these units of local self-government to compensate for these funds, I don't know it, but in any case, some instrument would have to be, it can't fall exclusively to a local self-government unit because in such a situation we will actually be in a position that some of these units will be in an unequal position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86582	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86583	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Vice-President Arlovic said in his presentation: The burden of increasing the price of apartments will be borne by units of local self-government. That's not true. That's the wrong quote. The amendments to Article 6 increase the burden of land planning costs of units of local self-government will bear the APN and return the unit of local self-government to a certain amount resulting from this increase. This is what the provisions of Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86584	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86585	Injury 209 related to 214. Rules of Procedure. Look, I didn't say that the increased price would be borne by units of local self-government, but also units of local self-government, which is the expression verbis written... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86586	You said here you speak for yourself and the unit of local self-government, but the distinguished representative Shirac referred only to this and the units of local self-government. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, but since we're colleagues, I won't give a warning. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the HDZ gentlemen you're impressing me again. You're doing a wonderful job. I remember your election campaign when you said there was nothing wrong with that POS, that the prices were too high, that the apartments were too expensive, that you would do it all better, much cheaper and cheaper anyway and cheaper. But here's what you're doing more praise this POS than we are today, and we've made more apartments than you. You practically made Kutin and Long Village, it means 50 apartments, and what else you did you actually inherited from us, finished, done and opened. And someone had to finish if the contracts were signed, then someone had to do the obligation. And you did it and cut the tape. It's lucky we didn't leave the HNS and cut off the tape like we had to do on Mura when you were afraid of Slovenians. ... I'm talking about opening up, sir. I'm talking about opening up these buildings that we've arranged, designed and arranged, and then you've finished them. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And opened. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] However, there is only one thing I want to remind you of what citizens are interested in, especially young citizens in Croatia. They're interested in two things in the front row. It's that they have a job and the other thing is they have a roof over their heads. It's basic so we can go into some normal life at all. We tried to make some kind of model and made a model that would allow young people just such conditions and I don't want to say at all who made more, who made less than I care why you don't work. Why don't you do at least the same intensity as before. I know you ministers are laughing, but the same thing was about the highway. Well, here's to this mandate, I hope it's over 37 kilometers. I hope that you do not work at the same pace, and I would like that you do not work at the same pace and that these apartments that young people expect to be built and not only built and arranged that they can, the simplest they can come, is the main problem that we are taking advantage of in any case the construction mafia, and we favour it in such a way that the state is doing nothing but literally trying nothing to bring down the price on the market and that this price of square apartment is now from 2,000 to 7,000 euros. If we're doing apartments with this intensity and we're doing 500 a year and a thousand apartments, it's almost nothing. If the needs on the market are known only in Zagreb 10 thousand a year, what about other cities, what about other municipalities, what about other counties at the end? And I'm not talking about how it's handled in smaller local environments that didn't even occur in mind to build POS, but it's all done by local entrepreneurs, and they're doing it in such a way that different land is being converted into building land, that in some of the houses alone, they tear down two houses and make a quad because there's no plan, we know how in the small environments, they're never going to be able to buy an apartment at a price like this, which you're going to be told in the election campaign that it's too big. I remember the Minister's election campaign very well and I remember that and exactly what I said at first was that POS was no good, that you POS would change, change, do better or even do something different because the price was too large. I remember that very well from the campaign. So I invite you to start at least at the pace that we used to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86588	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Luggage.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86589	So here are countless incorrect ones, and one of them, I quote, "We have arranged, designed and built, but we have opened." Which is true at all, and it's actually all wrong and here's only one of the evidence. The number of apartments you built, although the government, was not so big that it would now be exceeded this one, but those that were built were unusable because the tiles were being scrapped, because the doors couldn't open, because the apartments were sneezing, and you forgot to say that when you contracted apartments for which there was no project documentation, for which there was no land prepared, for which most of them were contracted by your party boss and the execution and you forgot to say both apartment insurance and housing insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86590	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, a 5-minute debate, a distinguished representative, Vice-President of the House Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86591	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is obvious that, regardless of all the discussions that have been conducted here today, the main criterion of success in implementing the POS project is how many people have had the opportunity to even apply for surveys and get the right to buy an apartment and who was able to buy it, start using it and move in. And as much as we compete here in who made it more or less, the confirmation is always about how many people could use it and how many people had the chance to buy POS's apartment in the first place, and it's obvious that in the term of this government, three and a half years now, such apartments have been designed and built 50. So everything else if we delete everything that was designed in different stages of performance or not ratio is about a thousand to 50, and these are rows of size, not to mention those over 10,000 600 apartments that the government passed led to different stages of realization. But only what was made is a thousand to 50 as well as a colleague of Chirac here said 900 and something, so between 900 and 1,000 and 50. It's those apartments people can use and that's the difference. Secondly, we would have nothing to discuss here, or to bid on each other and to bid on who was implementing it and how successful it was in the realization of the POS project that the POS project was not designed and that the POS project did not begin to be implemented during the last government, that we did not design it and that it was obviously so popular among the citizens of which only in Zagreb 18 thousand families applied for the possibility of buying an apartment from the project, that even this government failed to eliminate it with its efforts. Over the back and heads of the citizens, first of all young families, there are party accounts and accounts between personal vanitys. So I think it would be better to concentrate on what is really to be done and no matter who has come up with something, which is to be realized. Today, however, we are seven months before the election and these changes that we are talking about today or any other change will not result. Therefore, if in 3 and a half years it was built and 50 apartments were completed, it was agreed, etc. This government, in seven months before the election, is based on this or any other law, nothing important will happen. However, this debate and these proposed amendments to the law have brought to light another moment which I would like to underline here on behalf of the club and bring public attention, and this has been seen and proved to be inadmissible by the executive authorities. In the absence of arguments, Minister Matulovic-Dropulic allowed the difference in the position and diversity of the arguments to threaten the criminal application for a publicly-prosecuted position of Parliamentarian Kosisa Cicin-Sain. This is not a party matter, this is a matter of relations between the executive and the legislative authority. The executive power is here at the will of this Parliament, the executive power is responding to this Parliament, the executive power is accounting for this Parliament and Minister Matulović-Dropulić as a member of this executive authority is here to answer to this Parliament for his policy and for his actions, not to threaten Parliament when perhaps someone from Parliament disagrees with its assessment of the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86592	I'm asking you to get back on the subject. It's not a subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86593	So it's a direct topic of this situation. So, when there are no arguments, then the fundamental institutional structure of this state is at stake, which is the relationship between Parliament and the executive authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86594	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86595	And such behaviour disqualifies Minister Dropulic from doing business in the executive government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86596	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86597	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! Mrs. MP and Vice-President of the Parliament, Pusic, presented the following in her presentation. This government only made 50 apartments. Dear lady and fellow MPs, that is an inaccuracies all the way. The last government at the same time made 906 apartments and this government made 2,000 963 apartments, at the same time. Secondly, it's no longer a correction to this false allegation. But it's really not right for you to insult an attending minister. [[/Intruder: What?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86598	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Luggage.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86599	Well, my colleague Shirac just fixed one. And the other one says... Madam Vice President, these changes will not bring any results. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Completely incorrect, because these changes will prevent her boss Cacic from negotiating designs, performances, insurance but not repairs later than leaving her to the future government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86600	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, five minutes of debate, distinguished representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86601	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! Before I state the position of us representatives from the Croatian Democratic Community club, I must express my surprise about the position of SDP Representatives Club, which my colleague Antesic, told us, from this pay phone, when he said that the adoption of this law is a step backwards in relation to the practice so far. I also agree that each of us can say whatever he wants in this House. That's the right of opinion. That's the right of attitude. But then it should be made clear to the Croatian public that you are advocating this attitude and advocating that units of local self-government charge for a public contribution to the construction of apartments, in fact you are proposing solutions that are against the interests of the people for whom this law addresses the issues of making them an apartment... morale. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This price, then, is not enough in any case, and we would still have to pay more money. So you don't want to help your citizens. I do not, of course, agree with Vice-President Pusic's position, however, are her rights. She has the right to state that, but I don't think it's correct to give qualifications to anyone who's inappropriate or present to a minister. It's final. This law proposes to regulate and improve the construction of apartments through the POS Programme, which is the main objective of meeting the housing needs of a part of the citizens who cannot get an apartment in market terms and resolve their housing issue. That's how we appreciate this bill. I stress that this law addresses five important issues. That's the first one. Returns to the local self-government unit for increased land purchase costs because the land price has increased. The level of sales price is limited to 980 euros per metre square as we consider appropriate. But that doesn't mean that that price has to be that much. It's the highest price. It allows APN to buy land, manage infrastructure. But it limits the price of the infrastructure and the land price to 280 euros per metre square. Finally, it is prohibited to sell on a 10-year-old basis to purchase apartments in order to prevent irregular earnings on these new apartments. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86602	Thank you. And finally, Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic, Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I must say, I'm terribly surprised by the repeated repetition of tens of thousands of apartments prepared for construction. And we're only 50 prepared. That's why we'll prepare and deliver to you by the facilities that we got when we got here and started working. It was mostly pre-contracts, mostly without permission, no project documentation, even somewhere without plans. So you'll see how it was prepared. And I'm asking you, what would happen if we hadn't moved on with those works, and the builders had contracts and signed contracts? Not on our side, but on the part of former Assistant Minister Cacic. There's one more thing I have to say here, and that's a speech about the whole time being told that this law or else it suits the construction mafia, is it not to crash the price of apartments? The price of apartments cannot be destroyed as long as there are needs and while there are buyers of these apartments. We cannot pass the law, neither you before, nor our government, nor the future government can pass a law that will say that the price of the apartment on the market can amount to so much and so much. If someone thinks it can be brought, you know what'll happen after that when it's done? What's gonna happen? It's going to happen that apartments aren't going to be built. And even those who take credit, who can get credit, won't have anything to buy because of it, of course, if it's below. It happens to us that we are now launching public procurements for the performance of works that people of 700 euros per square will no longer be built. That's right and there are cases like that. And we have to call a public tender two or three times in order to find a performer who would work for that price. Therefore, they are found in the end, but you must know that the price of land in Croatia cannot be limited because everyone sells the land as it is at market price. The price of municipal infrastructure cannot be limited because the construction of municipal infrastructure depends on where it is built, what lengths it is, what infrastructure is built and the like. Therefore, it is a very difficult task. But what is still necessary to say when it was spoken of by Mr Kapraljevic about it and about re-purposeing the land of what is agricultural land, what is important to say today cannot be re-purposed because in 1.1.2004, 113 spatial plans were made, today they are 531. So the spatial plans were made, then of course there was probably a re-use when you didn't have anything. Now you have plans and therefore there is nothing to it and I say, look at Istria, for example, where agricultural land is refurbished into construction land. Well, let me see. I would ask you nicely to make one analysis of each spatial plan before the principles of these stories and to see what happened compared to what happened in 2002 when everyone was making spatial plans for the county. Well, I'm asking you nicely, we've done the analysis. So you know everything. And one more thing. The Sesvets are not about the park forest because the park forest knows what is, has its definition, exactly and according to the Nature Protection Act. It's about the land where the forest exists. But why are they even going to build there? Because the survey was conducted and over 6 thousand people or 8 thousand people reported wanting apartments in the Councils. Therefore, it can be very difficult for Mr. Rados to have people settle in the world and have problems with it, but the fact is that people want to live there. And therefore, if people there want to live, if we couldn't get the land that was intended for POS construction, then the fact that we simply had to find another land is also the same. And it's not true that I said that the municipal infrastructure was finished there in one single word because today I say that the municipal infrastructure is not finished there. Therefore, I think we should continue with this programme, that this law will allow us to buy other land and start building these apartments at other locations. We'll never build apartments again where they're not needed as it was present and when we got "x" apartments that couldn't be sold. Therefore, we will do everything that our people can buy as many apartments as possible and as I have said, we will also consider these suggestions around mountainous and mountainous areas and areas that are under special national care. And as for yesterday, I said everything I said in a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86604	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. And a break until 3:00. The vote is at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-30-0.u86605	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Social Encouragement Building. I am voting on the following conclusion: the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Incentives is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. I'm voting that conclusion. To vote. The result? With 79 for, 14 abstentions and 2 against the proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue to work on the 25th session of the Croatian Parliament that I am opening. I warmly welcome you all. In order to facilitate benching, you are given a consolidated agenda to continue the 25th session. Before continuing the session, in view of the request of the defendant, Branimir Glavas, I undertake the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr Damir Sesvecan, based on the provision of Article 46(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall immediately convene the meeting of the Mandate-Immunity Commission in order to discuss and decide whether or not the Croatian Parliament should decide again and answer the question of whether it is necessary to discuss and give consent, i.e. approval to determine the detention of a specified and implemented representative, Branimir Glavas. So, Mr. President, call this session and discuss this issue and give an answer, a motion to the Parliament. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
