ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87100	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representative, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Here is with pleasure in the name of the Government, on behalf of the Ministry I am headed by, I would like to inform you about how and how we implemented the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in the past 2006. I would like to say at first because there is no report on this, but I think it is important for you MPs and MPs that in the meantime we have also received an audit report on the work of our ministry and that the third year in a row is unconditionally, therefore, without any objection that I believe it can help you in the debate, since the audit report always talks about how the law was implemented or how the budget was implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to start by pointing out one piece of information that I believe will also be important to you that from 2003 to 2007 we have increased the total funds for the implementation of the law or for the care of Croatian defenders by approximately two billion and two hundred million kuna. I think that in this debate it is necessary to point out, I believe that you will talk about it, too, what I can say from my three-year experience is that the care of Croatian defenders cannot, of course, be concerned only by one ministry. Of course, the Ministry of Croatian Defence is parent, but most importantly, it is quite certain that care for Croatian defenders and their everyday lives, but of course the lives of their families must be the concern of the entire society. I don't have any pathetic words. There must be concern for every ministry, local administration and self-government, and I would like to say that perhaps the most difficulties in law enforcement were precisely the provisions of laws which determine the powers of, for example, local administrations that were not implemented in one part of the law. Simply, here is, for example, the assignment of land to build apartments simply because some units of local administrations did not have or could not find it, it is now for discussion, and then, of course, it is also a question of law enforcement. I believe that these things will improve in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe you've studied this extensive report. I will highlight only what seems most important to us in the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. So I'll start here from retirement rights. In 2006, the pension amounted to an average of 42 thousand 465 users. The temporary unemployment fee was used by an average of 5 000 607 users, and the salary fee was used by 323 users during their employment. Then in 2006 we paid three billion 398 million 448 thousand and 294 kuna in pension income. During this reporting period, so last year, the status of the insurance company of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance based on the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War reached a total of 19,000 464 people. A total of more than 185 million kuna has been spent for insurance or health insurance rights. What I think is particularly important for last year is the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. You saw in this report that the value of the assets on 31 December last year was 2 billion 945 million and 131 thousand 422 kuna. What I am pleased to point out is that in the meantime, the value of this asset has increased and it is currently worth just over two billion 945 million at the end of the year is now more than three billion and 712 kuna. I think it is this information that shows all the justification for the fact that we first established the Croatian Defence Fund and secondly, since I am the head and the board of directors, by the function of the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund, that we did well at that time, that the government, as you know in 2005, transferred the same percentage of the shares of the INA to 7% of HT shares. On the basis of the Croatian Defence Fund, of course, you know that we have also drawn up a Law on a scholarship fund and the Foundation Act and here is the report on this. In fact, in last year's scholarship fund really started working in its fullness, and based on that work we have also called for a competition and I am pleased to say that the first scholarships from that fund have been granted. So, 2872 scholarships and that 1916 scholarship for high school students, 930 for students and 26 participation of part of the cost of tuition for after graduation. In the past year, the right to free textbooks was also achieved by 17343 users for which nearly 18 million kunas were spent. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, one of the most important projects we have been working on in the past year is the employment project of Croatian defenders and children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders. I can say that, since the government has accepted the employment programme for four years that we are currently under way and a new employment plan for the next four years, which I believe will soon also be accepted by the Croatian government. For employment, we increase funding year after year. That's what happened last year. So, a total of nearly 35 million kunas spent on employment, i.e. for our employment programmes for Croatian defenders and children, I repeat the deaths, prisoners and missing. One of the most important measures thus proved to be in the realisation of these measures is certainly a measure to establish Croatian defenders' cooperatives. So far more than 120 cooperatives have been established. 61 here to this day, with the support of the Croatian Defence Ministry, we expect the implementation of this programme for this year. Based on this year's public tender, we will grant support for another 40 cooperatives. So it's going to be 101. I would like to point out that, in general, we have spent around 100 million kuna on employment programmes so far, so far, we have spent around 100 million kuna on several measures that deliver good results. So far, or in the last year, 33 defence cooperatives have been supported in the reporting year. We have, by the end of the last reporting period, employed, or secured employment for about 5,000 defenders. Today it's more than 7,000. I think that these programmes should continue to be given special and great attention because they help, of course, Croatian defenders to live with dignity and dignity from their work and greatly helps Croatian defenders who have problems with post-rheumatic stress disorder. This has proved in several cases, and I think that is why this cooperative, but also all other forms, i.e. employment measures, deserve great attention and I believe that you will support us in making a budget for next year, to allocate even more funding for employment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to remind you that in the past year we have successfully achieved a housing programme. I'm saying this because, for example, we've actually completed the whole project of taking care of 100 percent of the first group's disabled. Here I am before the end of last year we assigned two houses specially built and adapted to defenders in Split and then one in Rijeka. The total amount of funds spent on housing in 2006 amounts to more than 195 million kuna. Of which for housing loans almost 72 million kuna and the rest for building apartments, buying apartments for the victims of the Homeland War, building houses and conducting the adjustment process for Croatian wartime military disabled. In this reporting period, 937 requirements were resolved in the last year, of which 457 for the award of apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia with the right of purchase, and 480 were resolved by granting a housing loan. What I want to say is what I think is also important is that at this point we are building 369 apartments for Croatian military disabled people and families of the dead, imprisoned and missing who are categories that are entitled to care through the Ministry of Croatian Defence on all current laws and under this law. We are building apartments in Klanjc, Metković, Netretić, Vukovar, Benkovac, Rijeka, Valovo, Virovitica, Kaštel Novi, Solin and Trogir. From that here in Trogir 60, in Kaštel 90 etc. that I don't list in cities, and what's also important is that we prepare for the construction of 381 apartments. So they are in preparation in Drnis, Knin, also in Vukovar, Makarska, Imotski, Dugopol, Podstrana, Dubrovnik, Cetingrad, Slunj, Pločama, Crikvenica and Ogulin. And on this occasion, I'd just like to say a few words about the fact that in both the past and the past years, we've had a big problem with removing the gaps in apartments that some started to build since '98, '99. A year. In many of these apartments, many of these buildings have found, therefore, that work is done by the Ministry of Civil Engineering, their experts, people who are in charge of many disadvantages, many of the shortcomings that are not imagined for any new apartment that is built for anyone, let alone for Croatian wartime people with disabilities or for mothers and fathers of dead defenders or widows, or children of dead defenders or families of Croatian defenders who are still on the list of prisoners and missing. So I also want to appeal from this booth to all those who have taken the obligation to build these apartments and those who are now being built and those who are preparing to realize that it is a job which, of course, according to all the rules of the profession, must be carried out in accordance with the regulations for anyone, and in particular, it is unacceptable that in dwellings that are made for wartime military people who have to hand over the keys and then we find that they are, for example, The pipes are wrongly connected or there's no half of the tiles or there's no half of the parquet. It happened, for example, in a building in Zagreb that we taught last summer 90 apartments that because of this long-term construction, then storage, we eventually had to change the complete carpentry in those 90 apartments, which caused additional costs, and not to say that those apartments must be kept so that someone would not break in, that we would pay all of this and that it was all an additional cost for the state budget. We also, as you know through the new law, that is, the law that entered the Institute of Single Rights at the beginning of 2005, means monetary assistance for Croatian defenders who are in a particularly difficult social situation. We singled out 2 million 676 thousand last year and a few more kunas. However, what I would like to warn you is that now the Croatian Defence Foundation is also functioning, since we have more than 25 million kuna in the Foundation and that I will believe in particularly difficult cases that cannot be solved through this law, or which, because this one-time fee is, of course, limited that it will be able to be resolved right through funds from the Foundation in difficult cases when there is a serious illness that requires an operation, an operation abroad, etc., etc. Of course, according to strictly certain criteria. We also spent medical or physical rehabilitation for Croatian wartime wartime disabled, for the first time since 2004, in which we spent more than a million and a half kuna. With the programme of treatment of 100% disabled first group, which I especially wish to highlight, we also responded to the requirements of the very category of disabled people for support in additional treatment in the hypobaric chamber in Split. For this we had to arrange special apartments, but we provided this treatment which shows very, very good results and for which there is a great interest. So now we are going to adapt new apartments, because there must be persons with disabilities and members of their families. In the past year, ladies and gentlemen, the Government also reprogrammed loans at the request of Croatian defenders, i.e. the terms of credit granted by the Croatian Employment Institute in '99 and 2000. We also reprogrammed the Croatian Bank's loans for reconstruction and development over the previous years. And I believe that in the future, we're actually going to have to think eventually about the write-off of these loans. It is, in fact, the fact that Croatian defenders over a period of time have become additionally burdened, and this burden obviously cannot endure. I would also like to inform you that in the last year we bought 141 cars to the Croatian military disabled 100% of the first group, so to those who had the right to do so before but who did not. In total, we have bought so far means with this 141 car in the last year a total of 333 cars for Croatian military disabled first group. I remind you that we have also resolved the status of a nurse, who now has the right to health insurance, the right to pension insurance and have the right to be sick if she gets sick, which is understandable because of the difficulties they have been living with, they are literally staying at the service for literally 24 hours. What I would also like to underline in some way is that in the past year and this year we have paid back the Croatian defenders according to the 2001 law. This total means up to this year 255 million kuna and in this year, 2007, we have provided an additional 187 million kuna. The debt for 2003 and early 2004 was paid in March this year. And here, that's how we ended up, that's how we solved that problem. And I repeat, for previous periods, we paid for 2001 and 2002 in the first year, i.e. 2006. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say something about the most painful problem we face in our work, the most painful humanitarian problem today in Croatia, and this is about looking for captured and missing Croatian defenders and civilians on the list, on this truly sad list, meaning '91. A year. We still have, and we're still looking for a thousand 116 Croatian defenders and civilians. In the last year, we reacted to, as well as the years before, we really responded to every tip, whether anonymous, either in any other way, by letter or, but I repeat to every anonymous one and we did more than 260 test digs at different locations, means anywhere where there were any indications or any news of the possibility that there was a place of mass or individual tomb and everywhere we went, as we do today, I believe during today's debate that I will be able to inform you of some new news as we are doing this moment in the area of two counties, Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijemska and we have even one very serious indication that another possible location could be found in the mass tomb of Ovcara, but we are examining it right now. I also want to inform you that we are in the budget for this year, it has nothing to do with last year's report right now, but I think it's useful for you to know that we've also provided money to build a monument in a hospital circle in Vukovar with a memory of a Vukovar victim. More than 2 million and 700 thousand kuna were spent at the maintenance, editing and guarding of the Vukovar Memorial Cemetery, and here is information for you that this cemetery was visited by 246 thousand 559 visitors last year. Unfortunately, according to our records last year, 1304 Croatian wartime wartime invalid and Homeland War defenders died, so the defender. Under the new law they have, they all have the right to a paid burial and military honor whenever they ask for it. As for the psychosocial program, you know that we've brought a new psychosocial program since 2005, that we've established our PSP centers in a new way, means psychological assistance centres that work very well, where they're employees. In the past year we had a total of 41 thousand 137 interventions and for Croatian defenders of course, and for members of their families. The health section of the national programme was implemented at regional centres for psychotraum in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Osijek and for these programmes we spent around 10 million kuna. I can say that in the last year and well, we worked very well with the Associations of Homeland War, that we in a partnership relationship, since we worked together also the new Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and the Law on the Fund of Croatian Defences and the Law on the Fund for Scholarship and Foundation Act and the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund and the Management Board of the Foundation Board of Croatian Defence make up the majority of the decisions that two funds and foundations have made, I would say their decisions, no one can revote them and no one can nor propose a decision that would not be in line with their positions. And more information that we have been in the past year, that is, the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the area of the rights of the victims, i.e. members of the Croatian Defence Council, has been adopted, and that, of course, according to the law I say last year, it is working today and I think that it is being successfully implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out in the end the report by the Ombudsman, who I believe will also be discussed soon, where Mr. Public Attorney when he talks about the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, says that by adopting the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, I quote from the Homeland War and members of their families in 2004 and the implementing rules and the new organisation of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the number of complaints relating to the work of the competent authorities in achieving and protecting the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War has been significantly reduced. During the whole 2006 there were 20 complaints and these were mainly on the fact that their cases were in administrative court and that they were not resolved or resolved, i.e. to be resolved too slowly, etc. and there were 38 of them in the previous year 2005. And it is also said that the introduction of continued work by the able teams of the Ministry of Reception and Answers and Phones, on the requests of the parties, by resolving individual requirements within a reasonable period, has dropped the number of complaints to the occupier and I think you should consider the same when assessing this report and, of course, through all that we have done or what we have done. Thank you very much and here I ask that the debate be truly about what is in the report and what we must all continue to do together in the future for Croatian defenders and members of their families who are truly the most responsible for free, independent and independent Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87101	Thank you. The Committee on War Veterans, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87102	Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Council of War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 27th session held on 18 April 2007 a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2006, which was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 22 March 2007. Committee meetings were attended by representatives of defenders' associations and victims from the Homeland War. Total resources for comprehensive care for participants and victims of the Homeland War, according to rapporteur representatives, year-on-year recorded continued growth and amounted to slightly less than 4.8 billion kuna in 2006. In the reporting period in law enforcement, the following should be singled out. The adoption of the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the Law on the Foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, the conclusion of a contract between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the field of the rights of participants in war in Bosnia and Herzegovina who were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families to resolve their pension and health rights. Making a decision to amend the terms of the loan to encourage employment and self-employment approved by the Croatian Employment Service during 1999 and 2000, which changes and improves the conditions of payment of credit to Croatian defenders, credit users. The payment of the debt of the translated pensions for 2001 and 2002 amounting to 159 million kuna while the remaining debt of 187 million kuna for 2003 and the first half of 2004 is due this year, 2007 for which the funds in the state budget are secured. The problem of assigning personal cars to Croatian wartime wartime disableds to 100% of the first group, according to Article 60 of the Law. The intensive implementation of the professional training and employment programmes of Croatian defenders has been continued through cooperative development measures, promotion of entrepreneurial projects, lending, self-employment and vocational training. In the structure of the funds spent for the care of Croatian defenders and members of their families, the funds for pension and disability rights amounting to 3 billion and 398 million kuna or 71% of the total. The funds for permanent rights amounting to 763 million kuna or 16% of total assets, housing funds of 196 million kuna or 4% of total assets and health insurance funds of 185 million kuna or 3.8% of total assets. Among the funds spent in smaller amounts, funds for customs and tax reliefs amounting to HRK 96 million and employment funds amounting to HRK 42 million should be allocated. The debate, which followed, praised the comprehensiveness and thoroughness of the report, and expressed satisfaction with the continued increase in financial resources for the care of Croatian defenders and members of their families. The problems identified in the implementation of the law draws attention to intensifying the health protection of Croatian defenders, as they rightly establish the basis of the Health Insurance Act, but works with the most vulnerable category of the population. Adjustments to buildings and houses, i.e. to address accessibility to disabled persons, and to solve problems needed to resuscitate the houses of 100-percent Croatian military disabled persons of Group I, which are the result of poorly performed works. Addressing the problem of reducing money benefits in the amount of family pensions by 15%, which are received by family members of imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders and harmonising these benefits with the cost of living. Getting the status of volunteers from the Homeland War for those Croatian defenders who died before 15 January 1992 and do not have the necessary 100 days to defend the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia prescribed by the law. Acceleration of the work of first-degree and second-degree medical committees to obtain their findings and opinions based on solutions on status rights, given that there are cases of waiting for solutions for more than a year from the submission of applications. There is no analytical representation of the exercise of the rights of members of the Croatian Council by virtue of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the field of rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina who were members of the HVO and of their families, knowing that the law has been applied since 1 January 2006 and intensification of the stands in which the rights and the procedure for the exercise of rights under the law to interested defenders and members of their families would be clarified. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the following conclusion: it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87103	Thank you. Committee on Immigration, President-in-Office Zdenka Babić Petričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. At the 31st session held on 18th of this month this year, the immigration committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2006. The Committee discussed that report as an interested working body. The proposing representative presented to the members of the Committee as a regular report showing in this case the effects of the application of the new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and of members of their families who entered into force on 1 January 2005. The application of this Act gave rise to the following effects, the number of requests to increase the rights of Croatian defenders was increased, in 2007 the funds were provided in the state budget for care of Croatian defenders amounting to 4 billion and 900 million kuna, representing an increase of 11% compared to 2006, i.e. 496 million and 510 thousand kuna, which shows the stability of the system and continued care. The payment of the debt for the period 2001 and 2002 was made during 2006 amounting to 159 million kuna and for the period 2003 and 30 June 2004 amounting to 187 million kuna will be completed by the end of this year. The new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders has stabilised the rights of Croatian defenders. The new law introduces a number of improvements that are the most significant of them. A new legal institute of the lowest pension for the users of family old and disabled Croatian defenders from the Homeland War has been introduced, does not obsess over the death of a Croatian defender from the Homeland War who committed suicide as a result of a mental illness caused by participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. The deadline for submission of requests for the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid on the basis of a disease, the right to bury dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War with military honor at the expense of the state, the translation of defence rights based on the unconstitutional discriminatory provisions of the previous law, was created by a single register of Croatian defenders in 2005, the team achieved one of the basic preconditions of the Croatian Defence Fund, which at the end of 2005 had a value of more than 2 billion kuna, grew to 2 billion and 945 million kuna by 31 December 2006. In 2006, the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families was passed and a grant and trust fund was established. In 2006, conditions were laid down for the exercise of the right to the compensation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families from the funds of the foundation amounting to EUR 25 million. In July 2006, the government decided to amend the terms of credit to encourage employment and self-employment of authorised and realised funds of the Croatian Employment Institute during '99. and in 2000. In the period 2004 to 2006 the problem was solved for the award of Croatian military disabled private cars by 100 per cent. The status of carers with a disability of 100-percent I. groups of 427 who now exercise the right to sick and protection during the duration of the disease has been resolved. In 2006, the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on Cooperation in the Law of the Victims of War in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families, was adopted with regard to the resolution of their pension rights and health protection. After the debate was held on the proposal of the Committee president, the following conclusion was reached by the majority: a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2006 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87105	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87106	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts this Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families, and expresses its satisfaction with the thorough and correct report made by the Croatian Defence Ministry and describes all relevant items in the aid and enforcement of the legal norms adopted by the 2005 law. We can see through this report that the permanent monetary rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families and one-time law rights are described, housing, cars for 100% disabled first group, rights from pension and disability insurance, rights from health insurance, rights to free textbooks, summering of children of Croatian defenders, employment of Croatian defenders, customs and tax relief, exhumation and identification, burial of victims from the Homeland War, marking the place of mass graves, memorial cemetery of victims from the Homeland War, burial of Croatian defenders with military honors, a project of accessibility to persons with disabilities, a psychosocial programme, execution of judicial judgments, co-operation with associations from the Homeland War. This is the 18 items described through this report. The most important of them and the largest item stemming from pension and disability insurance rights is 3 billion and 398 thousand 448 kuna. Namely, there is one item that is also in the eyes, which is the execution of the powerful judgments which, which the Administrative Court adopted in 2006, amounted to 25 million kuna, which stems from previous years when the rights of Croatian defenders were abolished and abolished by certain solutions and decisions of the ministry at the time. In fact, this damage that was done to Croatian defenders at the time really should have put someone on personal charge, not to be paid today from the state budget and budget of the Ministry of Family and Defence and intergenerational solidarity. It is a damage that is done only by this in a material state, in a material amount shown, while that mental and moral is far greater and more extensive and will never be cured. Although this report on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which speaks of the second year of implementation of this Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families, and by the adoption of this new law and application of it from 1.1.2005, has stabilised the system of overall care for all categories of participants and victims of the Homeland War who in previous years have been significantly destroyed and huge damage has been done to those people who are the most responsible for the creation, defence and release of the Croatian homeland. It was unheard of and without concern for that population, and it was clearly compared with previous reports from previous years, and especially at a time of coalition government, it was clear what parameters they were then, what they were now. As the ministry worked then, as it does now. The clear indicators also talk about this from the findings of the state audit that discusses the unconditional assessment of the work of the Croatian Defence Ministry, the family of intergenerational solidarity. And it is also evident that this report is also based on concrete and thorough data on all categories and legal provisions, that during this time other than complaints at the Administrative Court i.e. There were no complaints about the work of the ministry. And therefore, the Ombudsman also praised the work of the Croatian Ministry of Defence in its report, which is evident from it, saying that long-term proceedings before the Administrative Court have been being dragged away since the previous years. So while we are already on the report, it speaks clearly about all the new moments that were applied in 2005 and 2006, and it speaks strictly about 2006. It's from him, you can read everything he's done in those times. And I think he is correct about the introduction of a new legal institute of the lowest pensions for the users of family, age or disability pensions of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. During the 2006 period, the Croatian Defence Register was created and it started to exercise rights from the Croatian Defence Fund in 2006, so that the value with the transfer of shares of 7% of INA and 7% of HT was from 2 billion and 109 million kuna, so that in 2006, the value of the fund would grow to 2 billion and 900, and now it is already over 3 and 700, over 3 billion and 700 million kuna. And every day it is on a steady rise and thus through the Foundation and the Croatian Defence Fund, as indicated in this report, has been assisted. Children are also scholarshipd and are assisted by those categories of Croatian defenders who are most in need of help, which are the most socially insecure. Here, these money is really spent correctly and it's based on the proper documentation and on all those who apply and meet certain conditions. The 2006 report concluded a contract between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in cooperation with the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families with regard to the resolution of their pension rights and health protection. And it is still ongoing, the regulation of their rights achieved, and this agreement is also the obligations of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry. This report came through what was seen in the employment of Croatian defenders and strictly through the measures that were encouraged, the establishment of Croatian defence cooperatives, the promotion of personal employment or through the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises, through employment measures for persons who would hire at least three Croatian defenders, and it is evident that 5 thousand defenders were taken care of and employed in 2006 through such encouraging measures which actually contributed to Croatian defenders finding themselves either through defence cooperatives or through the opening of crafts or businesses, or through a agricultural activity that a good part of them is engaged and engaged. We also have an apartment that was regulated through the ministry in 2006 with 480 loans and 457 apartments. This is certainly one large ratio of apartments built and built but also started in 2006 with construction and other apartments that will be completed in 2007 and dedicated to use as well as in 2008 until 2010. In fact, a number of units of local self-government have decided to join in caring for Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War and members of their families and have found locations and offered ministries to equip them, and communal infrastructure to further build on them apartments and take care of Croatian victims from the Homeland War. In fact, it's visible through a report on where these new locations are, we've heard that the minister has already announced all these locations as well as the figures that are, I wouldn't repeat them. In fact, we must share the satisfaction of the done, although we still have to work on it since a number of those seeking credit and also seeking individual locations for individual housing care through the loan and through land that local self-government should allocate. There are a lot of problems because units of local self-government are deafening and do not find solutions to help provide housing for Croatian defenders. We can say that the satisfaction of the Club of Representatives with such extensive, thorough and concrete presentations of everything that has been done for the needs of Croatian defenders and which stems from the clear unequivocal figures that speak of how the Croatian Ministry of Defence's budget has been increased from 2003 to 2006 from 3 billion and 421 thousand kuna to 4 billion and 789 million kuna in 2006 while already in 2007 it is even bigger and is actually higher by 11.21% than it was before. Therefore, it is clearly said that continuing concern and concern for Croatian defenders is taking place through the ministry as well as through the government. We can stress that the Ministry of Croatian Defence in 2006, that what I was saying about cooperatives, that 120 defence cooperatives were registered, that requests were still submitted, and that they were helped to establish these cooperatives, which are at the level of 150 thousand kuna, and in 2006. 33 cooperatives are... That's the kind of help. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They also did the fairs of their products and I was personally on one and convinced myself in Vukovar that it was a wonderful activity that Croatian defenders of beekeeping, fishing, agriculture, dry meat products and everything else began to do, so that they really found themselves in creation and production and should continue to promote their employment through these kinds. What a good part of the defense population is saying and what is the topic is, are centres for psycho-social assistance. They are set before our county centers as volunteering, which professionally works and it is evident that through these county centers there is psycho-social assistance to our injured defenders who have experienced post-traumatic stress syndrome in the Homeland War. But we can say that the city of Zagreb has not yet found the right space to accommodate a centre where there really are many users and the need is great given the number of defenders and residents. They would also appeal to them to find an opportunity to install a centre for the rehabilitation of defenders with post-traumatic stress syndrome as soon as possible. Here, I can only say in the end that I share personal satisfaction as well as the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives with this comprehensive concrete report, by increasing the resources and all the measures that have been adopted and used through this ministry to ensure that Croatian defenders, disabled and members of the families of the dead and dead actually experience their age with dignity, in order to live in a country that appreciates and recognises them and that through legal measures and financial means they are constantly concerned and cared for by them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87107	Thank you. For the club HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87108	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a comprehensive informative and exhaustive text that speaks about the government's efforts and, in particular, of our ministry on the implementation of the provisions of the Law on Croatian Defence and Family Members for the period from 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2006, whose total financial costs have been measured in the amount of nearly 4.8 billion kuna. This is a higher cost of law enforcement compared to 2005 when about 4,164 million kunas were spent on the same rights. About 3 billion 398 million kunas were spent on Croatian defenders' pension and disability rights during 2006. Overall, we can be satisfied with the scope and way of implementing the provisions... The law during 2006, especially in the realization of so-called the covert rights of HRV of which almost 42,000 are currently registered and classified in 10 groups depending on the established degree of disability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, despite the large financial costs of nearly 4.8 billion kunas of budget money, it remains unfortunately inadequate or incompletely solved individual significant problems of our defence population in connection with the implementation of this law, which I will point out in particular. We're starting with living care of Croatian defenders. The right to housing is normised by Articles 36 to 50 of the Law and by the Regulation on the housing of members of the family of the deadly victim, the prisoner or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War and... from the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All requests received until 30 November 2005 were included in the valid list of the order of the championship and 937 applications for the award of an apartment or loan of which 138 requests were resolved by the award of an apartment or a house owned by the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the order set out in the report period. The problem remains visible in the fact that the applicant with a lower disability rate of 20 or 30% of disability and they are also at the most very slow or in no way moving towards the top of the list because later and newly arrived applicants with a higher degree of disability, regardless of all other criteria, suppress those with a multi-annual waiting period at the bottom of the list. So the proposal of the HSLS Club would be that this element of waiting on the list would also in some way be honored and that it would not happen that these disabled people who have a lower degree of disability are not able to achieve their right in any way. Last year, they also escalated the problems of Croatian defenders with a certain degree of HRV, which 10 or more years ago, the Government of the Republic of Croatia granted the right to use an apartment with the right to purchase the apartment, whose former tenants were mostly members of the former Yugoslav People's Army who left the territory of the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War. In recent years, actions have been carried out in relation to these Croatian defenders on the basis of judicial decisions. The frustration of these defenders and members of their families who, without any fault of their own, have found themselves in great troubles are believed and you know huge. We are therefore convinced that the Republic of Croatia must find legal and physical opportunities, factual opportunities for an appropriate solution to housing problems, and in such cases by not leaving these families alone to fight legal battles in front of Croatian courts which did not cause or have financial resources. In addition to this problem, we are obliged to mention the extremely significant problems of several thousand Croatian defenders who have settled in the last ten years in areas of special state care, Obrovac, Benkovac, Knin, Korenica, Glina, Petrinja in houses or apartments exclusively owned by the Republic of Croatia. Legal grounds for these settlements were given to these defenders ten years ago in the form of temporary solutions on the use of assigned housing and there they founded their families. Until today, however, they have not received permanent solutions from the Government of the Republic of Croatia or legal basis or the possibility of obtaining permanent ownership rights on these residential buildings, although they are guaranteed and promised. And as far as we know, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the legal owner of these properties. And if you really come to any of the stands in these areas of special state care one of the really main topics or main topics will be precisely the insistence of these people to resolve their temporary status. These problems should also be added to solving the housing problems of a dozen families of Croatian defenders settled in a pulsar camp that has been living here since 1992 when they are as members of the MORH, active persons employed in the military... We hope that this problem can also be solved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That this problem between the MORH and Ms Kosor's Ministry is resolved as soon as possible because as the MORH is known to refuse to fulfil its commitments and this Ministry cannot accept these obligations. So I say it's very important that you, somehow, get rid of yourself and that these people don't live in conditions that are unworthy of one civil life. Something to say about pension and pension and disability insurance rights. In 2006, 42,000 465 Croatian defenders used the right to an age pension, disability pension, family pension, the lowest pension and the right to pay for rights acquired on the basis of the remaining work capacity. The lowest so-called. Retirement based on Article... 31 laws were used during 2006 by only 56 users in favour of the fact that these provisions are used very restrictively only for persons with the status of Croatian defender without or under-retirement from 60 years of age for women and 65 years of life for men. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] would be instructed to correct this age limit so that more Croatian defenders who have not achieved their status, are not employed, there are no other permanent incomes can gain those rights at an earlier age, let's say, women at 55 and men with 60 years of age. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During 2006, more than 30,000 people were given the right to a disability pension. The total payment was over one and a half billion kuna, and during 2005, 25 thousand 766 users, which is an apparent increase in that type of pension by almost 18% and an increase in cash payments by more than 20%. This increase in the number of persons with disabilities can be interpreted as a consequence of the increased interest of the members of the MUP of the Republic of Croatia and the MORH in the use of this type of pension as a way of solving their existential problems. This information we think at the club is talking to itself. The question is why employees of young people in the state administration system with the status of Croatian defenders decide to retire. We wonder if there are more acceptable community-friendly, cost-effective working opportunities and material security for these categories of Croatian defenders. We at the Club consider that because there is schooling, requalification, professional training and many other opportunities are better and more acceptable than sending a young Croatian defender to retirement. We consider the inadmissible awakening of demands for new retirements mostly young people with defensive status as a clear sign of the loss of state interest, the state authorities to maintain these categories of citizens in the system of temporary work experience especially in the system of our state administration. Furthermore, the alarming fact is that, as a leading diagnosis during 2006, it appears in almost 77... Cases of HRV status gain or 5 thousand 556 people are post-traumatic stress disorder, noting that in an additional 13% of the cases of PTSD occur as other secondary diagnosis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All other medical diagnosis is almost negligible. According to our available information, this trend continues in 2007. The results of the review of the disability assessment during 2006 show that 7 000 273 cases were audited and that the Commission did not agree in as many as two thousand 211 cases. Almost 30% with the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's assessment of the cause of disability, of which 470 cases show that the reported disease is not at all the result of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. These facts certainly deserve a deeper analysis. Consensus of professional positions or including other authorities of the state administration, in particular competent inspection services, in the analysis of individual cases. It is quite clear to us that one case is quite enough to actually throw one, throw a shadow at all those who rightly seek, who are truly disabled from those who are only in some illegal ways trying to be. At the end of last year, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia abolished Article 23 of the Law, which stipulated that children of the mortally injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War, children of the captured or missing Croatian defender and Croatian defender from the Homeland War, volunteers and children of volunteers from the Homeland War are directly enrolled in high schools under conditions to cross the points or classed threshold. That right in this academic year was used by 5713 students. After the Constitutional Court's decision, the ministry, in agreement with the competent authorities, made new, constitutionally harmonised and solutions, acceptable options, to help the children of Croatian defenders enrol in our higher education, which also supports the HSLS Club as he also felt it was good to abolish Article 53 of the Law. The Croatian Defence Fund made a decision to grant 2872 applicants early this year, although a total of 5910 people applied for a scholarship. According to our knowledge, the criteria for granting a scholarship were very strict, property censorship and the like, so we propose to comply with the actual needs of the applicant because the financial resources are provided to a sufficient extent for those purposes. At the beginning of last year, the Croatian Defence Fund made a decision on the notification of the shares of Croatian defenders, causing public dissatisfaction and protests in parts of the defence population and the Croatian public. In fact, the problems that arise can be summed up in our opinion in two groups. First. Unsuitable criteria for the score of time spent in the Homeland War for all Croatian defenders who are apparently equalized by members of the so-called the combat and non-combat sectors, as they are all given one point a day by war they either sat in offices and since 15 January '92. until April 30, '95. For years no matter what during that time period the members of the... I'm just starting with the action of Maslenica, Miljevački plato, Medak pocket, the action "Pokok", "Poko", "Pokok 2" on Velebit, the release of Dubrovnik's hinterland and elsewhere where they certainly suffered great victims. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second group is also unsuitable – administrative application of the definition of Croatian defender, which causes doubt and potentiates manipulations about the number and type of Croatian defenders, which is spoken of eloquently if we recall the content and reports of the first President of the Republic of Croatia Franjo Tuđman to this Assembly in '96. The year in which it points out that 356000 Croatian defenders have been registered by this time, and the current register of Croatian defenders includes as many as 489000 Croatian defenders. Indeed, the difference is drastic. Following this public book, the register of Croatian defenders makes our administration in our opinion completely unwarranted, secret book of the inaccessible wider Croatian defence population and the Croatian public, and makes defense cards almost worthless with plastics. And worst of all, the honorary status of Croatian defenders because of administrative failures in the MUP, the ministry and this, the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity as well as in the MORH happened to some people who certainly didn't deserve it. In response to the defence protests, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian Defence Ministers, Ms Kosor, founded ad hoc commission in the middle of last year to determine the situation and draft amendments to the criteria for the score of time spent in the Homeland War, which included state secretaries from several ministries as well as representatives of defence associations. This commission met on 8 June last year and reached several conclusions regarding the work of the Croatian Defence Fund... State Secretary Mr. Ivić or members of the Management Board of the Fund as well as Deputy Prime Ministers for adoption, and the most important points were the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Management Board of the Fund to all members... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the sector in time since 15 January '92. until April 30, '95. Two points, and those members... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] sectors that participated in both combat operations or operations planned at the level of the Croatian Army General Staff or the Command to assign one more point to ensure that these combat actions are combat-equated with ‘Bleak’ and ‘Storm’. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Members of the... The sector would remain one point a day, etc. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But unfortunately,... The clear and fair conclusions of the ad hoc established commission have not been made to amend the criteria for the score of time spent in the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One in the MUPU is the executive version of belonging to the combat, i.e. the combat and non-combat sectors. Given that all reasonable reasons remain for changing these criteria in line with the decisions of the ad hoc established commission, we advocate their amendment and full implementation of the other conclusions of the commission, I say, taken if I am not mistaken on 8 June of last year. The HSLS also advocates that the Croatian Defence Fund be a representative of all parts of the defence population, which has not been the case so far because there are no representatives of the tens of thousands of defenders from the first day of the Homeland War under the auspices of the then Ministry of the Interior. But regardless of the comments we have made, we continue to think that, that is, these reports will be supported because it is methodologically appropriate to the genre of reports convention and HSLS will give its vote that the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence in the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87109	Thank you. The club of representatives of the CNS respected representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87110	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As for the praise of this law enforcement, we have heard from the lady, the distinguished lady minister and the individual colleagues. However, I, as a defender and as an opposition, will try to point out some inconsistencies in this report and try to point out some of the illogicalities that are going through this report. However, to do so, man must deal with it. However, if I were a defender myself, I had made a little more effort, so I will try to point out these problems. First of all, it's unclear what it means is that a system of overall care has stabilized for all categories of victims of the Homeland War. Which means he's been destabilized so far, that, I don't understand that formulation. I think it's a political finding, not a 2006 report. It does not state that the extended deadline for the application for recognition of the status of Croatian wartime wartime disabled persons from the Homeland War was in line with the provisions of the law of Article 125 Croatian defender from the Homeland War could apply until 31 December 2005. The same is true of family members whose deceased died before the law came into force. That even the minister did not understand the problem is evident because of her statements at the 6th annual annual assembly of Croatian defenders suffering from the PTSD of Sibenik-Knin County. I quote: "The new Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their family, which entered into force on 1 January 2005, extended deadlines for the recognition of the status of Croatian wartime disabled persons from the Homeland War on the basis of the disease in general and on the basis of PTSD disease, and up to 10 years after the end of the Homeland War.". Allegedly 10 years of Article 123(1), point (8) refers to medical documentation rather than to the submission of applications. We can't have a disease. I again demand that Madam Secretary that PTSD's disease can't be limited to 10 years, 10 years, 11 years, or 12 years. The PTSD disease experienced in the American wars that they have problems with PTSD is possible 25 years after the war to come forward. And I'm asking you to make sure that this problem is solved in the new law in the future because we wouldn't have this many people on the PTSD who now suspect that they're going to get sick or something and run into, simply, hospitals. And these people are, in a way, humiliated by going to institutions that are not suitable for Croatian military disableds and volunteers and defenders. I think we need to settle this urgently so that the profession, the doctors, decide whether someone is sick, not the right and limit to years. I'm asking you to do it in advance. Because so far, I thought we'd solved it with this law. On the ground, however, Madam Minister, people will not take papers from defence ministries in Croatia. People who are late to hand over PTSD disease simply won't accept it in papers. So that part we have to regulate with the law to make it clear, that these people can't give up, that they can't flinch. And then we get into a situation where people still have suicides, problems, and we're just collecting money defenders for individual groups, and we're dragging them to a hospital, and so on. These are the problems that I, as a military commander and defender, daily and I myself have such enquiries and help these people resolve their status. I'm more ashamed to go to the Defense Department to ask for those people's help. I'm really a little boring about it. But it's just such a situation that people don't know that we should work with them anymore, that we should inform people through the media more about some of the things they have rights, how they do it. This leads them astray that they expect someone to send their rights to their house or so. I think we're just gonna have to improve that even more. I'm not saying this ministry didn't work. It's work, it's gotta be a confession. But not enough and I think we need more. Especially since we've increased the budget by 600 million kuna. And I'd expect much greater results then than such a large financial injection. Furthermore, the assumption that the translation of defence rights was abolished on the basis of unconstitutional discriminatory provisions of the law has nothing to do with the period covered by the report. The translation of the law was suspended by the Law of the "National Journal" 48/04, i.e. This report is for 2006 and not for 2004. The creation of a unilateral register and the establishment of a Croatian Defence Fund is not a novelty of this government or of this law. We know that the previous government and previous assembly of the Parliament with Mr Pavl Kalinic, Pero Lovrić and others who have put forth their efforts for this Fund have presented it, and we have continued it. I think it's continuity regardless of the government and we should all be proud of it together if we've done something positive. So we can't prescribe to ourselves right now in the 2006 report that we only did something in that time. As far as the register is concerned. I'm looking again and I'm going to ask for it as long as I'm able to do something like that so that the number of lawyers, the number of 500,000 defenders, is public and that finally knows and see who strayed on the list of defenders, because we know that the number of 370,000 defenders when it was announced that we were horrified, there was a cry. Now there's 500 grand, so in two years, maybe we'll get 700 grand. I don't think there's any end to it. We're going to have to make some clear criteria all together about getting along with it once and for all and increasing those defenders. Well, if we had, I'd repeat so many defenders I think the war would be over in three months. Okay, well, we know that counsels have been changing over the years in units. But we also know all the war commanders that we've always had a problem, and to cover the ground that we've always lacked people, that we've always had pressure on defense offices, etc. I just can't agree with the number of 500 grand being accepted and that we just go over it without trying to make sure that part is regulated and corrected in some way. Next, as far as this score is concerned. Gentlemen, Madam Minister, I've got defenders who have eight points for the '90s. year and '91. until 5 months. Those defenders themselves tell me they're ashamed of having eight points a day at that time, and during the time when they were really at war, they had one point a day. The defenders themselves who got that privilege, they're ashamed and they're complaining about it. I never will, so you know what. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, I repeat this for the sixth time in this House, the war, the Homeland War has lasted since '91. '95. A year. Where do we score for the '90s? By the 5th month of '91. And for '96. A year? I think that part will be very easy to solve. There will be someone or some association, I've already received information that some associations will sue the Constitutional Court that part, and I think it'll fall into the water, so we'll have trouble redistributing points again, and we really don't need that. I don't know what this is about. I can't figure it out. The problem of professional training and employment of unemployed Croatian defenders, the project of accessibility of cooperation with associations from the Homeland War, the summering of children of Croatian defenders of weaker property status, the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War, as well as the Government's decision to amend the terms of credit to encourage employment and self-employment should be special points since they are not part of the law. Describing what has been done, the ministry should further explain that the end of the Mayan Hablak-Panic affair is in connection with measure 3, and whether embezzled budget funds have been recovered. With regard to psychological assistance, asset 6, the report highlights a new national programme of psychosocial health assistance to the victims of the Homeland War. However, neither the centres for psychosocial assistance nor the regional centres for psychotraum are new to this government. The confusing fact is that the report on the implementation of the law highlights the government's programme, and there is no mention of the legal obligation to set up district units of the ministry in all counties and the City of Zagreb. Article 122 of page 5, as the report states that 41,133, 7 professional interventions were carried out in 2006, it should be explained why the ministry did not have permanent employees at the end of the second year of law enforcement in nine county centres, i.e. as it educates employees, since no work experience was sought in the competition. In the final note of the National Psychological and Health Assistance Programme to participants and victims of the Homeland War, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, page 23, states that it is fully in line with the new Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War, which entered into force on 1 January 2006, where the regional units of the ministry are. If we know that 9 units haven't been admitted into a permanent working relationship, I'll point out again. Ten days ago in Zadar, one of our teammates, I was in Zagreb, but my boys were raising money downstairs, dragged him into a psych ward, raised money for his family, his wife and children. I think these psychosocial assistance centres should, especially for emergency interventions, which we already have in previous reports, and there have been agreements that we're going to do a little more to make these people available so that these cases don't happen, he's also had an attempt to spill gasoline and burn, etc. These are terrible traumas not only to one man but to those families, all of our colleagues who have fought with him, they are to all of us traumas. For me now that I'm talking about it, it's not all the same to me and you get calls every day, the church gets out of a thousand kunas, a supply of 1600, some get less. These people just feel rejected, can't get a job. I just don't know how, in which way, why don't we try it I'm already Mrs. Minister on many occasions speaking. In America it's PTSD trying to treat what we've tried ourselves with... But they train people, they train them to be beekeepers, to be gardeners, to deal with fishing, anything else, and then through state grants to those people, but not as a pension and help, so the problem is, we have to do more, I think we're slowed down here. [[You don't understand.]] Now we've got funds in the budget much bigger, I think this year since the funds are increased, we should go much faster, much more professional and much wider. Teams should be established in all counties that will be able to do the part and who will be able to deal with these people. I work only he saves the sick from PTSD, no small pensions, no 2,000 kunas, it destroys it and then he gives himself away to alcohol or drugs and these people destroy their family, their environment, but most of themselves. I think the program, we don't need to be smart, and we just need to watch what people who have already been through these experiences do, and we need to look for their help to educate us, if we need to bring in experts from America, pay for it, the state has to find the means to do it, and I think we can do a lot more. I wanted a lot of things, but I can see that I'm blinking, I haven't been able to, I'm going to try and ask the Ministry questions and warn you about these questions that I still think I can do better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87111	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations, first respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87112	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, so here I will correct my colleague's incorrect claim and quote that the report has stabilised the system of overall concern, that this is a political assessment. I'm telling him about this report clearly, now I'm going to tell him again. This is not a political assessment but was indeed a system of collapse, so you have 25 million and 995 thousand kuna on the first page of the execution of powerful judicial verdicts, which is how many of the judgments that came from 2001, 2002 and 2003, which came at the expense of 2006 and with the power of judgments, so Croatian defenders were suspended for their acquired rights under your former coalition authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87113	Second correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87114	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who said the translations were lifted. No, they're not suspended, but the translation isn't started at all. According to the provisions of Articles 147 to 158, it was an obligation to conduct translation of both the Ministry itself and the Croatian Pension Insurance Office within three years. Here it is now April, with these translations not even started, and so by the end of the year there are only seven months left.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87115	Third correction, honourable representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Kurtov went out for a pay phone and he really wanted to make this report look bad, actually work bad. So he said he repeated six times that the war lasted until the 95th year under the Constitution. So I don't know that the Constitution determines the duration of the war. So when he said that, then he saw the other things he stated, that they were simply not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87117	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Kurt's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87118	A colleague in the Constitution clearly states that the Homeland War has lasted since '91. '95. A year. If you don't know that, that's your problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87119	Bozica Šolić, a respected representative, corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87120	Thank you very much. Here's a respected colleague said in his debate that the government credited you and the ministry with all the credit for the rights of defenders, however, he also stated that in the past term Mr Kalinic worked with his group on the Law on the Defence Fund and that the Law was passed. Well, look, buddy, it's absolutely not true. This Law on the Defence Fund was passed in the 10th month of 2003, which you used by the Government as pre-election, in the election campaign, but unfortunately never that Law on the Defence Fund co-existed and that the Government was in the interest of respecting and that elections for the rights of defenders would surely have been passed at the beginning of its term as did today's Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87121	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I came forward after these two shows on behalf of the clubs to explain some things and to believe that I would allow the debate that will follow to be in line with these facts. Here is Mr. Kurtov mentioned among other things the register, namely the number of Croatian defenders. It's a subject that's very often troubled, I'd say sometimes and politicized, so I'd like to add some more facts. Of course it has nothing to do with this report we filed, because the report doesn't talk about it, but here I think this is a real opportunity to present that data. In fact, we were representing the register of Croatian defenders in 2005, of course 3 ministers participated in the presentation, meaning Minister of Defence, Home Affairs and Minister of Defence, or Minister of Croatian Defence. We have clearly shown how, first of all, we have reached the register and secondly how things have happened, i.e. how many Croatian defenders have entered the system for the first time during all these war years, and that is the fact that please take care of you. So, it wasn't all the time the defense of the Republic of Croatia was 489 thousand 407, but all those people in the register gained the status of Croatian defender. I repeat the status of Croatian defender once again, I believe that all of you in this Chamber know this well, but because of the public status of Croatian defenders never gave anyone from the Ministry of Croatian Defence, neither at the time of the Minister of Njava and his associates, here is Agent Kovacevic, so he can confirm it, neither at the time of Mr Pancic and he can confirm it, nor at the time since I am head of the ministry. The statuses were obtained at the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior. Our job was to bring these data from those two ministries together, to clear up, there were more than 20,000 of those that appeared in both the MORH and the MUP, and some other things that we had to do. And here's how it went over the years. So by January 15, 1992, the first time the Croatian Army, i.e. the Ministry of Interior, entered 272 thousand 782 defenders, means more than 55.74% or more specifically. After January 15, '92, it means '93. It was the first time that 48 thousand 741 defenders entered that system, so 9.96% of that total number. In '94. The first time is 28 thousand 896, which is 5.90%. In '95. clear and understandable for which reasons 60 thousand 45 Croatian defenders amounting to a total of 12.27%. And in '96, and the law speaks clearly from when to when the status of 4000 144 is recognised. So after January 15, 1992, for the first time, 216 thousand 625 or 44.26% entered the Croatian Army system, or the Ministry of Interior. In total, it's 489 thousand 407. We have this, of course, parchment literally per year, per month, and you can see it all, whoever you need, we can deliver this to him. So here it is every month as far as it got into that system. About how these certificates were obtained, I can neither debate nor judge. People who had the authority to grant that status in those times can talk about it. As far as questions are concerned, why the register is not published in public. Ladies and gentlemen, for the simple reason it would be against the law, because of the laws that make it impossible. It's about personal data, it's about data that I simply don't have the permission of each individual, and yesterday they interpreted to me yesterday and if each of these 489 thousand 407 signed that it could be announced that then I as a minister, or the ministry couldn't publish it. So the law prevents us from publishing it, from publishing it publicly and then. However, any one of you who knows of any irregularity related to the acquisition of status or status of any other person within this system should report. All possible, several reports were anonymous, several were signed on e.g. Medical committees, etc. I immediately handed over as head of the ministry to the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia who can only decide. About, of course, how we listed in this report that the system has stabilized. We have stated because of what it really is. When we came to the ministry there were a hundred, there were 150, 200 people waiting to be accepted, and now it's only a few showing that things have stabilized, that things are being settled, and in support of that goes this report that I mentioned to you at the beginning of the staff's attorney who clearly in his report, and the public defender is your extended hand, the extended hand of the Croatian Parliament, and you really have to trust him. He said once again: "The adoption of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War 2004 which entered 2005 and the new organisation of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has significantly reduced the number of complaints related to the work of the competent authorities in the achievement and protection of the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War by introducing continued work of capable teams...", according to the Public Advocate, the able teams of the Ministry of Reception and Answers and Phones, he was encumbering parties and resolving individual cases or requests within a reasonable period, dropped the number of complaints and the Ombudsman. So in last year... I said mostly about the Administrative Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ev0, as regards the increase, or as regards complaints about defenders who have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder. I'd like to remind you, sir, Reverend Kurt, that this is exactly the law that has been in force since January 2007 has changed things. We are meaning, extended deadlines and always and now at this point there is an opportunity to prove the disease or to request disability based on the disease and unlimited of course under special conditions. And we said, I agree absolutely with you here, we said and I say it today as always and when I was a representative, about whether anyone got post-traumatic stress disorder, we can't decide whether you or I, politics. Only experts can decide that, therefore, doctors and that is the case. So it's just the medical committee. Never in any case have I not intervened, but I have not allowed it to be debated absolutely. So here we are, extending those deadlines by, of course, having a lot of, a lot of understanding. And as for the difficult social cases you've mentioned. Of course, I would like to remind you that we also introduced a single aid institute through the new law, that in the last year we invested more than 2 million kunas and 600 thousand kunas for this institute or for the one-time help of defenders. And that we're through the fund means we've also enabled the work of a foundation that has 25 million kunas. Thus, all these social cases can also be referred to the foundation. As for the law, you know what happened to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund. At the request of the experts, at the request of the then Securities Commission, we had a law left by the former government, here's a government in which you also parted, or your party, we had to change it because it was inconclusive. And then, in fact, all these fund-building processes started. So here, I think these clarifications are necessary and important. And around this register, so you can get the whole course, you can look at it, and then we can discuss it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87123	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87124	Your Honors Minister! Would you like to tell me the law and the point by which it is not possible to publish a list of Croatian defenders? That's one thing. Secondly, the Croatian Defence Fund adopted the previous government, and this government upgraded it and amended the laws so that it could be in office. No one's arguing that, and no one's thinking about it. So, those people who think that's not the case, let's take a look at the minutes from the session, and they'll see that that's the case. As for the patients with PTSD and the register itself. Madam Minister, we have a lot of people in the register coming to me in the field. They were members of the National Protection, they got an orderly card, they got points. When everyone goes to the Defense Office, it all cancels out and it's not valid. We have a lot of cases like that. I'll get you photocopies, I got 'em. I'll get you copies of the specific people. We have a lot of cases, our people who were on the battlefield in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they're not being led into a bookshop and they don't have a point on it. I'll get you those copies. I don't want to talk about it in public. But I'll bring you some to see what it's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87125	Thank you very much. 11 and 14. It's time to report a ten-minute hearing. SDP representative club, respected representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87126	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, members of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen! We have before us a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers for the past year. So it's a good time and a place to give a general assessment of everything we've done or haven't done to improve the position of Croatian defenders in our society. Before assessing the system of care for Croatian defenders, we have a few words about the report itself. It's extensive, with a series of information. However, there are also illogicalities and mistakes. For example, when it comes to the number of persons who have the status of a Croatian military disabled, it is said that the number of HRVIs has been increased by 11% and at the same time personal disability expenditure has been reduced by 0.2%. Twenty-six million, and I'm guessing that's what this is all about is knowingly hidden or a mere mistake has been made. Or the right to a special allowance. The number of users increases by 33% and the funds decrease from 7 to 5 million kuna. And that's only possible to see if we compare this report to the previous report since this report doesn't say how much money was paid last year, and in other items it's random. Such things should be taken into account when reporting because they unnecessarily leave room for doubt. And in some places, where data is not the best experience tells me, there are attempts and concealment of the right data. But let's move on to the key. As we could hear, the government is quite pleased with what its legitimate right is. But is that really how it is? By not reducing what has been positively done for Croatian defenders, however, we cannot accept in any case the view that with the new Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences has started some new period, a positive period and we cannot accept the assessment of the stabilisation of the care system for Croatian defenders as stated in the first sentence of this report, because the reality is quite different. Someone liked it or not. To avoid confusion, I never spoke on behalf of all Croatian defenders, as I do not accept that anyone else, or any other political option, speaks for all Croatian defenders. I hope those times are over. The system of care for Croatian defenders has been built for 16 years, and the law of 2004 is largely stemming from previous laws. It contains some new good solutions, a minimum retirement pension, an extension of the deadlines for certain diseases, burials with state honours and so forth. It is also good that the 2003 Law on the Croatian Defence Fund has provided new opportunities for additional assistance to individual categories of Croatian defenders and members of their families. However, let me be allowed to state only some common known facts that show that this system that the government will say is stabilised is exactly the opposite. The system is destabilised because the source of genuine dissatisfaction with the significant part of the defence population, especially the one with the rifle in hand on the battlefields throughout Croatia fought and fought for the freedom of our country. We only remember when the law was passed in 2004 and it suggested us from the SDP club that further expansion of the right to enrol in universities of all HRVI and volunteers is not a good solution especially for children here. The chaos at individual universities and dissatisfaction in most of the public has also led to the abolition of this legal provision by the Constitutional Court. It has never happened that some provision of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences has been abolished until this law. While the entry provision caused the biggest dissatisfaction at Croatian universities, the construction of the register of Croatian defenders has caused dissatisfaction with the significant number of defenders themselves. The reason is understandable. The number of Croatian defenders rose from 403,000 to 489 thousand with a likely trend of further increases in late 2003. The explanation we heard from the government that the defense attorney is so much because so many were listed by the MORH and the MUP was a little startling. The government has no interest in saying how many persons are registered, among others, on the basis of the decisions of ministers whose ministry officials have obtained the status of Croatian defenders without having been anywhere on the battlefield. This 489 thousand figure, no matter how hard we try to find a rational explanation for it, is a sufficient reason to prevent us from self-satisfaction with saying that the system is excellent. This system eats the dissatisfaction of the true Croatian defenders who fought. They didn't get anything, they didn't ask for anything, but the only thing they're looking for is that they're not belittled by numbers like this. About the register and the issue of criteria for the allocation of shares from the Croatian Defence Fund in which shares of INA and HT were transferred. As known, the criteria have also caused great indignation by particularly Croatian defenders who directly participated in the defense of the homeland. The current problem was the government's attempt to remove the announcement of a special working group that should have reconsidered the existing criteria. Of course, nothing important has changed. The criteria remain unchanged. The government's reasoning was that the criteria had been passed by representatives of the associations by trying to keep quiet that these distribution criteria had been adopted by the government as the law did. In this list, I point out the dissatisfaction of the Association of Prisoners and Missing Speeds of Exhumation and Identification, certainly the most important and painful humanitarian issue today in Croatia. One of the reasons for the problems in the missing persons' search process was that in the inadequate structure of the state administration, the former government's Office for Detained and Missing became only one of the ministry's administrations. The SDP's proposal to give greater authority to people working on these extremely important and sensitive jobs was rejected and the government's response was that the family of prisoners and missing persons was wrong. That it is not possible to talk about a complete and functional system and there are major problems in the way in which the measures are handled and applied to the major social problem of suicides. Although there is less politicisation of this problem in action than it was in 2000 to 2003, it is also known why there is still a great discrepancies in the action of competent state and professional institutions. Over the years, by entering the older age of the entire defence population, this problem will be potentially even more pronounced. As a result, it is high time to systematically apply prevention measures that will be able to save as many lives as possible. Today is not the case. That the system does not work, I am speaking in general about the functioning of social and state institutions and a whole series of events of violence of the worst kind where the perpetrators were found to be and this applies to all citizens of Croatia despite the established diagnosis of severe mental disorders neatly had licenses to hold and carry arms. And it seems to no one in power is concerned or unable to break the lobbys that have made these releases of different certificates and licenses a lucrative business. All this, like some other open problems. For example, on behalf of 170 defenders from Zadar this morning, it was warned that the long-term pending proceedings before administrative courts, which has not been true since yesterday, shows that there is no way to talk about stabilising the care system for Croatian defenders. It can be said that the application of the existing law will further increase the differences between the Croatian defenders themselves. The data that can be read from this report shows that the government has definitely identified itself as a model of care based entirely on passive monetary giving measures. Financial support for war victims is the most important measure of concern, so it has been with us so far, so in the world. That's not controversial. Peace and disability benefits are the best way to help people, but that's where we definitely differ. It must not be alone and especially not for those who are in full physical and mental voltage. Retired people from 35, 40 years of age who are able to attract are neither good decisions for them nor for society. This tendency to increase pension and disability expenditure due to an increase in the number of users 50% more pensioners and about 30% increase in the number of people with HRVI status is best seen by comparison in 2003 and 2006. The share of pensions and permanent rights three years ago, according to a report accepted here in the Croatian Parliament, was about 73%. That share is 87% today. It is interesting that the funds for the recruitment of Croatian defenders have dropped several times at the same time. So the number of HRVIs increased from 32,000 to 42,000, the number of people retired from 20,000 increased to about 30,000. At the same time, the number of newly employed Croatian defenders instead of growing it is dropping. In 2003 the number of newly employed Croatian defenders was 10 thousand 873 and 2006 9 thousand 653. Trend is negative and that's what's not good. This means that these employment measures should be strengthened. They must be more stimulating than possible retirement, although some major results unfortunately won't be anymore because we missed a series of opportunities we've had before. In the future, we will face the negative consequences of this pasivisation policy, and thus marginalisation of a significant part of the young population. And what is the relationship between those who have authority best shows respect for the institution of tendering for employment and respect for the provision of the law that says that the defender has the advantage of employment if he meets the other requirements required. A number of Croatian defenders' calls suggest that these provisions are being massively violated, especially in recent years. Many whose mouth is full of care for Croatian defenders when they are to be hired then do not hire a defender but hire their cousin or cousin or party colleague or colleague. It's particularly noticeable to say in these three years. I can also provide specific information about your relatives and your party colleagues. All this shows that there is no room for pleasure. And when the government is talking about stabilising the system of overall care for all categories of participants and victims of the Homeland War, it's purely clouding reality. A better position in the society of Croatian defenders and all other Croatian citizens can only provide fair authority. A government that will contain permanent sources of dissatisfaction in society, which are corruption and crime. They are naive ones who think that Croatian defenders who have selflessly sacrificed themselves in war or Croatian workers who have worked fairly throughout their early life will be satisfied with their position in Croatian society if, at the same time, as prominent members of that same society, they figure people who, as war buyers and shoppers, have become rich during the war on other people's accidents. As long as this is not resolved, until the question of how some generals have been resolved, the pillars of the then government will not be able to say that we have built a stable system of care for Croatian defenders because defenders do not need crumbs from someone's tables. The solution to this basic opposition to Croatia's transition with the strengthening of the institutions of the rule of law and economic growth and development are the only assumptions for full implementation of rights and laws and their possible expansion to those who are extremely difficult to live for. No fixed sources of income, without adequately settled housing issue, without adequate health care for themselves or for their children are numerous Croatian defenders. Often their pride and moral attitude that they did not fight to provide themselves with something added to this difficult situation. But the state must not forget them because of this kind of thinking. To allow these people to live and work normally will have to be our joint task for the coming years. The current system of care for this problem does not provide an appropriate answer. Finally, by supporting everything that has been positive in these years, but also by pointing to major existing problems in politics towards the Croatian defences of the SDP club, this report takes note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87127	Thank you. 13 Correction of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87128	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament in a series of inaccuracies, fraud and I would say lies I must correct at least one, and she is that this system is destabilised and that it is in decline. Namely, it is a notorious fiction that has no accuracy whatsoever, because this system really shows values through both financial and material and through human and moral relations to Croatian defenders. There is no suit of Paul Kavlic against you as it was sent by your fellow parliamentary representative, for you have also abolished his rights to him, let alone others. This is one of the claims I wish to emphasise in this House, that your parliamentary colleague, Pavle Kavlic, has accused you of removing his rights. And your defense card and your flow is questionable which we need to check how you are and who signed you to have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87129	Second Amendment, Honored Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In a series of incorrect allegations, one is disastrous that most of the defenders who carried the rifle in the Homeland War are unhappy. Mr. Pancic was dissatisfied when you were a defense attorney, when you abolished acquired rights, Minister, and I expected you to speak as a defense attorney, obviously you didn't. They were dissatisfied when they performed the tests that you gave them mp3 so they had to tell if they loved their mother and motherland. And the detachments this government has made are 71% higher and 2.3 billion kuna, respectively. So compare what you did when you were Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87131	Third correction, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87132	Thank you, sir... In a series of incorrect allegations, I'll only correct some. [[The speech room's off, you can't hear it.]] He says many defenders didn't get anything. Well, that's really not true. Only if we take two measures from the new law, which is an age pension is the lowest pension I think will include a large, large majority of defenders, precisely those who were not wounded or not sick. Then create chaos in enrollment. So how could chaos be created if we see in the report that only enrollment in high school or the whole same for first year of college. How could that create chaos? I think it actually provoked chaos and created the impression that there was chaos. It is also noted that only passive measures are applied, which is not true. In addition to passive measures necessary, active employment measures and any other types of care shall apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87133	Next correction, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Comrade Pancic, I'm your colleague, not your colleague, I'll tell you the following. Everything you said in 20 minutes in 2 minutes is impossible. It's not true that this report is without facts. This report is supported by facts, so I'm going to repeat some of the most basic. A new legal institute for the lowest pensions for family and old disability pensions of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War has been introduced. The creation of a single register of Croatian defenders in 2005 achieved one of the main preconditions of the Croatian Defence Fund, which at the end of 2005 had a value of 2 billion to 31 December this year, increased by 2 billion and 900 million kuna. In 2006, the Law on a fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defences and the award of scholarships was passed. Then in 2006 conditions were laid down for the exercise of the right to financial assistance to Croatian defenders from Homeland...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87135	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87136	...is abolished...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87137	Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh, correction of an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87138	... Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87139	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course there would be a lot of correction in the presentation of MP Pancic. But immediately at the beginning of his presentation, he pointed out that it was incorrect that the system was stabilized and that it was incorrect that new times had come for the defenders. Mr Pancicu is very true that the system that deals with the problems of the defender is stabilised and that it is true that new times have come for defenders, because defenders really care about them comprehensively at all levels and with all aspects and they have bread on the table and they do not need any crumbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87140	Next correction, honourable representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87141	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague said the defenders were unhappy with the criteria for... the stock. That's just not true. The defense organizations, the defense population, have just proposed these criteria. They are therefore satisfied with the criteria proposed. The second thing is indeed saddened that there was amnesia for what happened between 2000 and the end of 2003, because a colleague forgot that he had just reduced the rights of defenders, that he had trampled on their dignity, that he had declared them false disabled and had allowed them to perform shameful and humiliating tests. Their pleasure was great the moment you left your ministerial position.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87142	Next correction, respected representative Kresimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A series of incorrect allegations, but more importantly a series of unfounded and irresponsible statements. It's incorrect that the system isn't working. The system works on the satisfaction of Croatian defenders, but obviously it is not your pleasure. It is incorrect that this system causes dissatisfaction by true Croatian defenders, again completely incorrect. All in the manner of irresponsible, unfounded statements that fit the style and manner in which you led the Ministry of Defense. Your work was best evaluated by defenders from 2000 to 2003 during your term of office and it is a lasting and irreparable and only objective truth about your work. Fortunately, Croatian defenders today are much different, much better, more objective, more useful for Croatian defenders, but also for the Homeland War and the truth about the Homeland War as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87144	Next correction, respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87145	Thank you very much. Representative Pancic said in his debate that the system is not working and that it is destabilised as far as the defence attorney is concerned. Mr. Pancic, if you've forgotten, but I'll remind you, but also the general public and defenders that just when you ran the ministry, it was certainly a destabilized defense system and it absolutely didn't work because you had two secret entrances when you were a minister. If the defenders waited for their rights in front of the ministry, you went to one entrance and you ran to another and that's true for you. Everything you said in your debate, absolutely what we say in the people, doesn't hold water. That's not true. The defenders were never more humiliated than they were during your term of office, you must know that. The defenders didn't forget that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87146	Thank you. Next Amendment, Honored Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87147	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MP Pancic presented a large number of incorrect allegations in his presentation, and I will only have one. The system is destabilized and especially for defenders who have defended the Homeland with a rifle. Well, Mr. Pancic, that is indeed an incorrect and arbitrary allegation. You obviously weren't the defender who was defending this Homeland with a rifle, maybe you were holding the gun and holding it, but I'm not sure you were defending it. ... Take it easy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You are obviously denying that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families systematically regulated the issues of defenders and members of their families and that the institutions of the Croatian State headed by the Ministry of Defence are properly fulfilling their legal obligations to the defenders and their members of the family through everything that is today... The minister brought it out. [[The speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87148	Thank you. Next Amendment, Honored Representative Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87149	Thank you, Mr. President. It is wrong to say that the esteemed counterpart Pancic is guilty of the slow resolution of the fate of the missing and imprisoned of the administration for the prisoners and the missing. No, I don't. It's true that for the slowness of that is the basic reason... of those who might know something about it. [[You don't understand.]] In addition, the Vice-President confirmed this in the opening statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87150	Next correction, honourable representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87151	Well, here's a colleague, Pancic, claiming that the true defenders who fought with the gun in their hand were dissatisfied. It's a new category of defenders, I learned from Mr. Pancic that they're fake defenders, now they're real defenders, so something changes with him. But the vast majority of the defenders I know are satisfied with the new law and its implementation, but it seems that by fellow Pancic they are not true defenders, so maybe they are not true defenders and I are together with them, but we are truly happy that you are not minister and I hope you will never be defence minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87152	Next correction, honourable representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87153	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'd like to correct an incorrect quote from Mr. Representative when he says there was a riot in the colleges about enrolling the children of Croatian defenders. No, there was an organized chaos in only two to three universities in the Republic of Croatia, and we know what finally turned out to be even places for more students plus students of Croatian defenders. And one more thing when you said that this ministry and the government didn't take care of the employment of Croatian defenders, so you set one example that by 2004, there were 10,000 and 600 employees, that then a large number went into retirement and that by this year... Nine thousand and 800, so it makes sense. Every four years there will be fewer and fewer defenders unemployed, there will be fewer and fewer, more people who will retire. It's perfectly logical that in four years, we'll have fewer defenders who will be out of a job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87154	Thank you. Next and final correction, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87155	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The whole exhibition of Mr Pancic, a colleague of Pancic's, is one big false allegation. I will only correct the one where he said that the government and the ministry are leading a passive policy towards Croatian defenders, namely just to give monetary incomes, it is simply not true. Starting with the adoption of the law itself, then when it comes to active employment policy, resolving housing problems, housing status, this government and the competent ministry led absolutely one active policy and everything they did in agreement and in consensus with associations. However, your problem is, the problem of the former government that was in a permanent constant conflict with Croatian defenders, with defense associations and thank God that you are today trying to solve these frustrations of yours from that time, given that this is also a pre-election year. Therefore, all your attempts to deceive the Croatian public I do not think it will pass through the Croatian Parliament's pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87156	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87157	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, so I had to contact you simply to dismiss these SDP Club assessments regarding this report. The SDP Club's report at least spoke about what we have submitted to the Croatian Parliament, and much more has been politicized, Mr Pancic. So here's when you were talking about crumbs I want to talk about data. For you in SDP, two billion crumbs and two hundred million kunas have been added to our additional funds for the care of Croatian defenders and members of their families. For you there are certainly crumbs 3 billion and 712 million kuna and a little more in the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. When I came to the Ministry, you know it well, there was no zero kuna in the Fund, and there was no "godme" or "zero lip". For you, the crumbs, of course, and the debt that we had to repay for not fulfilling your obligations, according to your 2001 law, which you reduced your rights and then you were unable to respect. So 255 million debt to this year, and the "godme" this year has already paid 187 million for 2003 and the beginning of 2004. These are all naturally crumbs like crumbs buying 333 cars for the 100% disabled first group. So the most difficult, immovable of our Croatian defenders, the immobile of our friends who are entitled to cars and the car for them means life. For them, it means turning one new page. You didn't buy those cars because they did so by law and by your government, or by the law of 2001, so you didn't buy it. Ask Mr. Djuru Glogoski, president of the Association of 100% disabled first group, what he said at one of those cars' assignments and we had 20, 30, 40 cars each. And he said in public with his friends once that they were at your place for a conversation and asked for that right to come true, and that you threatened if they still insisted that it would not be a good time. But that's what he said publicly to the press, Mr. Honorable Representative. As far as your suspicions are concerned, there was something hidden in this report about money, of course, that I am vigorously rejecting on behalf of the government and on behalf of my ministry, and I urge you to look at the review report for 2006. The state audit also gave my ministry, the Croatian Defence Ministry an unconditional assessment. You know exactly what that means. So without a single comment. It's the third year in a row that my ministry gets such an audit report. So unconditional. Please state what the audit reports were while you were at the head of that ministry. I'm not going to politicize. I'm just telling the facts. See also the report by the occupier, who finds that the new structure and the adoption of the new law have far more things in motion and that the system has actually stabilized. As for yours, your findings on public dissatisfaction regarding the admission of children of Croatian wartime disabled and children killed, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders and decisions of the Constitutional Court I must only express the surprise that you are somehow glad that this happened. Because you know what that means, which would mean, for example, for children of the dead Croatian defenders. If they couldn't get into college, they'd be out of admissions. You'd lose your pension. However, I also believe in your satisfaction, we have managed to change things after the Constitutional Court's decision that after long talks with the rectorial assembly, we have agreed and signed an agreement with the representatives of the University, three, two ministries, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Family, the Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and the Rector's Assembly where it is clearly said that, by respecting themselves of course, the independence of the University, they will do everything possible to enroll the children of Croatian defenders who have died on the list of prisoners and missing. The children of the first group's Croatian wartime disabled because we think they deserve it. So we managed one more time, in one let's say, and let's call it a joint effort to enable these children to support the state because we think we are still standing in that position, we think that these children deserve the support of the Croatian state and that the state must stand in the place of their fathers especially Croatian defenders who have died... To the father's place. [[Applause.]] As far as the register is concerned, you said that here's the increase in the number of defenders in the register to 489 so you don't know where they're going to grow. Well, you're not informed. When we made the register there were 489 thousand 407. My question, of course, when you're wondering about the register, why didn't you make the register? Why didn't you make the register? It was the same obligation of every government, every government. You didn't do it because you knew it was a difficult, demanding job and that he would, of course, because you had the data that I have, you knew that it would cause any kind of debate and I gave you information about how in what year the number of Croatian defenders entered and entered the Croatian military system or police. You also said that the criteria were dissatisfied, that this caused great dissatisfaction. I'll tell you about the exact data. 1.5% of the defenders who received the calculations made a complaint like this or something. It certainly is not a great discontent. I can tell you about the great pleasure of those who said, "I'm getting something for the first time." That's not what I was counting on. We have a fund that is one of the most powerful funds, and for the first time I'm actually getting something I repeat or I went to the defense of Croatia or I went, I'm talking about the defenders, and I didn't expect it. You said that the government adopted the criteria, but you did not mention that the criteria were adopted by the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund, and I repeat to the Management Board of the Fund again once again, Croatian defenders have the majority and that they and what they propose will be accepted. Both ministers, both defence minister and interior minister, said that anything else is impossible to change in terms of the system and, of course, given the data. And something else when you talk about suicides. I am, of course, among those who will again call on us not to politicise about the suicides of Mr Pancic. I'm asking you nicely because you know exactly what the data is. In '99, 2003, the highest number of suicides. We will not mention these figures for political purposes. I'm asking you nicely. This is a pre-election year. Any shooting over the back of a defense attorney, talking about suicides is something that's very dangerous. That's what the waist warns and I'm asking you nicely, please have the data, you can see that here in 2006 for 10 less fortunately. Let's do everything we can to make them disappear. However, let us also consider the fact that, given the general population, the number of suicides in the defender is actually smaller. I asked Mr. Pancic in 2004 to finally present information on the number of defenders who have committed suicide since the beginning of the war. You know, in 2003, the defenders were looking for PTSD. Why didn't you come out with those numbers? Why haven't you met the public as far as your term of office, or during your term of attorney, raised his hand to himself. I brought it up because I think the public must know about it, as I think the public must know about all the details of the care of Croatian defenders' rights. Or why, for example, you didn't provide data on a study by the Public Health Institute that you ordered on suicides and never published it. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's good to discuss it this way, because then, of course, we're going to extract all that information about who he was declaring to be a fake military invalid, about a Vojko Marinovic being named a fake invalid, and today he's got a geller in his head. On statements that you do not give HVIDRs lip or kuna while you are in power, etc. etc. Therefore, I call once again for a reasonable and reasoned debate on what we have done, but also on what we must do in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87158	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87159	And you should.../The speaker went off and turned it back on./... To go down there will be...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87160	Please! Here you go. Nobody touch the microphone! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87161	If you're heroes now you'll turn it off! I'm sure a dozen minutes should be fixed by all the incorrect things the Vice President said here. But in these half minutes, just to look back on one thing. Mrs. Kosor says why I'm surprised by the numbers in the register and why I didn't make that register. There were 403,000 Croatian defenders in my register. In your 489. But what I'm surprised at, I'm surprised you're politicizing anything you touch, and as far as the crumbs are concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87162	Order! Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87163	... and the 200 kn disability on which Croatian defenders were forced are crumbs from the bags of jewels that ended up in the hands of your assistant minister, or in the hands of the assistant minister in the then HDZ government. ... So first, look around and clean up in your backyard when you possibly want to point something at someone else's yard. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] That's just it, angel!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87164	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Order! Order! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87165	Mr. President, thank you. I hope I'm running out of time. So I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of Madam Secretary, who, in her shadow of the data, wanted to point to the perfection of the defense system and the satisfaction of the defense attorney. Madam Minister, according to your report, 24721 is an unemployed Croatian defender, and of which only 42 unemployed Croatian defenders used the right to cash compensation. So 25,000 defenders are dissatisfied with the existing system of care. I absolutely agree that suicide really does not need to be politicised and not to be politicized, but that's what you did and you didn't say that in 2006, 119 defenders did suicide, 2005. 129, unlike 2000, when it's 117, and as far as the total, in terms of totality during the coalition government, suicide committed 505 defenders and for your 1246, including the political option that you belonged to.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87166	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87167	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Nothing, one more time. I think it's good to get this catalogue of Croatian defenders' rights once a year. It is good to see the amounts paid from the budget of the Republic of Croatia for these purposes and they are certainly significant. In 2006, 4 billion 789 billion kunas were paid by this law or by all these laws. It's a 5% circus of the Republic of Croatia's budget for the year. 2005 means the year before that was 4164 million kuna, 2004. 3 billion 918 billion kuna, 3 billion 491 billion kuna was secured in 2003. So between 2006 and 2003, the difference is a billion and 298 million kuna. I don't know how it turns out to someone 2 billion and 200. Or in 2004 compared to 2003, about 12% more funds were provided for these purposes, compared to 2004 only 4% more funds were provided for these purposes, less than the growth of the budget for that year, 2006 compared to 2005, around 11.5% and when we look at how the budgets grew and how much they grew then we see that the average is the same somewhere in that period 2004-2006. Clearly, this is among other reasons and the introduction of the so-called Defence pensions of 45% of the average salary for which more funding will have to be provided from year to year. What's understandable is saying, interestingly, that in this institute, this material is not, it's not mentioned. I just want to say after the average pension is so-called. In 2006, the new pensioners reached an amount of 562 kuna, 531 kuna less than the old pensioners, and the intensity to continue, so if nothing is done in 2009 it will amount to about 100 kuna to the damage of these new pensioners. This 45% average salary for defenders, i.e. pension, leads to an average pension at this time of 2 thousand 100 to 2 thousand 200 kuna. Let it be so clear and stay so clear because with 2 thousand 100 kunas it can be hard to survive, and with a thousand 562 kunas how many these new pensioners have an average pension almost nothing. It is 52 kuna a day if the month has 30 days or 50.38 kuna if the month is 31 days old. Let's make the old and the new pensioners equal. Clearly, this is not the topic of equating new and old pensioners, but I repeat that this part of the pension reform where defenders are given a minimum of 45% of the average salary was certainly one commendable gesture. Defendant, i.e. the child of a deadly defendant, if he has the same conditions, has the advantage of hiring in public authorities. It's a shame that there's some information here about how many surveillance requests were made in 2006, and that we don't know how many people were admitted to public service in that way, the more that about 4000 500 public officials are going to be admitted in 2007. A clear child of the victim’s defender, especially both parents, deserves a special treatment. In my court, the same treatment should be given to children of those parents who suffered without reason, I mean here on that disabled child of one of the injured directors of the Serbian Post Office. This government has done I claim a great moral thing by paying compensation, i.e. The settlements in the case of the injured rabbit family and the opinions I am also so in these cases which I mention every authority must take care of, because that simply makes us a civilization community. As far as the unemployed are concerned, there are 24 thousand 721 defenders. It's clearly a cancer wound at any moment because of the 500 thousand defenders, it's somewhere 5% or more accurate than 489 thousand 407 and it's me, according to my court saying that this population is being taken care of because... Water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87168	So it's a fixer-upper.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87169	Okay. Never mind. And that means that this population is being taken care of. These employment measures, especially this self-employment, should be encouraged because everyone will agree that full-time employment policy is the best social policy, but if you have benefits on one side, for example. credit means should then be taken into account on the market criteria either for obtaining competitive transactions, whether these customs benefits, and especially in this second one the defenders should equate I would say with the other Croatian citizens. Total on page 102 should, but no customs duties, special taxes, etc. VAT of 102 million kuna. Nothing spectacular, but following some abuses, the benefits of importing cars need to be seen what's going on here. I want to say 4.8 billion kuna under this Act is the circus 5% of the Croatian budget. I agree that the Croatian transition among other things is burdened with the cost of war that there is no country in our neighborhood and that somewhere with a circus 10% of the budget goes for these purposes. It's not small money. I think, once again, I'm going to say these amounts that go to the defense population aren't any privilege, especially when money goes to people with disabilities. They need to be provided with everything because they have entrusted their bodies to this country. However, from year to year, the number of people with disabilities increases by 10%, and this can then be indicative that someone abuses this Law. I repeat again to the disabled all. We can go home without pay, they must have the best care, they must have the best protection, they must have maximum treatment, but in 2006 it was on average 41 thousand 904 users of the basic disability or 10.87% more than in 2005. These means 10.87% means about 4 thousand 300 to 4000 400 people with disabilities more in 2006 than in 2005, and I want to note that since the war, 11 years have passed. For personal disability, 210.9 million kunas were allocated in 2006 or what Mr. Pancic spoke to me about 0.02% less than in 2005, and we have 4 thousand 300, 4 thousand 400 people more than that year. I'm not going to talk about a disability review against which real disabled people clearly have nothing, but such an increase of 10.87% wonders, although I agree with this sentence that Mrs. Secretary said would not be tried by politics, but only by doctors. You also know that I stand for the disabled II. World War I is also followed by fate, so Zdenko, a cripple from the Homeland War because the lost hand of a young man in '41, '43. in the vicinity of Buzet or Delnica is as valuable as the hand of a young man who lost in Vukovar or in the vicinity of Dubrovnik. The code or the disabled is recognized by the civilization character of society, and there must be no distinction here, Mrs. Zdenka. This recognizes whether there is either no rematchism toward certain categories, or everything is left to be forgotten. But don't bother with the thought that someone once extended those people's rights as someone has denied the pensioners, let's just say '93 rights. year or as Mr. Djakic says someone denied the defenders in 2001 "their acquired rights". Now it's all political. Whether she exists or doesn't exist to make it right. What are the most common diagnosiss of a defense attorney with disabilities? It's PTSD first. And by the percentage of damages in the first place are 20, 30, 40 percent disabled. 20% which makes sense 12 thousand 621, 30% of them 10 thousand 992 etc. I don't think there's anything going on here. I'll say again that in 2006, we have 10.87% of people with disabilities more than in 2005. I said, I repeat again, for the disabled, everything. They must take precedence over everyone, but I'm surprised at the increase. I'm not saying anything, but I said, that rise might be weird. As for housing, granting housing loans, I think you should go out and meet those Valovina defenders in Pula. But why do I mention it? Because at the end of 2008-2010, we have 525 apartments. Not one in Istria. And only Crikvenica is mentioned in the Primorje-Gorski County. Otherwise, that's where the defense attorney's place works. The POS sort of introduces order, because it bothers this resale that's constantly in place. As we say now by Matulović-Dropulić Minister, what is proposed to make it impossible to mix or resell at 10 years of age with those apartments. I recently read in "Free" how many POS apartments were resold in the Split area and how much money someone made. And it's clearly bothering you. Someone will say, someone has mentioned this before Pancic if I am not mistaken, and Croatian generals also received apartments of 100, 130, 180 square meters for 80, 90 thousand kuna for 12 to 15 thousand euros that the Croatian government had bought for 250, 300 thousand euros a few months before. But that's a different story. It is necessary to install into the law a clause of some restriction of disposing in, say, 20, 25 years, as I said about POS as proposed by Minister Matulović-Dropulic, and not that these apartments are then found I would say as a resale factor. The loan is divided into 71.9 million kuna. In 2006, 2007 with regard to the completion of the apartments, it will surely be a good year, i.e. it ended. 134 plus 311 apartments will be handed over in 2007. Unfortunately, none in Istria. 28 apartments in Rijeka on Upper Zamet. But I urge that the problem and these Valovina be solved. That's where the city, if I'm not mistaken, gives land, communals. Let the state build them. You refer to the resolution report throughout Croatia, including this building in Valturska, Pula. What's in that building that the contractors did, it's a shame. For example, a building in this country should be torn down, made by a contractor to make a new one, or in his own cost, to remove the works. In one of the buildings in the Spanish village or not I don't know the settlement, for 113 apartments, the ministry has singled out another 11 and a half million kunas. That's amazing. Well, that's why I'm saying, someone should really be invited in. For the end of the disability review, I won't talk. But what hurts the most is suicide. And maybe we shouldn't bid on those numbers. They may have to be mentioned, but they don't have to be auctioned. It doesn't need to be politicized. It's a painful wound for everyone. By the end of 2006, a thousand 751 people took their own lives. And it hurts. And now, perhaps these tables that are at the end of the report should be placed at the very beginning because at this point it may be the biggest problem of this defense population that people are dying, almost as they are in the war. And now not to say how far it is, in which time it has taken its own life. That really doesn't need to be politicized. This is where the HVO is mentioned. But again, I see that this matter is knowingly avoided. This report, I would say would be maximum correct if you followed it and analyzed for the Croatian Defence Council. Representatives, the Croatian public need to know the exact data for the HVO as well. It can be said that out of 5 billion kuna this year 1/5 funds will go to HVO. And that's why there's no need to speculate with that data because otherwise the report will be flawed and we'll have the impression that something wants to hide. In front of who? There's no need. Not in front of the local public, not in front of the international community. This other one is very good and better than we know how much, where, what goes on, what just happens. And so the minimum, minimum correctness would be if we could find out the expenditure on those purposes this report is knowingly concealing. But for the end of one sentence only. If a category is taken into account, it is the defenders and I do not agree to the the thesis that this category of concerns is more guided today than it was in 2000-2003 and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87170	Thank you. ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I hope I've been able to see the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Shirac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87171	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! In his debate, Mr Cain injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 209(1), which says so. The speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. Mr Cain discussed very extensively the rights of pensioners from work relations and other pensioners who, today, this topic is not on the agenda. Today is the agenda report on the enforcement of the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders. And it's not right to bother us with something that's not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87172	Okay, as part of this topic, I don't think the Rules of Procedure and Article 209 are injured. Correction of an incorrect quote...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87173	Article 210(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87174	Your Honor, Mr. Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Cain, this is not a catalogue of the rights of Croatian defenders which you incorrectly claim. This is the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87176	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87177	Mr. President! Comrade Cain, it is not true that there is no discrimination in the determination and award of pensions between members of the Croatian Army or on one side or on the other at the time of the Homeland, World War II. There are still 69,000 NOB members who receive pensions neatly, their status is being questioned because they received status on the basis of three witnesses. And every year that number grows. They seem to be being bypassed by a biological process. Tell me how. And for work based on how many pensions political prisoners and members of the Domobran army receive. As for the report on the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and BiH on resolving the status of members of the Croatian Defence Council, it is not hidden, it is under way, the first and second phase is under way, and I hope that the commission will do what did not happen in the country of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87178	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87179	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's entirely wrong to assume that buildings that are badly built should be called up by someone. Well, that's different with us. With us if the building is badly built, it leaks, say Vukovar, Cres, Spain, which was done by the Coning Group, then the chances for the prime minister's place of the company's owners are far greater.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87180	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the honourable representative of Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87181	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr. Agent Caine who said the lost hand of an anti-fascist fighter and a fighter of the Homeland War is equal. That's incorrect. In Croatia, unfortunately, that is not the case. I absolutely agree that people who gave part of their body to defend their country and in the Homeland War but also in the anti-fascist struggle should be given all rights and equal rights. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Croatia when it comes to disabled anti-fascist fights. And especially saddening me, only mentioning the anti-fascist struggle and the victims that were given challenged by a certain political elite in this country, unfortunately the marble.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87182	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87183	I'm correcting two incorrect allegations of my dear colleague Cain. The first is that the war ended eleven years ago. That's incorrect. The war ended on January 15, 1998, and from "Storm" to January 15, 1998, our defenders were killed and wounded and in preparation for the final release which God did not need because the Danube was released through negotiations but also in numerous actions that were on the ground. Second, it's incorrect for the government to cover up expenditure data for the HVO. The ministry of Ms. Vice-President Kosor and this government have shown full transparency of spending on HVO and not only showed them but have compensated everything the previous Government did not do and thus gave the Croatian Defence Council honour for what they did in defense of aggression on Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87184	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87185	Here, maybe we've fixed a little bit of Damir too much, he hasn't talked so badly about this report, he's given commendable words for it, but I would still correct it. In the end, he said that both the former government and this government were equally concerned. Damir, that's not true. This was seen from today's presentation of the former minister. I'd say he doesn't understand today, which is why he said so. He doesn't understand the point today and he hasn't noticed what this government and this ministry has done for the defenses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87186	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87187	Thank you very much. Here, I'll just take a minute. Only one piece of information presented by the distinguished representative Cain so that there would be no misunderstanding, and I believe that Mr Cain will also serve as here's the information for the next and future debates. Speaking of funds for members of the Croatian Defence Council, Mr. MP, you said that about one-third of the funds provided for defenders, one-fifth will still be spent on the care of members of the Croatian Defence Council. I remind you that the budget for the defenders is about 5 billion kuna and we are going to spend about 50 million kuna on this purpose this year. So it's certainly not one-third or one-fifth. As for the Valovina you mentioned. Yes, we take care if there is, of course, interest and local administration, if land is found and I want to clarify that we can take care of it everywhere and from Valovina those Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime disabled people who gain their status permanently. So as long as they have temporary we can't because the law doesn't allow it. Once they've gained their status permanently then of course we'll do everything. Here. Thank you very much. I believe that'll help.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87188	Thank you. The word has a respected representative of Željko Ledinski Club of HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87189	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable ministers, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few words, along with a proposal for a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the past year. Well, here I would say first and foremost as a Croatian defender who participated in the Homeland War and as a man who has spoken many times about the passing of this law that we have passed and which is today, on the basis of which we are talking about the report for the past year. First of all, I'm glad that this report goes in the morning, not like last year, which was the afternoon, so the public hears about it. And the report itself shows that there are quite a number of the rights set out in this law and that as much as possible use of the data of all ministries, in fact most of the ministries and that there is already over 4.8 billion is the achievement of these rights in one year, which is about 5% of the budget, which is quite a large amount of data. It seems to me that there are also some rights, in fact some data that are from certain ministries that are not even regulated by this law. But what I'd like to say. A month ago, I had a regular conversation that we MPs had with students from Petrinja High School and then one of the students asked me, "Advocacy, what privileges have you as defender now achieved after the Homeland War?". Unfortunately, because her father is also a defender and she was interested in what privileges they were. Unfortunately, some of our people feel that the defenders have gained some privileges. I want to find out that these are not privileges and that we can't talk about any privileges. Because the common defender who participated in the battlefield had no opportunity to exercise some kind of great rights. If he didn't have the money to buy a car with customs release, he couldn't make it happen. If he had some kind of job he couldn't get means even the right to be unemployed is he? Whether it's a small company or not, is that a small salary, big or the rest? He also no longer has the right to participation. So we can't talk, and you see people have the impression that there are certain privileges. So I think we still have to have reports like this that point to everything that's been done and I don't want to bid on whether anyone has done more or less for certain rights. But sure that you can always do more, you can always do better, and it's visible from this that here's an increased number of defenders from, which we've had opportunities to hear already, means that since the 2003 period when, I don't know, they're... From three and a half billion kuna, that right now at 4.8, this year 4.9 and more, so I believe that's going to be more and more in the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I would like to talk about in spite of all this concern that we still have a lot of problems with that defense population. We still have one large number of unemployed. I remember being somewhere while I was mayor there in 1995, 1996, it seems to me that there were about 25 thousand unemployed somewhere. Now that number's the same somewhere. So we have to do enough to help this population get employment through active, permanent measures. Let's just say that we were from about half of 2005 to somewhere I don't know which month of 2006 we weren't in charge of any incentive measures at the Employment Service. And, of course, the consequence of that is that in the last year, there's a slightly smaller number of new employees on that basis. I would also say that out of the total 4.8 billion in, according to the Employment Service report last year, only 35 million kunas were spent on employment. I would say that these are relatively small measures that will not allow for higher employment. Let's say those measures that were before mid-2005 when we were in the first year of employment... in the second year 50% were far better than these now where according to the employed defender 20 and some thousand kunas are... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One move. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these measures certainly could be bigger because let's say we compare that 13 million are used for certain manifestations, 13 and 500 seem to me, and to encourage employment 35, then I believe that this relationship could improve over the next years in favour of the employment of defenders. Also certain support and certain incentives, the establishment of cooperatives gave certain results but clearly that of these 120 cooperatives established that they all expect certain support so... to hurry up with these assistances so that all these meanings of cooperatives can reach these funds as soon as possible and thus make it possible to work better and better for themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, self-employment measures may need to be increased and made possible by people deciding on these measures. And also crediting small entrepreneurship. I think there might be a part of the funding, then more employment. And let's say from individual projects in the past year, it has been stated that only six such projects are anything that means there may not be enough sensitivity for such measures that would allow one better and better quality employment. Also in that section here when you talk on page 102 about the reprogramming of certain loans that were previously granted ten years ago, in any case here I think it would be useful and follow up on the execution of this but also allow the team to return it to them if they could not, over 10 years ago, the question whether they would be able as defenders, whether they had found their status at all and whether they would be able to repay those funds that were not large at all. Perhaps you can see if in 10 years it has failed to write off the rest of these claims or in some way that the state is behind it. I don't think that's a whole lot of funding compared to these 4.8 billion. And in this increase you've announced the ministers may be able to help our defenders in this way. But I say of all the measures that are listed here, what is particularly worrying me about the data of the past year is that since 1304, the defendant has died almost every 10 or 11 or something he committed suicide. Unfortunately, we have witnessed this in practice every third day for some of the defenders to commit suicide, and this must concern us all. And with all the measures we've done, maybe we need to see what's more detailed and how we can figure out how these measures will bring about a result that won't be defeated like this. Since it is evident that every year about one company commits suicide and in 4 years it is one military that is very large data. It will turn out that postwar suicide is far greater than during the war. And I'm not saying an expert on all these jobs, but I also feel with a conversation with the defenders that there are often certain problems that make it happen. So I'm appealing that it's also trying with various forms of help, psychological help, and whatever else there is to find the possibility that this part, the number of suicides, is going down. What also concerns me is the number of suicides of our defense attorneys' children who are the same size but I haven't found any information, I don't know if he exists, but I think it would be good for someone to deal with it. We have cases very often, and so far the defense attorneys are making a suicide. I think we need to worry about that too. It doesn't mean that it has to be information just because of the defenders, but in the general population it would be good, it would be good if someone could show that information because we have a lot of problems. And they're present. I also say all these measures that are numbered, which could help in better work in future times, and since it is also relatively close to 5% of the budget now are being allocated to the defence population, then I would say it would be good to try to do all these measures as best and better as possible, and then we will come to the goal of being able to talk about the rights of the defenders and how they are being realized without public opinion that these are certain privileges. Because it's the Croatian defenders who created this country and went back to the beginning of that story when that student asked me what the privileges were. I said that the privileges are that we got the Croatian state, and that the rest of the parts we have to talk about are rights that need to be achieved under the law. The HSS representative club will accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87190	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, forgive the correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87191	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I'm going to correct an incorrect allegation of privilege only. Dear colleagues, the report does not mention privileges anywhere, but the rights of Croatian defenders stemming from the law. All rights are defined by law and there are no privileges. Privileges were from the mouth of former Minister Pancic and coalition authorities, that Croatian defenders use privileges. It was probably your authority too, so that's what's left of your nature to talk about privileges.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87192	Thank you. I don't think the esteemed representative Ledinsky was talking about privileges, but he convinced one of his conversations and that it was commonly addressed in the people whether the defenders jumped out of their privilege. If this is what I've explained, you're not raising any damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87193	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You explained it, but I'm surprised that my fellow comrade Djakic, who was with me on the battlefield, did not follow what I was saying and thus injured the article of the Rules of Procedure and thank you for warning him!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87194	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's more from this debate, Mr. Ledinsky, I need some more clarifications, so thank you for your opportunity. In fact, Mr. Representative mentioned, among other things, employment with rights and self-employment and resources, you said that more funding should be required, so I also said in the introduction that we increase the total amount of employment each year. But here's to this self-employment measure I want to give you the information that we've predicted 20 million kunas for this year for self-employment. These are, of course, grants and we have announced a tender for that measure. We envisioned 1,000 support, meaning 1000 Croatian defenders who would get that support. However, a significantly smaller number has appeared to us in the competition and we will now report 412, but of course not everyone has met the requirements. So we will and I think it is good information for both you and the public, primarily for Croatian defenders, that we will, for example, repeat the competition precisely for this measure. So, for self-employment on June 1st, so maybe they are. This should be analysed whether it is of reduced interest or not to be informed. So there's money, there's money enough just here we're looking to hear from the defense attorneys. For professional training, for an unknown employer we predicted 4 and a half million, for cooperatives 6 and a half million this year, and here is to support individual projects we predicted a million kunas. So, for ten individual projects. So, in total, I repeat 40 million for employment this year more of course than last year. And yet another eye so that it wouldn't remain unexplained. You said there was an increase in the number of defenders. No, he's the same as he is in the register because there's an increase in funds. I just want to remind you that the funds of course increase for Croatian defenders, that from 2002 to here today we have increased by around 2 billion and 200 million kuna. But of course we had to increase this because of a series of measures, i.e. the institute that we introduced through the new Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. I remind you of the minimum pension institute, I remind you that they do not obsess over rights on the basis of the death of a Croatian defender from the Homeland War who committed suicide, the deadline for submission of the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid has been extended, and thus a number of disabled persons have achieved their status. That is why, of course, it needs more money and there is a right, for example, to bury all Croatian defenders and, of course, at the expense of the ministry, it is, of course, rude to talk about money, but we have also calculated it into the budget of the Croatian Defence Ministry. So here's the thing, and thank you very much for speaking specifically about employment because it is a measure that should certainly put a central place in the future in the care of Croatian defenders and children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87196	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative of Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87197	Dear Madam Minister, the data that supplies from 2005 increased by 11.23% in favour of this, which is the counsel's social assistance, that these actions taken in the ministry regarding self-employment, the employment of defenders did not win results because 11.23% more defenders received in last year's social assistance. It's a supply. Here's the report in your report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87198	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by Commissioner Ledinsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87199	Here's a thank you for these suggestions from Madam Secretary, but I'd just like to correct one quote. According to the data you gave here on page 4, the difference isn't 2.3 billion, it's 1.3 billion. You've already twice seemed to mention 2.3 to me. So I'm asking, according to the data we have here to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87200	On behalf of the HSP Club, distinguished representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87201	Dear Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today's topic is the Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, and I can only say that I am not satisfied during today's debate, given the fact that by who knows what time the content of the debate continues to be held in the Croatian public, and that this session is allegedly conveyed and contributes to the perception of the completely wrong perception of the Croatian public in relation to Croatian defenders and their rights. In fact, 80% of Croatian defenders in this Croatian state work, pay, what kind of salary, share the fate of all other citizens who work and receive salaries in Croatia, 80% of Croatian defenders pay taxes and, of course, their taxes are full of the state budget, and out of this budget is the law we are talking about today. If we talk about Croatian defenders, and the term Croatian defender related to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence is something that is present in Croatian media, in the Croatian public and here in debates. Few people who wish or forget that among Croatian defenders there are those who have really great rights, one small part, 10 percent, and that the vast majority of Croatian defenders, because such a law in the Republic of Croatia has very little rights or they are more or less declarative. This can be seen through arguments on the spending of financial resources through the exercise of rights and through a brief description of rights. The average Croatian defender in the Republic of Croatia, I'm talking about 80% of Croatian defenders, I repeat today, pay taxes. And she reads the newspaper in Croatia and watches TV. In that newspaper and on that television, he can mostly listen to Croatia continue to become a crime, who is a war criminal. And it was mostly of course from those who at a time when he was a Croatian defender were somewhere on the sidelines of Croatian society and did not dare or report to the public, let alone comment. Today they also got the opportunity to display the closer history of Croatia and the same Croatian defender who watches the newspaper, so they address television without having to bear the consequences. The same average Croatian defender has a defence card, it serves him to prove his status. Now if we were to ask what he did with his defense card he had recently received, he could do to which door he could knock and use that card, then of course we don't have an answer. There's a little door or there's nowhere he can go, where he needs that card at all. But the average Croatian defender is, of course, pleased with the fact that he has his own Croatian state and is pleased to have received that card, which in a symbolic sense proves to him himself that he has performed his civic duty. And for that, of course, he doesn't ask for privileges. Because talking about privileges when talking about Croatian defenders is simply not correct. This average Croatian defender, 80% of Croatian defenders received a notice from the Defence Fund, received a notice saying he spent some time in the Homeland War and received a calculation of points that he of course did not understand. It's about some thousands, hundreds. But that doesn't matter too much to him either. What may bother him is that through newspapers and television through these same media he keeps reading that the Croatian state has done so much for him because he has received these shares in the fund. If we were to ask ourselves today what it is worth to the average defender to share in the fund, then we would probably get the answer, of course that answer is avoided, it is not correct for Croatian defenders to warm up their hope, and believe them there are hundreds and thousands, and the vast majority is in that belief that they will deal with their existential problems, apartments and other life problems. And mathematics or economy say that today with these stakes in the fund, of course not yet, there is no possibility that they will be allocated to money, but in a very short time these shares, future shares, can be verified, can possibly buy several square centimeters of apartment in Croatia, perhaps. Maybe a few crates of beer. The average Croatian defender. And that's what they need to be told in public. It's a duty of authority, of those who interpret the law. And that is a good point that defenders are under-informed on both their rights and the content of their rights. It is necessary to speak publicly and persistently, of course, one who wants good to the Croatian defenders, should not be told them that you will be able to solve your existential problems from the shares of the Croatian Defence Fund, because these are symbolic amounts, these are amounts as they are, which the Croatian state can symbolically give you. But they can't solve and they won't be able to solve your existential problems. It would be an honest, honest approach to Croatian defenders. And that's what they need to be told. Not to warm up debates about hundreds of thousands, whether it's 450 or 480, or a thousand 100 points or 8 or 5 points. So how important is 5 or 8 points. It's symbolic, of course, but in real value it's going to be 3 or 10 beers more or less. And let us not warm up their hopes that are not founded. It's not fair and it's not keeping their dignity. They didn't even ask the state to give them anything special. And that's why you shouldn't keep them in the belief that I don't know what they'll get from the Croatian Defence Fund. This Fund of course has a significant amount of shares. But when it's divided into a large number of people, then it's clear how much it's really worth. The real relationship between the Croatian state and the Croatian government towards Croatian defenders when it comes to the Fund can be proven through other things. Through the question, why so far, apart from HT and INA, there are no other shares in the Fund, so that it is significantly larger. That's not what you're talking about. Because of course there are other reasons why it doesn't happen. We can also ask ourselves why the Fund is in a foreign bank. Who has the Fund and how. According to the Fund's knowledge so far, it treats the good master's manners, and I have to say there are some indicators that say that there are both incomes and there should not at least be a public statement that there is no information so far that there is something to be criticised. However, it should be said that this government did not, when it comes to the Fund and when it comes to HT and INA shares, leave dividends belonging to those shares to the Croatian Defence Fund, but took them into the state budget. It's 150 million kuna. It's even the subject of a constitutional suit. And it was based, while we had here in the Parliament, in the government's view that these money belonged to the state budget, not to the Croatian Defence Fund. And the government could have had a different opinion, thus showing how much she cares about Croatian defenders, so today we would have not in the foundation 25 million, but perhaps 70 or 100, and in the scholarship fund we also have something more, but we don't. The average Croatian defender, 80% of them if he is unemployed, but most are employed, work and pay taxes, can expect support in employment. In this problem, this government has shown that it understands the problem and has made several moves, of course more where defenders can say that this is the Ministry and this government has shown understanding for those who are unemployed and that they can find help in their employment and there are some results. A common Croatian defender who I repeat works most of the time has a salary and pays taxes can tell his family, his family, his friends that in the term of this government he acquired the right to a minimum pension and a funeral. When it comes to minimum pension, it is of course a significant measure, but the question is when and how many people will use this right, if we know that Croatian defenders are 40, 45 years old, and in order to retire under the general rules should be 65 years old or disabled, but not as Croatian wartime disabled, but disabled, and the trend is as we can see that even extends the year, then we can hope or expect that most Croatian defenders will use this right in some foreseeable future, of course provided that someone else does not change the law and does not abolish that right. So that right minimum pension is currently in effect and it's good that it's in effect. It says 40% of the average pension in Croatia has the right defender, 45 pardons. However, it should also be considered that these 45% should get some others, that they will probably get, that there will be some changes, but there is little, but it is worth it and it should be commended. As far as the ceremony's funeral is concerned, it is the only right to be realised, which all Croatian defenders have. Of course, it depends on the possibilities. It is difficult to assume that the Croatian Army and the Ministry of Defence will be able to cover all obligations stemming from the provision of the law with the people and resources now and at its disposal. We see that this is more or less difficult in the field, but if the number increases will be difficult and materially covered by the costs of the funeral, and also in that organisational sense, because at the same time in many places the Croatian Army seems to have enough soldiers participating in the ceremony, however, the question is whether the Croatian Army will be reorganised for the next year or for two years it should become a problem and about this should be in the Ministry of Defence as for, as a future problem that may be a little thought. This same Croatian defender who works, receives salary and pays taxes could hope from this government, from this Croatian state in this term that, for example, take part in the process of buying state land under favourable conditions. In many municipalities and cities, a kind of battle takes place for state land, processes, lawsuits, competitions, but what is a fact and what should be emphasized by the Croatian defenders in criteria, although this is not the position of the Ministry of Family and Defence, that is, we are now talking about the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture, but the Government is Government and power is power. There are no Croatian defenders in the criteria. The Croatian fifth-placed defender Sockovic can be photographed and may be able to pass the competition because VAT is the first criterion. So we have a great dissatisfaction with Croatian defenders who expected that the Croatian state would take into account their status as defenders and in selling and assigning agricultural land to them. Mass examples are that this is not happening and through this part we could do the same, not only through the care of Croatian defenders. Croatian wartime invalids and families of the dead who are users of 90% of the funds of this Act, these rights and budgets are satisfied and we are, if they are satisfied and we are satisfied. So the law is implemented correctly and we can be satisfied with law enforcement, order has been introduced, debts have returned, thank God has stopped the lawsuits, some settlements have been made, and the shame that Croatian defenders must sue their country has finally been resolved and it should be commended. So Croatian wartime disableds and families of the dead can be satisfied and are satisfied with the fact that they have relatively large rights in relation to the economic possibilities of the state, which is 10% of Croatian defenders. 80% of Croatian defenders cannot be satisfied and expect both the Croatian government and the Ministry of Defence to do much more for employment and housing, with Croatian defenders not having the right to housing, but also to explain to their families, neighbours, friends that only Croatian military disabled persons have the right to do so, but in the housing of Croatian defenders there can be others through the system and put them in a more favourable position. As far as schooling is concerned, as far as the grant on the fund is concerned, I won't even talk about the trust fund. If there has to be an Erste bank, which is said to be an employee of your ministry, then can you explain to me if there is any suspicion of bribery and corruption? It's got to be the Erste bank. It doesn't have to be the Erste Bank, and that's why I resigned from the board of trustees. Obviously some things don't work out, I'm not saying the foundation doesn't work well. The Foundation has made excellent criteria, and if they respect them many defenders will benefit greatly from it, but unfortunately it benefits from dividends from the Defence Fund, not from the budget, and thus Croatian defenders who do not exercise the right under this Law, and that is the 80% I speak of and who receive wages and pay taxes will have the opportunity to use through the foundation, if God does not give them a difficult social situation and as we know there are more and more. I am pleased with the report, but I am also pleased with the policy and funding of the rights of Croatian defenders who are not Croatian military disabled, who are not members of the families of the dead. They need and can be led by much better and care and concern and government policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87202	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87203	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a colleague said, I can quote: "80% of Croatian defenders pay taxes, it fills the state budget, and then listens all day long or watch not know in the media stories against the Homeland War." That would be very good and true if it were two sentences. This is how it turns out in one sentence that Croatian defenders are filling the budget, and then the budget is financing stories against the Homeland War. It would be true if a colleague said the defenders paid for a TV subscription, and Croatian television then shows hired films against defenders and against the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87204	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Defence Minister and Intergenerational Solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here are a few more clarifications, but I think and here is one useful information after Mr. Jukic's discussion, representative Jukic, who is also chairman of the parent board. You mentioned stakes in the fund, here's the last session of the Management Board of the Fund we discussed and I have information. So one share, you said you didn't know what the amount was, one share is close to 700 kuna, so about 700 kuna. Now, we've been counting before, and I've asked the Secretary of State, Mr. Ivic, if I can bring it up as a data, so he has 33 shares as a Croatian defender, that's about 23 thousand kuna at this point for the families of the dead, the prisoners and the missing, you know, because they have the largest amount, so that's, say, 50 shares, that's about 37, 40 thousand kuna. But I note, of course, that is not final, because we in the Croatian Defence Fund are in 7% of the INA shares and 7% of the HT shares expect other shares, i.e. we expect shares after privatisation under the Privatisation Act as stated there under the privatisation laws of certain companies. As far as dividends are concerned, I wanted to repeat once again that we could only pay the dividend when the fund was actually founded, that is, when the property was transferred. And secondly, housing. I would just like to remind myself that the housing of Croatian defenders, i.e. Croatian wartime wartime disableds, and according to this law and according to previous laws is legally defined, means Croatian wartime wartime disableds, but also families of the dead, imprisoned and missing. And around Ersta Bank as a management company so there are no doubts left, I would like to say that the company for the management of the property and the Management Board of the Croatian Defence and Foundation Fund has chosen a management board in which repeat defenders have a majority. So nobody could impose anything on them or actually suggest how they decided and did, and I think it's absolutely transparent. And as for the criteria for the foundation, I have to say here's that the criteria we've been doing in support of the foundation, in the Ministry of Croatian Defence, means our lawyers, therefore I thank you if you consider these to be good criteria. They must be firm, they must not be deviated because of any possible abuse, but surely because money comes into the hands of those Croatian defenders who need it most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87206	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Kurt's.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87207	Madam Minister, as far as the foundation is concerned, we already have a situation because in 2007, the payment started. We have a situation where defenders get a refusal, that they have no right to scholarship their children without any reason, without any legal remedy, and that is unacceptable in that way that this foundation works. ... I have the answers, Madam Minister. People bring it to me. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I will, I'll get it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll get it for you and I'll get you other things. Without any reason, without any legal remedy, it's simply inadmissible today that this is happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87208	I don't understand what you're correcting and talking about two different things, about the trust and the fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87209	Mr. Vice President, I'm talking about the Croatian Defence Foundation that isn't... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87210	I'm asking that the "correction of an incorrect quote" institute not be abused. Let's move on. So we're moving on to an individual debate. The word has a respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87211	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Government. Here's the shortest introduction I'd say next. It is more than obvious that in the past few years the implementation of the new Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has been significantly improved and this is an important finding. A system of overall care for all categories of participants and victims of the Homeland War has been significantly improved and it is likely that we all agree after these discussions, one of the basic findings and one of the most important facts. The creation of a single register of Croatian defenders in 2005 achieved one of the basic preconditions of the Croatian Defence Fund, which at the end of 2005 had a value of 2 billion and 109 million to welcome December 2006 with the value of the 2 billion 945 million kuna fund, and this is also an important fact and finding. What I hold particularly important within this report and deserves a little more of our attention concerns the Law on a fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, as well as a few words about the Law on the Foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. First, a scholarship contest was launched in 2006. A total of 2872 scholarships were awarded to 1916 scholarships for secondary schools, 930 scholarships for colleges and 26 participations for postgraduate studies. It seems to me that this fact and the Law on a fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders is an important result of this ministry over the past period with all the resistances and all the opposition and misunderstandings that have occurred even within our academic community. Misunderstanding and resistance, where it was least expected, educated prominent academic people of this country who have unfortunately applied selective strictness to children of Croatian defenders and their scholarships instead of applying their selective academic strictness when it is necessary to improve the quality of work at the university through the production of doctorate, publishing of works, etc. but the main problem was about Croatian defenders' records, children of Croatian defenders to colleges. And that is why I think it is very important that the ministry insisted and was persistent and I believe it is very important that we do everything we can to ensure that this Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders is fully affirmed. The only legal form of affirmation of this project and this fund is related to the quality of good and responsible study and learning of all those who use these funds of this important Fund of the Croatian Defence Ministry. And that's why I'm holding and recommending that Madam Ministers that we may not be able to do it, or that you do it in cooperation with the Ministry of Science and Education one review, one review to see how these children study, what kind of help they need, etc., because their high grades, their high pass is the only real way of affirming this important institution, this important fund. And I think we'll do everything we can to make this important project fully affirmed. The second thing that I think is very important and deserves our attention between the many issues that we have discussed here concerns one of the most difficult problems facing Croatian defenders and is related to PTSDs. The most common diagnosis of a disabled defender is the post-traumatic stress disorder. And that's the problem that deserves me to say even more attention, even more effort. But not only the ministry but all other institutions and especially other Croatian government ministries, because the problem of the mental health of Croatian defenders is certainly very important and deserves attention. Because it's not just a problem of defending them as individuals. It's their family's problem. It's their children's problem. And that would, I'd say, that's the whole society's problem. The fact is that the problem of post-traumatic war syndrome or disorder was not known not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in the wider international scene. Just a few or ten years ago, Vietnamese veterans warned not only about some of their problems but I would say a lot more and health institutions and professional professions to find that as time passes, the problem becomes more difficult and more difficult. I think it was quite logical and the extension that was adopted because the appearance of these types of trauma is really unpredictable in every respect. County welfare centres play a very important role. However, the facts also warn about the severity of the problem. The number of interventions in 2006 was 41 thousand 137. What is important when you look at a brief analysis of this table is perhaps an uneven burden on individuals i.e. Permanently employed experts in relation to the number of interventions. So, for example. The Istrian county with one permanent employee had 688 interventions, and Vukovar-Srijemska and one employee had 4000 411 interventions. And in that sense, I think it would be logical to think that where the biggest problems are, where the largest number of interventions, where the number of users seeking psychosocial assistance is the largest, that there and the corresponding human resources are provided to ensure that this type of assistance is provided to the necessary extent. Certainly an important part of this psychosocial assistance related to and with regional centres for psychotraum and the Center for Crisis. The numbers are warning. Number of interventions 183 thousand 880. Given the character and nature of the disease, it is expected that these numbers will unfortunately be bigger and bigger in the future. And that is why the total engagement I would say to all institutions of the Croatian state headed by the Ministry of Defence but with the support of the Ministry of Health and the support of the Ministry of Science. Today, research in the field of psycho trauma is one of the key scientific problems of those dealing with this problem in the world. And I can say with pleasure here and finally, that a few years ago or a year and a half ago in the Republic of Croatia, we held a prominent international scientific gathering that financed NATO's scientific committee that I personally led and co-ordinated and which was personally opened by the vice-president of the Croatian Government. I will also say that the other day I spoke to the NATO Scientific Committee on some of the projects that we are conducting in the Republic of Croatia specifically at my university and whose head I am, has shown great interest in all that is done. And at 6 months, i.e. In June in Washington, at the world's largest meeting dealing with new methods in the treatment of trauma of this character, one of our scientific work will be presented among people who are, in any case, the greatest experts and who are making huge efforts to offer new solutions because pharmacotherapy unfortunately, with all its efforts does not offer the improvements that Croatian defenders expect. And here's the final line. She used to be in my presentations and initials. Slava, the rights of Croatian defenders are based on a basic fact that is related to the truth about the Homeland War. Unfortunately, even today as a number of years earlier, we see that it is not in an unacceptable and incomprehensible way in different interests, for various reasons it is being threatened. And that is why, in addition to all these problems and this problem as a society in general, we must give special attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87212	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kurt's.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87213	As for the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and their children, it is regrettable that only 2006 was the foundation of a fund, since it was the government's legal obligation since 1 January 2005. Since it is legal law, I find it illegal to consider a regulation that prescribes the recognition procedure, since the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act are also not respected. When selecting candidates, too much authority shall be given to the decision-making officer and the right to be dissatisfied with the regular legal remedy or administrative dispute or appeal shall be taken. And in 2006, the ministry paid 25 million 995 thousand kuna for the powerful judgments of illegal application of the '96 defence laws. A year. When Minister Njavro was that, did you know that Mr. Njavro with a 30% military disability did the same thing, sued the state?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87214	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87215	Regardless of any formal remarks, the Croatian Defence Fund as well as the Croatian Defence Child Scholarship Fund is certainly one of the projects I would say the most important, the best who deserves full attention and full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87216	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Petar Mlinarić. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. The word has a distinguished representative, Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87217	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Prime Minister and Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which has therefore been applied since 1.1.2005, the report is here for the second year of application of this law, with the total amount of costs by all rights, shows how the Republic of Croatia and how much care is given to Croatian defenders and members of their families. The total amount of 4 billion 789 million and is certainly so respectable, as impressive as the division of eighteen of the purposes described. In this debate, I would remain in the descriptions set out in the recapitulation of this report under regular numbers 11 to 14 and 18. These are relatively smaller amounts compared to others, but I think the topics are significant. Exhumation, identification and burial of Homeland War victims spent 6 million 686 thousand and so on. It has already been said countless times that the question of the fate of prisoners and missing persons during the Homeland War is one of the most significant humanitarian issues without exaggerating the most significant humanitarian issue in the Republic of Croatia. It is visible from the reports made by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, within which the Administration for Detained and Missing, and certainly also by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Committee for Detained and Missing, makes this problem a solution. It is also visible that certain data are expected and requested from neighbouring country representatives on the east side, which apparently goes slowly for only their known reasons. A thousand more 116 people are wanted according to the ministry's records, which only proves how much hard work will take to solve this problem in the future. Marking the place of mass graves spent a million and 914 thousand. The sites of mass graves are marked by setting one mention of the mark and four places were marked in 2006. And this confirms the previously stated claim of increasingly difficult finding the site of mass graves of victims of the Homeland War and even more difficult to find individual graves. The Memorial cemetery of the Homeland War victims in Vukovar is 2 million 728 thousand. Maybe start with the number of visitors in 2006 68 thousand 20. It is also seen that the largest number in November is also understandable because then it is the Day of Marking the Victim of Vukovar. It may be a concerned remark in the report on damages to the facility, the need to resolve them. And I have to say, I know this problem well, and I know that some designers have too good an opinion about their abilities by not wanting to consult with anyone, so then there's a situation that has happened. And to be clear, I don't intend to blame the former ministry and, of course, the present, but these are simply facts. After all, we heard in the opening statement that it was happening in the construction of apartments and that it was simple... In practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a bit of an honor to say to those who do, but it goes to their conscience. It is certainly to welcome that the offices of the Memorial cemetery are entrusted to the local company, so the Komunalcu d.o.o. Vukovar and that work is done with quality and correctness. Bury Croatian defenders with military honors 6 million and 500, almost 6 million 600. According to the law, the ministry carries the cost of transferring postmortem remains, the cost of funerals with military honors. Last year, it was twelve funerals after exhumation and identification and a thousand 304 dead HRVIs and Croatian defenders. That didn't have a number to worry about. He's certainly the result of the war. But I repeat, he's worried. The number of suicides is slightly lower than in 2005. Unfortunately, he's still tall. Co-operation with Homeland War Associations 17 and a half million. This kind of assistance to associations should certainly be welcomed, all of these are associations of victims in various ways and they deserve that attention. That is why it may need to be noted, or warned, of some inappropriate moves by some associations regarding the commercialisation of their activities. To be more specific, I consider it necessary to sell inappropriately as a souvenir of a country from Ovcara and to raise funds to maintain the Memorial of space in a hangar in Ovcara. This pearl of business, the pearl of the business spirit, has found us all in a certain way and has no surprise. I think that should be a concern, keeping that space should be the ministry's concern. I'm sure it'll be the ministry's concern in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87218	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Dear Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87219	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister and Vice-President of the Croatian Government. Well, here's a replica of what Mr. Stengl missed and that's something about the Croatian Defence Fund and the Croatian Defence Register. Since listening to today's debates, I would like to stress that I have noticed that Mr. Kurtov does not actually distinguish what the Croatian Defence Fund is, which is strictly to help the most socially endangered Croatian defenders and categories and that the Fund for the scholarship of children of the dead, disabled and Croatian defenders themselves is another category that is only for the scholarship of education and education. I would like to stress that today's debate, which I heard from those who were really against Croatian defenders, who have stripped them of their rights and you today who are sitting on the opposite side, are politically trying to show that this report is not credible that this law, which has been passed, is destabilising the system of care and care for Croatian defenders. It is simply lies that are repeatedly repeated and that have no basis. It is clear that in your mind you want to insinuate the Croatian public in the first place and talk to Croatian defenders, which you absolutely fail to achieve. You clearly talked about them being rights fighters. That they fought from County to Pantovich. That false people are disabled, as you called Mr. Dark Bestek, but you never announced that only an individual's administrative error caused him to be a man who lost a leg, to have the right to other people's help and care. No one's ever made any clear about it, and that's why I wanted to shed light on these cases of ignorance of what it really is. The Fund Act and the Act on [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The scholarship of Croatian defenders brought. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87220	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87221	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Djakic, I thank you for this supplement. In my introduction, I said that I would stay at certain points, and I tried to stick to it, however, all of these supplements, all of these discussions, in favour of Croatian defenders, and in favour of proving the rights of Croatian defenders, should not ultimately be avoided. And it takes them all the time, but it keeps repeating. That all those who are in some way deluded still get rid of these delusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87222	Thank you. We have one, one breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87223	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, colleague Stengl has not mentioned one word of me or my statement. And upon him, upon him in a replica. A colleague, Djakic, uses the situation to suit me. [[/Intruder: What's the article? I'm asking you an article that?]] If he thinks that... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87224	But don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. You did not specify an article... Replica is a broad term and then a colleague also spoke about the Croatian Defence Fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was referred to by the esteemed representative Djakic. And it's not about any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Replica, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87225	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, namely, the fate of missing and imprisoned persons is certainly very often spoken of as normal because families want to know where their loved ones have disappeared. However, it should be remembered that many of our defenders were taken to Serbian concentration camps and then lost every lead. It's hard for the government to succeed without the help of the neighbouring state to access the data, and we notice that they're bringing back a few of the people who are there, and I believe that she was murdered and not died. Next, we're talking about victims and making a mark. The victims in this war weren't just Croatian defenders. They were civilians. They were children, and it is true that they should be marked with dignity and dignity, but they should also set up monuments that are in harmony with this. Then the third is also mentioned suicide. The suicide is not specific to this war alone, but to all wars, regardless of what they do in their own territory. Here's the case of finally Vietnam where many American soldiers have made suicide because the consequences of the wars can be really scary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87226	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87227	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, it is perfectly understandable and understandable that families and all those who seek more of their missing from 1991, and even later years want to end their uncertainty. But the truth is, it goes so slowly and so hard that time goes away. I'm going to tell you an example and that story is that I say so often repeats. The town of Sotin, it is a suburban settlement near Vukovar. There's still 30 people out there and some people out there. There were, there were extremely many, lots of tips, claims that they were buried there or there. One location that was a configurational inexplicable reminder of Ovcar. She reminded me of the sheep and they didn't do anything unplanned. And that's what to say. Test excavations have been performed. It's been requested, it's been requested. It's not gonna happen. And these people haven't been found today. It's found here and there, one, two, but most of it hasn't been found today. So it's true that it's conjecture, but I think it's also true that the information has to come from the east side, so on the other side, because there's someone out there who knows it. You can't tell one man's missing, so I don't know where he is, where he's possibly buried. But there's so much mass that you just need to know. That one doesn't know, that's what "ix" people know.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87228	Thank you. Replicated representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the colleague is understandable in view of the area that is coming, Vukovar and Vukovar-Srijem County referred to exhumations and mass graves. Well indeed, it really is worth reminding here that at the memorial cemetery of the victims of the Homeland War in Vukovar means 786 victims were buried and that it was still in last year 23 after so many years, which have passed here in our county five more victims. But I'd talk about monuments here and I'd like to comment on that. Indeed, many associations of victims of the Homeland War have the desire and the need to raise monuments. Well, here I am also looking at the construction of a monument in the County that goes quite difficult, so it seems to me that public sensitization to problems and associations and monuments is getting a little quiet. I'd still be here with one number that really warns you this way that's the number of dead. The death toll of Croatian defenders in 2006. 1304. That's a really big number. And 76 people died in Vukovar-Srijem County. 76 people, so few years have passed since the dying war. Here, on many occasions, there was talk of suicide. It really needs to be discussed with extreme caution. However, some information needs to be provided. We see that in 2001 it was 130, 2002. 120, 2003. 138 or 388 in total. In order for that number to fall to 96 here in 2004 and thank God that's the case. 2005. 129 and 2006 119 or a total of 344. So for 44 people, however, less proves that the condition has stabilized after all. That with more sensitivity and more attention is observed in this very sensitive population. Here, I don't have any more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87230	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Lelic. Yes, the largest number of markings of mass graves in our county from which we both come. If you see this list of places so far marked 46, 14 is from the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. So, a lot. But at the same time, the largest number of these 116 is right out of our county. It just confirms what I said before, and even a huge job precedes us to find and to solve this terrible, terrible problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87232	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, in this morning's section, I would like to say a few more words about this particular problem that we have now discussed with the distinguished MPs regarding the need for the prisoners and the missing. So, about those still on the 2001 census, I'm sorry in 1991. So here's the latest information. We have done trial excavations in Vukovar-Srijemska and Osijek-Baranja County over the past 15 days. Four locations in Osijek-Baranja County found the body of a Croatian defender and has already been identified in Osijek. We worked at 14 locations in Vukovar-Srijemska, and we found five remains of death. They will be identified I hope at the most recent time in Osijek, of course through the DNA method. A single body was also found in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. However, we are still working on the Ovčara area in the wider area because there are serious indications that there may be another mass grave, unfortunately. But we have problems. I believe we'll resolve it. It's also working in the area actually two wells that are assumed to also be postmortem remains. And what's important is safe for all of you to be in the Marine area, so in the area where the breach was, we need to demine that area. That's exactly what we're doing, and we're assuming that we'll find remains there, too. And as a consequence, or as a result of the negotiations, we also took over the three bodies of Croatian defenders found in the Derventa area. So here's the latest data on the search for the prisoners and the missing. There were questions here about translation, about also the legal obligation under the 2005 law. Translation here is for you information in agreement of course with the Croatian Pension Insurance Office because it is a large and complex one. It starts next month, so it starts in May. Of course, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, that's understandable in itself. There were more words here, and I want to thank everyone for discussing the post-rheumatic stress disorder, which they discussed about our PSP centers, and I have to say that unfortunately we have cases that when we call a competition and we want to hire people extra so that no one actually answers. We'll make that clear until we're satisfied with the number. But here's what we're facing. We are also facing a failure to fulfil the legal obligation of some units of local administration and self-government that must also provide space for PSP centres under the law. Here, I will set an example for the great Zagreb where we have not yet solved the space for the PSP centre. It's done in non-conditional spaces. We appealed several times, insisted, asked the city to solve the problem. He is still not resolved, not to say that given the size of Zagreb we should actually have a few locations here, because it is not the same to travel from Dubrava to new Zagreb and vice versa or from Chernomerac etc. And as far as the scholarship fund is concerned, there's been a lot of debate here. Mr. Curtov wondered why the fund had only just begun its work, so I would like to remind myself that this obligation was also under the past law, so it was not fulfilled. So there is no obligation to scholarship the children of Croatian defenders. And as far as this payment is concerned, according to the lawsuits you've mentioned, they're payments for the '96 lawsuits. Mr. Representative, it's not true. That's the payment for the lawsuits in 2000, 2001. There are around 5,000 lawsuits filed by Croatian defenders for failure to comply with their legal obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87234	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87235	When the Vice President speaks of centres for psychosocial assistance, it turns out that only the City of Zagreb has not provided adequate space. We could list a whole series of counties that have also failed to provide adequate spaces, but it's not good that maybe it's just an apostrophe of a city where maybe HDZ isn't in power, I could tell you the whole series.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87236	Where is, where, please, correcting an incorrect quote. It wasn't the vice president who said it was just the City of Zagreb, but she said it among other things. Please don't! Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87237	But I will speak as I do not forbid you to talk whether or not he agreed with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87238	Please state the correction of the incorrect statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87239	Madam Vice President has admitted that this part of the system doesn't work because it turns out that people, professional people don't report to competitions that I'm just repeating what was the case before.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87240	Thank you. Resume session is at 15.00 hours. It is up to the distinguished representative Pero Kovacevic. It's a written application, too. We'll continue with the afternoon session. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87242	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Well, in my presentation, I will look at practical problems in the application and implementation of the current Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. I'm probably gonna start off with the lowest pension today that's been a lot of talk. Well, most of you probably remember those historical and anthological sentences: "Both of you, both of you, both of you, have fallen, both of you have fallen.". Here you see, one of these is Mr. Zeljko Mrčela, who was a member of the Croatian Army who crashed two of those JNA aircraft at the beginning of the aggression on Croatia in the area of Sibenik. Mr Zeljko Mrčela since January, 1.1.2005 aims to exercise the right to a minimum pension in accordance with Article 31. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. He wrote to me personally, he wrote to me in retirement, I wrote to the Ministry and to the interpretation of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the Ministry itself that these provisions apply only to those who retire when the law came into force, that does not apply to the period before 1.1.2005. Although that is not the case in the law anywhere, if the transitional and final provisions concerning the translation of such cases were to be seen, it should be resolved. If such cases happen, this is about a man whose sentences have entered history, anthology of the Homeland War. And so now he's fighting at this point to get 45% of that lowest pension. So either we will see it going through the transitional and finals or through a really small number of those and then demanding amendments and additions to the law, as the minister herself, who personally and my club is joining in order to extend this deadline to apply for recognition of the status of a Croatian military disabled. Because unfortunately today Croatian defenders have also appeared and have not applied for the time. Now with regard to these requirements, I must also warn of one fact even though it is now a different organisation of the ministry, since these first-degree offices are not part of the ministry but are part of state-run, county-level centres. Namely, there are certain areas, here they can speak specifically for the area of the second constituency, meaning where Daruvar and Chazma and Garesnica are concerned, there is a situation that many who have submitted their applications, meaning when the deadline was until 31.12.2005 today they are not invited to the first-degree medical committee. So this is a period of over a year waiting to be invited to a first-degree medical commission, meaning that it could be generally determined whether there is a degree of physical damage or there is no degree of physical damage. I think that in such or similar situations, the ministry should really take measures, because if the General Administration Act is known which deadlines are prescribed when the request is submitted. In the first degree, it must be resolved within 60 days. And it is necessary to take measures from the ministry's position to comply with the law and not wait that long. There's also a big problem with supplies. It's also the same situation. The solution to supply rights also has a first-degree system, second-degree after the ministry's audit, then has only legal power. That's worth the solution in a year. And after that, it must go into the same procedure again means checking the issues on the commissions of first-degree, second-degree and that property censorship, everything that belongs. There are situations that firstly, now I've, I've had a specific case of taking over a year of this procedure. And that's over a year so that man's already gone into a new procedure means next year, and he only gets a few days before that solution for the part that's already been over a year. And now the third problem is law enforcement. It refers to those Croatian wartime wartime invalids who have a status defined temporarily. And there's also a big empty space from when he had a solution to getting that solution back. It's going through the same period, even over 6.7 months. Because he should already be prepared and invited next month, given his first degree, not first - degree but temporary solution. And unfortunately that part is your problem. We also know that these problems are probably contained in the fact that at this point somewhere according to those data, but probably over 10,000 are new requirements awaiting resolution. Now that this part of more than 10,000 new requirements awaiting status resolution means that the status of a Croatian military disabled person has the status of a family of dead Croatian defenders, so it should be seen whether a temporary number of first-degree medical committees on one side will be increased or something will be done in the sense that this first-degree doctor of the commission is more often meeting and working, let them do the work until the job is done. Because it's still a big problem when people have been waiting for years and years. Therefore, due to the fact that these requirements on the one hand are for the determination of HRVI status, on the other hand, people at the same time apply for an assessment of the overall working ability to exercise their right to pension. But this is about the fact that if the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid is established, then it is easier and simpler course and procedure to exercise the right to retire. So these are the situations that are daily current for which I personally and my club have a lot of letters. Here I really have to say that the ministry really responds to any request from the club or my individual who I referred to the ministry the answer I got. That's where the situation has to be recognized. And now that you take that situation, here's the thing, there's been a lot of speeches today about the number of defenders and everything. I'll just remind you of the situation. Let's say December 31st, '99. the years according to official data from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, because they are the ones who determine the status of defenders, giving the status of the Ministry of Defence was 386 thousand, 386 thousand means 31.12.'99. A year. A fellow Pancic said that in 2003, there were 403 thousand. So that's where there's been an increase... 17 and now this final number is 489 thousand, and when you take in the press the data that's in the registers and the Chetniks even, we've had a few cases, I don't know how it could have happened at all that people who so well participated in the paramilitary units, Chetnic troops that there were a few cases that had the status of Croatian defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, there is clearly a need in that part of it that only the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior alone should do their part. And the big problem is that all the defenders are looking for, the vice president said that, we hope that it will be, that's this translation problem. So the translation problem, the law said, and came into force in 1.1.2005, that a translation would be carried out within 3 years. It is a big problem for those Croatian defenders who have a pension, but their pension is not included until today in that defence supplement, and they can't get a loan as such, because its smaller base is the future defence supplement has not been retired, and it will only be retired when it adopts such a pension solution. And there is also a big problem with the unemployed Croatian defenders. The problem is... Can't just solve the ministry, but let's say in the end of '99. The number was reduced to 19,000 and now we see again that it was 25 thousand, but that's the problem that happens all the time, I think even Pancic was 10,000 and 800 that was employed in 2003, '99. 15 thousand were even employed, but another problem is that, some are employed, but others are left out of work, that's the constant problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Work 10 grand, you see, but on the other hand, sign up again 12 grand because people are converting and privatizing, otherwise it means one gets a job, the other loses it, and so I think that these measures should be better designed. I'm running out of time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87243	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think that fellow Pero Kovacevic well absorbed this one of the biggest problems, and this was the long-term duration of the proceedings, therefore the administrative part or the judicial one that comes before the Administrative Court, and I think that it should therefore draw attention to this fact that the administrative proceedings themselves before the Administrative Court, i.e. the procedure before the Administrative Court, is taking place for a long time, but most often as far as I have knowledge and what my colleague Kovacevic is talking about and respects their claims against such solutions of various, and also of the status, is now very current Croatian military, Croatian wartime, Croatian military disabled, however, and after that, the longevity of the re-trial process follows. So what should we do? So, if the Administrative Court has abolished, so that the Ministry is spotlessly giving priority to even such cases as soon as possible, but perhaps here's our joint effort, we'll see, and we can also make it a conclusion that the ministry, that one conclusion to the Ministry of Justice, is that it has the right to give, draw attention to, or an indication to the Administrative Court that these cases have the advantage of resolving. I think it's really a matter of urgency because the most disturbing of defenders is this one uncertainty, and this recent case in Zadar is due to the unresolved, or status that leads them to disappointment, so once that story should end and the length of the procedure further traumatises them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87245	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87246	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you're right about this part because basically the administrative dispute lasts for about 4 years, and then the situation happens to you for 4 years, and even over 4 years, you're in a situation where the ruling of the Administrative Court is to respect the lawsuit, for example, in terms of retirement and then re-retirement. I have a case where after that a man waited 7 years in total, then the ministry just reacted and that's the part of the wait, 7 years waiting, not to talk about cases where there are lawyers in regular courts that they got an illegal job contract cancellation and those disputes should have a championship, but they're stalling with complaints, so the second-degree court goes back to first-degree proceedings. So we have a few cases of people who got from the INA, there are 20 that have already been slow since 2001, and here to this day is not the end of the dispute. So this is the year 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87247	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87248	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which is in itself specific because care for the rights of defenders and victims of the Homeland War is particularly important for the second year since the law was passed, because of the insight into the exercise of certain rights of that category of defenders. Of course, there were those who raised some suspicions that the rights were incompatible with the possibilities of the state and that these rights would not be consummated and that all possible rights provided for by the Law on Croatian Defence would not be possible. For this reason, this report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families was awaited for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2006. The report has been thoroughly drawn up, and most importantly, the report shows a number of improvements adopted by the new law both according to the Homeland War defenders and the defenders of the Croatian Council of Defence in relation to the resolution of pension rights, health protection in accordance with the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation on the rights of victims. In 2006 4 billion and 789 million were allocated to the law on the rights of Croatian defenders, which is more than 625 million kuna compared to 2005. Also in the 2007 budget, 496 million kuna was provided more than in 2006. The report shows the exercise of certain rights, and I will mention only a few. It is particularly important to highlight a programme of professional training and employment of unemployed defenders aimed at professional training and self-employment, lending, cooperative development and promotion of entrepreneurial projects resulting in the employment of a larger number of defenders. To this end, a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the change in the terms of lending that were made in 1999 and 2000, extending the credit to 20 years by consumers with the status of Croatian defenders, reprogramming the amount of claims, and tightening interest are being written off. I would also like to emphasise my satisfaction that in an appropriate way the rights of 100% Croatian military disabled persons from car assignment are exercised, including by resolving the status of car repairers until the opening of the hyperbaric chamber and the arrangement of apartments for 100% disabled persons and their escort to the hotel... in Split. [[You don't understand.]] Many defenders of age would be without any income if the law did not provide for the payment of the lowest pension of 1.864.00 kuna, which is a major improvement compared to the previous law. I would especially like to stress for all defenders the importance of forming the Croatian Defence Fund and the Croatian Defence Foundation and members of their families. A lot has already been said about this point, so here I will shorten my debate and say that the implementation of the Law on Croatian Defence is unquestionable and that it is realistic. That consistent application has improved the material receipts of all groups of victims from the Homeland War as well as defenders who exercise the rights of the law. In particular, more members of the Croatian Army and the Ministry of Interior who retire on different grounds can be highlighted, and pensions come under more favourable conditions under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families. There is a shift in relation to the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and Associations of Homeland War, both at national level and towards lower level associations, so that we can say that this relationship is more partnered with respect both on the one hand and on the other, which shows enough that the adoption of this law was necessary and that it was justified. This report of course I will support and expect to receive the support of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87249	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. This report on the implementation of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War is systematically transparent and comprehensive and I will refer only to certain segments of it. But before that, I would also refer to the most important parts of the law on Croatian defenders, which is the right to an age pension that we have pointed out several times, and I think it is really an important right for all those who do not, so men at 65 years old and women from 60 don't exercise the right to pension insurance to have that minimum pension, which is 45% of the average net salary of employees in Croatia, which would now be around 2,000 and 100 to 2,000 and 200. Of course, that's where this retirement pension is important, where it's increased by 10 to 30% depending on the length of time in the Homeland War. It's important because our people are sick and wounded are taken care of, but those who were lucky they weren't, they haven't had any rights on that basis so far, and that's why I find this very important. Because here, today we mentioned this data, and it's very interesting that we still have over 60,000 pensioners from World War II, while the number of pensioners from the Homeland War is just over 40,000. We also mentioned the establishment of the Croatian Defence Fund, which I find extremely important. Here, however, we can see only that the value of the fund increased significantly from 2 billion and 109 million at the end of 2005 is now at the end of 2006. 2 billion and 945 million. Therefore, we have seen the clarifications of the Deputy Prime Minister that such a single point, meaning about 7 thousand kuna, does not mean that what we can buy for it is a few inches as it was intended to be pointed out. But it is important to say here that we should actually stimulate the defenders and encourage them not to sell their stakes in the fund, that these values will certainly grow further because we have experience with all those returnees of ours who received the stocks that soon sold them, and those who were wise and preserved today have significant security and incomes every year, I have heard it from many of them. I would now refer to this disability review, that often someone can point out that it's a fake disabled person, that the right to do so no longer changes, and here in each report we read that these audits are done and that the grades change. So we see that during 2006, 8 thousand and 735 items arrived, and 7000 and 273 were revised. We see that the Committee did not agree with the assessment of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in 58 cases and 0.8%, but this information is more important, that it did not agree with the cause of disability. With the cause of disability in 2 000 and 211 cases or 30.4 means those who are subject to an audit. And out of these 2,000 and 011, 470 cases mean where the disease was found to be not a consequence of defending the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. It means that these assessments that have been carried out are constantly subject to audits and that irregularities if they exist can always be corrected. But it is important here to stress that of these items that arrived for the revision that 77.66% was caused by post-traumatic stress disorder. That's how I remember the 2004 and 2005 reports. It's always been a leading diagnosis. While it's interesting for me too, it's also a wound, where we think it should be represented significantly that it was only 209 cases and 2,92. So, it's still dominated by post-traumatic stress disorder, which is given the distance from war for now and to expect. I'd also refer to the disabled defenders where we see that the percentage of the hundred percent disabled and the help of the other person has 458, that it's another 370 100%. And fortunately, these 50 mean lower physical damage, which you might say is one easier category, that's 86%, which certainly gives for good. Here, in Vukovar-Srijem County, there are about 3,000 and 496, which is a really significant number. We have seen, I have pointed out here and in the replica, but certainly there is one important piece of information that means and, unfortunately, the death of Croatian defenders and to a considerable extent. In the last year, there were a thousand 304, of which 119 were suicides. Here this morning we tried to bid who better protects the rights or some tried to bid who better protects the rights of Croatian defenders? So this information is also taken, which certainly needs to be prevented and destimulated. So we see that in 2001 there were 130 in 2002. 120, 2003. In 138, the number began to decrease, and in 2004 it was 96. 2005. 129 and 2006 119, which for 44 means less than in the last three years. But here it certainly is for these... diseases and other circumstances that can affect this, because people feel that given what they've given and what they've invested in, in return they often feel they're getting a little bit, so certainly what's pointed out about one-time assistance, I think that they can play an important role when they get into trouble, when they don't know where they're going and when it can be an incentive for such a bitter act, that then it can certainly help. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's certainly a trust. So all of this can help make these cases less and less. Certainly this psycho social aid that has now been modified, which has become both more representative and more effective. There are certainly the Associations of Defences, and I can certainly contribute to that. The debate also highlighted the number of Croatian defenders and that the number is quite large. I would like to say here and thank everyone who helped solve a painful issue that was in the County and the County of Posavina, which are the natives who first took the rifles, who actually obtained and ammunition themselves and who had manual weapons, who entered the defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, that they are now 400 and something, that they have gained the status of Croatian defender. But here I hear there's about 200 left that status hasn't been solved yet. I expect it'll work out in the future. I particularly consider it important besides these measures, which we have stated, that it is certainly important to hire Croatian defenders. We see that there are a number of these stimulating measures. I personally believe that this establishment of defence cooperatives, that perhaps for them is the most acceptable and long-term solution. These all encouraging measures are taken by employers, and when that measure expires, then I'm afraid that's when such a defender is fired. And often, they may not pay him the rights they were supposed to receive and that they actually got from the state. So it's good for these cooperatives to have more and more, to have 120. I think that's where they best find themselves and the best mental and physical feelings. And here, I'm also glad that there are such cooperatives in our County Posavina. And we see here that's been assisted in last year that there's a fruit company in... where really unemployment is high and certainly that such cooperatives should be more and more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can see that the money the minister was supposed to say about self-employment, that they weren't used enough. So they certainly need all the support and education they need in order to get themselves into employment and all that together. So here, I say hiring alongside housing and everyone else is certainly one of the priority issues that needs to be further encouraged in every respect. And I think that for Croatian defenders with this law and with government and ministry policy, a lot has really been done. For such a sensitive population, however, it is never enough and we certainly need to make sure that all measures are implemented effectively in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87251	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87252	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to start my discussion with a number of questions, and mostly I'll just stay on housing, so on loans and flats. Because I asked my question in writing and to the Minister where I was asked to be provided with a list of the resident defenders, the disabled Homeland War classed according to the degree of disability and the place they took on the list of priorities? In response I got this, that they were not able to deliver due to the short deadline for giving an answer means 30 days, that they were not able to give me the same list, because that would require all cases to be searched and to say who got everything and with what degree of disability and what places they took on the championship list. Why did I ask that question? Because the question is, are you working on the championship list? The law defined how to create a list of championships, and the law said how one can even get on the championship list and what place it takes. However, by a regulation, the Minister derogates the law and says: "According to the established order on the list of the National War championships, due to exceptional circumstances, I can make a proposal to the housing commission to decide on the award of a housing loan to the person referred to in Article 5 of this Regulation.". That means that list of championships is automatically shutting down. And now I'm just gonna ask questions. And I'm gonna have to do that to the secretary of state. So I'm asking if those defense attorneys who were supposed to get apartments were getting apartments according to the championship list? Because is it true that the defender in Vrbovac got an apartment of 100 square meters with 30% disability? Is it true that another defender in Vrbovac got a 126 square-square apartment with a temporary status with 40% disability? Is it true that in Long Reza, the defense attorney got 20% of the 80-metre-square apartment? Is it true that in Slavonski Brod, three apartments were assigned to the disabled of 20% and they don't even have a residence in the Republic of Croatia? And I know well there are those in the ship with 40% defenders. Is it true that the price of the apartment is calculated from what you stated in the report, that the price of the apartment is almost 2,000 euros per square metre? Because if you take apartments on average to cost 800 thousand kuna and on average 60 square meters, that means that the price is about 2,000 euros. And if it is known by law that land prices, land preparation, municipal infrastructure, all connections, water, electricity, gas and phone are included in this and what makes up 30% of the price, is it true that each apartment per square meter costs 2 thousand 600 euros? Then, in a report on page 33, you say this: "Completion and handover of the building is planned during 2007 except for the location Kaštel 2008.". And you say, "The value of contracted works of residential buildings in construction is 146 million 250 thousand" etc. "and the remaining outstanding value per contract total for construction sites is 75 million." And then you list those same locations in the table and you say that there are 311 and that their agreed value is 152 million and something else, it's a little black, so it's less visible. Where do we get $5 million more? On the same page, you write two completely different data. If only you'd compared the data, you'd have written the same thing. Then, buying finished flats and high-completion apartments for the victims of the Homeland War. I'm curious and I'm asking how much is a square meter? Because if the eye is calculated and the average apartment is 60 square meters, and it's not, on average, less than 50, it's about a thousand and 454 euros per square meter. Is that so or isn't it? Because I wonder if the apartment in Sinj can cost the same as in Zagreb? I believe that this price of 454 euros does not fit anyway. Then I ask, for all of this, the minister needed and could, in fact, not have appointed a housing commission, an expert commission, and all of this could have been done by the supervisory board, so I ask who are members of the housing commission, who are members of the expert commission and who are members of the supervisory commission if they exist at all. And then, as far as the loans here are concerned, it's also stated which funds are at 71 million and are said to have gotten 480. I'm also wondering if it went on the championship list because there are those who have 20 percent skipped many that couldn't skip. Those are the questions I'd like you to answer right now, but I don't think I'll get the answer. I'm going to turn all these questions into written questions and hopefully get concrete answers and I'm also going to ask for a list of championships for this year so that those on that list know they're coming up next.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87253	Thank you. State Secretary of the Ministry Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87254	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here, I will try to answer some of these questions asked by Parliamentarian Kapraljevic. However, I must repeat what Mr Kovacevic, a parliamentary representative, said earlier in his presentation to all the enquiries directed by parliamentary representatives to get an answer neatly. So there's no problem that in writing and in writing, you can address the ministry and then you can get far more precise answers than maybe I can answer some of these questions now, but of course I'll answer them. Of course, the ministry works on the living list and respects it and, yes, when it comes to granting apartments and when it comes to granting housing loans to take care of that list of course. After all, every year the ministry's work is controlled by the State Audit, and among other things it controls the part. And you've heard that over the past three years, this ministry has received a three-fold unconditional opinion of the State Audit. As for the price of the apartment, which Mr. MP mentions of 2 thousand euros, it is possible even at certain facilities and this price of square meter, but should be taken into account the fact that we have often pointed out here in the Assembly that we were not satisfied with the quality of the apartments built for Croatian defenders. That we weren't satisfied with the deadlines in which these apartments were supposed to be completed, and they weren't finished, so we had cases that we shared apartments here in Zagreb last year that started construction somewhere in 1996, in 1997, and it all naturally affected the price of apartments. So it is possible even that price but what should be pointed out here is that when the apartments are sold to Croatian defenders that the price of a square meter is 700 EUR and that it is reduced by the percentage of disability. In addition, the government has adopted a regulation that reduces housing prices in towns below 20,000 inhabitants by an additional 30%. When it comes to buying apartments on the market and this amount that you mentioned from 1400 EUR per square metre, these apartments were purchased naturally on the market at market price and this may be about some average price. The apartments were bought in smaller places for 1,000 and below EUR 1000, but in larger cities, the price was significantly higher, so it was close to EUR 2000, so this could be about an average price if you calculated it that way. When it comes to housing loans used to improve housing conditions, upgrades and the same is the principle of granting housing loans. So the census is respected, and what should also be particularly stressed is that the square of the apartment received by HRVI does not depend on the percentage of disability, so it does not affect at all whether someone is 30 or 70% disabled which I think is quite and understandable but affects the number of family members. So the square of the apartment is obtained by the numbers of the family. Here I think I've answered everything except this. We can deliver this on a written inquiry regarding members of the housing commission. And finally, let me just say that all professional affairs and building facilities for the needs of the victims of the Homeland War are run by the Department of Construction. So it conducts the whole procedure. He runs the apartment building process himself. And the Croatian Defence Department gets ready-made apartments and then spends the assignment of those apartments to the victims of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87255	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87256	You said you answered all of my questions. You didn't answer my question when I asked if there were those who skipped the championship list in these 124 assigned apartments?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87257	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87258	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I will take a brief look at the report on the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families during the period from 1 January to 31 December 2006. The law, which entered into force on 1 January 2005, yielded many results. Today we talked about them individually, and I spoke on behalf of the Committee, so I will not repeat myself, but from this report I will refer to a special item that personally plays a major role in the future of Croatian defenders, which is the employment of Croatian defenders. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law stipulates that the authorities of the state administration and the authorities of the judicial authority and other state bodies, units of local and regional, regional self-government public service funds and legal persons owned or principally owned by the Republic of Croatia are obliged to give priority to the unemployed in the employment of officials and subsistence. Normally, if it meets the required conditions in the competition or advert, in the following order. The child of the mortally injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War without both parents, the Croatian wartime wartime invalid from the Homeland War, the family member of the mortally injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War, a volunteer from the Homeland War and an unemployed Croatian defender. If all of these Croatian institutions were to adhere to this, the number of unemployed Croatian defenders would be lower. But yet there are results, so I, I underline them, I will bring them out one more time and thus support this report on the rights of Croatian defenders who, some of us, deny it is not true. Or read it the way it suits them. During the period from January 1st to December 31st 2006, an average of 24 thousand 721 unemployed Croatian defenders, 42 unemployed Croatian defenders used the right to cash compensation on the basis of which 531 thousand and 922 thousand kuna were paid. But one colleague stopped at this point, and I'll move on. At the same time, 9,000 and 805 unemployed Croatian defenders were employed during that period. That's how this report is read as I said to individuals. During measure 4 of the annual employment promotion plan for 2006, 203 Croatian defenders were paid the circus 6 and a half million kunas. From 23 March 2006 to 31 December 2006, the employment of 268 persons from the target group, of which 203 or 76% of unemployed Croatian defenders, was co-financed. However, regarding the unemployment or employment of Croatian defenders, I, in particular, underlined in this report professional training for the unknown employer, employment measures, small and medium entrepreneurship lending, and in particular the promotion of the establishment of Croatian defenders' cooperatives that have really contributed to a major deterioration in the standards of Croatian defenders' lives. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity provides monetary and other support for the establishment of cooperatives as a special form of small entrepreneurship that enables organised and professional management and implementation of activities, and joint market performance. The Ministry is funding and coordinating which is of great importance, so I will present a promotion of cooperativeism, education of Croatian defenders for entrepreneurship and cooperatives, coordination between existing cooperatives, assistance in establishing new cooperatives. The use of financial support is concluded by a contract on the use of monetary support for the establishment of Croatian defence cooperatives between the ministry and the cooperative to which the ministry is obliged to pay off the association's one-time cash support of 150 thousand kuna. The cooperative undertakes to develop its activities in accordance with business law, and the appropriations used for the purchase of information equipment and marketing, the purchase of machinery, the purchase of agricultural land, the purchase of initial herd, the purchase of seeds and the education of cooperatives, etc. etc. However, if that were not the case then it would not have happened in 2006, 120 Croatian defence cooperatives were registered, and they are in areas of special state concern, so I will present the following places. It is “Rika” Rijeka, “Kadulja” Zadar, “Ladimirevci”, “Dežanovac”, “Brazine”, “Gornji Bogićevci”, “Gornji Bogićevci”, “Mirna Luka” Stoton, “Tresna” Senj, “Branjek” Đakovo, “Ponjski Brnjevac”, “Grazd, “Budjanka”, “Darda”, “Sveti Jantol”, “Glina”, “Sava” Jasenovac, “Atar”, “Rokovi”, “Rokovik” Sisak, “Seme” Panj, “Art of Life” Slavonski Brod, “Golden Gardens” Virovitica, “Braznički Hum”, “Braznik Hum”, “Eko bljestavljak”, “Belika” “Bravica” “Bravica” “Bravica” “Bravica” “Bravica” “Bravica” “Bravica” “Bravica” “Bravica” “Bravica”““““. In the hope that the current invitation to tender opened by the Ministry will bear fruit and that in the next report I will read and that what we want will happen in the area of Imotska krajina, and we have every prerequisite to establish a cooperative with the help of the Croatian Defence Ministry. All cooperatives, wherever I came into contact with individuals, boasted, expressed their satisfaction in this way of hiring Croatian defenders. Finally, I will take a brief look at the rights of Croatian defenders, members of the Croatian Defence Council, as has been said today that this report is not said much, that it is hidden from the Croatian public. Why should it hide from the Croatian public? If the ministry, or the Republic of Croatia, has concluded an agreement with the Federation of BiH or the agreement entered into force in the first part of 2006, in the second part of 2007. And the third part will cover 2008. He is in implementation and we will fulfil our obligations to the members of the Croatian Defence Council and this is one of the most important priorities in addition to all this that has been presented in the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. I am happy to accept it in the hope that it will cover much more in the next report, and in particular there will be a small number of unemployed Croatian defenders. When Croatian defenders are employed, they will be able to take care of themselves, their family and earn their own home, a roof over their heads as they could defend the Republic of Croatia and Croatian hearths in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87259	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87260	The addition of the agenda has been established because there is no objection to the other points' proposal. We're going to the vote. Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2006. I am giving the vote the following conclusion: The report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2006 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 81 votes for, 15 abstentions and 3 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87261	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. - Proposal of the Attorney General's Law for disabled persons, first reading of P.Z. No. 648; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Since the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, work, social policy and health and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary at the defence ministry Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87262	Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. In the Republic of Croatia, the need to protect the rights and interests of persons with disabilities is highlighted in Article 52(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, where it is prescribed that the care of the states is devoted to the protection of disabled persons and their inclusion in social life. The protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and the provision of equal opportunities policy for persons with disabilities is closely linked to documents of the United Nations, of the Council of Europe and of the European Union which establish the current areas of action with their content and recommend in the application of their national policies and principles. The topics for the introduction of the Ombudsman Institute for Persons with Disabilities in the Republic of Croatia are standard rules for equating opportunities for persons with disabilities, the Council of Europe Action Plan for the Promotion of Rights and Full Participation in the Society of Persons with Disabilities, the improvement of the quality of life of persons with disabilities in Europe 2006. In 2015 and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations, signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Mrs Jadranka Kosor on 30 March 2007. So this year. Government through state administration bodies, and in cooperation with units of local and regional, regional self-government, associations of persons with disabilities and associations acting programically for the benefit of persons with disabilities, encourages, monitors and financial support and develops programmes for the implementation of standard rules in society. So we can stress that the government means one piece of information from 2004 to 2007 for projects of persons with disabilities, means that the Ministry of Family, the Domitary Ministry means family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity allocated the total amount of 42 million 486 thousand 937 kuna and 74 June. Furthermore, the project is under way to introduce a personal assistant institute for people with the most difficult type and degree of disability, with the introduction and provision of a personal assistant for 78 people with the most difficult type and degree of disability in 2006, and in this year, a personal assistant for 176 users was provided in 2007, and a total of 12 million 894 thousand 359 kuna and 35 limes have been spent for this purpose. The funds of 500 thousand kuna are provided for the adjustment of textbooks and mobile teams for blind and undersighted children who are involved in the regular education system. A continuous programme of education and counselling for the self-employment of deaf women is being conducted, a festival of equal opportunities for different categories of people with disabilities is being held, encouraged and financially supported by various mobility programmes and additional education of persons, young people with disabilities. A programme of systematic psychosocial support for children who care for parents with disabilities was also built and a pilot project was launched by the Centre for Rehabilitation of the Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation of the University of Zagreb. In order to increase awareness of the rights, needs, potential and contribution of persons with disabilities, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a National Programme to improve the quality of life and life of persons with disabilities in '99. The National Single Policy Strategy for people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006, and in the final phase, what needs to be emphasized will now go to the Government is the National Strategy for Equalising opportunities for persons with disabilities from 2007 to 2015 whose aim is to act towards improving independence, freedom of choice and the quality of life of persons with disabilities. Now a little bit about the law. The proposal of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities shall regulate the work, mode of work and the conditions for the appointment and resolution of the Advocates and Deputy Advocates for Persons with Disabilities. Thus, the Ombudsman protects, monitors and promotes the rights and interests of persons with disabilities under the law and the Constitution. Furthermore, it monitors the compliance of laws and regulations, monitors the enforcement of obligations arising from international documents, monitors the application of national strategy policies and programmes of the Republic of Croatia relating to the protection of the rights and interests of persons with disabilities. It concerns the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons with disabilities, and the suppression of all forms of discrimination caused by disability. It discusses cases of violations of the right of disabled persons and of this report to the public. It advocates the protection and promotion of the rights and interests of persons with disabilities. It proposes and takes measures aimed at improving the quality of life of people with disabilities and their families. And he performs other tasks and affairs in a manner determined by law. It's still listed here what government bodies need to do. So they are obliged to submit draft draft laws to the Advocate General. The Advocate shall provide advisory assistance to persons with disabilities and shall cooperate with associations of persons with disabilities and associations who act programically in favour of persons with disabilities. The Advocate shall be empowered to warn, propose, inform, and provide information to improve the situation of persons with disabilities to the competent authorities, legal and natural persons and to require, which is very important, reports of the measures taken. The competent authorities of legal and natural persons shall be obliged to cooperate with the Advocate, to submit reports and to ensure the availability and insight of all data. The Advocate has the right to access the premises and to see how people with disabilities are cared for. The Advocate may not be called on to be held or punished for an opinion expressed and taken in the course of his or her work, unless it is a criminal offence. The Ombudsman shall report to the Croatian Parliament once a year on his work and shall also have the right to submit specific reports when it assesses the necessary. The funds, which is very important, will also be provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the work of the Advocates and his deputies and will be employed by a total of 9 employees, of which 7 high-level professional staff and 2 mid-professional staff. For the application of the law, the total cca should be provided. About two and a half million kunas a year. The protection of the rights of persons with disabilities has been developed through a series of regulations and many authorities of the state administration are in charge of their implementation. For this reason, the establishment of an Ombudsman institute that would have a co-ordinated, supervisory and advisory role in the national system would improve the quality of life of persons with disabilities, ensure the promotion of their rights, enable them to participate actively in society and carry out systematic sensitisation for their problems. The establishment of a Ombudsman for people with disabilities would also be an inclusion in international trends in the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, ensuring equal opportunities and controlling the application of international legal obligations in this area. As the population, and you know it yourself, a person with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia has grown and this has clearly grown high and justified requirements for improving the legal and real position of persons with disabilities in society. In the long term, it is expected that the establishment of the Ombudsman's Institute for Persons with Disabilities will contribute to improving their position in society and better and more effective protection of their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87263	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm sorry, correcting the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I only see you for the first time, so I'm sorry to have to correct you right now. There's no such thing as a personal assistant. It is at the level of the pilot project and is done through civil society, that is, through an NGO. So we can't talk about the personal assistant system. Also, the National Strategy was not implemented from 2003 to 2006 and we cannot talk about the implementation of the National Strategy but only its partial implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87265	Thank you. ... work, social policy and health care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87266	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 71st session of the Committee held on 27 March 2007 discussed the proposal for a Law on Advocates for Persons with Disabilities submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 16 March 2007. The Committee discussed the proposal as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The establishment of the Ombudsman's Institute for Persons with Disabilities is a continuation of all efforts to protect the rights and interests of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia's opinion is members of the Committee. The national programme for improving the quality of life of disabled persons, the National Single Policy Strategy for people with disabilities from 2003 to 2006, as well as a series of rules based on these programmes and strategies protects the rights of persons with disabilities, and many authorities of the state administration are responsible for their implementation. The Institute of Advocates for Persons with Disabilities, according to the Committee members, will contribute to improving independence, freedom of choice and quality of life. It is also highlighted by the Ombudsman's action to promote the rights of disabled persons, and their active participation in society will be possible. And as a very important fact to implement systematic sensitisation for their problems. During the debate, the opinion was expressed that a future need to consider uniting jobs related to existing lawyers in the Ombudsman's Office with assistants specialised in individual areas. After a brief discussion, board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption of the next conclusion. Under 1) the draft law on the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities in the text is adopted as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and under 2) All objections, proposals and opinions highlighted during the first reading will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87267	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Lucia Cikes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87268	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. At the beginning of this presentation, I will stress that the Croatian Democratic Community club is pleased to support the draft law on the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities who came to our desks in the first reading. The need to protect the rights and interests of persons with disabilities as a special vulnerabilities group is also highlighted in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where the necessary protection of those as well as their inclusion in social life is highlighted. A person with disabilities has everywhere in the world and at every level of every society. The number of people with disabilities in the world is growing, as is the case in the Republic of Croatia. And within 4.5 million residents as much as in the Republic of Croatia, 429 thousand and 421 people are disabled. Of that, 245,000 897 men and 183 thousand 524 women are. These figures, and you see themselves not small, include persons with birth disability, include persons with World War II disability, persons with disabilities from the Homeland War, who is not a small number. There are also disabled workers who are indeed an impressive number, more than 100,000 as well as those with disabilities where disability is due to the disease. People with disabilities are included as a result of traffic accidents. I'd also have to explain why we're talking about a disabled person here and we don't use a different expression. In this way, he would like to emphasise that the trait of disability does not apply to the whole person. A person with disabilities is any person who, due to physical or mental impairment of the temporary or permanent, past, present or future, born or acquired under the influence of any cause, loses or deviates from the expected physical and physiological structure and is limited or insufficient to perform activities in a manner and scope considered common to people in a particular environment. So the term disability is a common term for a large number of different functional restrictions that occur in each population, which means both girls and boys and women and men can be disabled by physical, intellectual, sensory and health or mental illness. Of course, everything must be done to ensure that the number of people with disabilities does not increase. This means, above all, to make effective and universal primary prevention and to prevent physical, intellectual, psychological and sensory damage. And if damage has already occurred then, surely, secondary prevention should do everything possible to ensure that the damage does not cause permanent functional damage and disability. In all this, the Ombudsman for people with disabilities must take care of the rehabilitation, which is a very effective process and aims to enable people with disabilities to achieve and maintain optimal physical, intellectual, psychological and social functional levels and to bring these changes in the direction of greater loneliness in life. In this way, the handicap, i.e. the loss or restriction of the possibility of participation in the life of the community, would be reduced equally with the rest. All laws and regulations relating to persons with disabilities are based on standard rules on equalising opportunities for persons with disabilities adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on the 48th session of 20 December 1993 and impose an obligation to equalise the opportunities of persons with disabilities against other citizens. The basis of all these standards and rules are: 1) equating opportunities, 2) the principle of equal rights, 3) persons with disabilities are members of society and have the right to remain and live in a society where 4 remain and 4) persons with disabilities should have equal rights that we often ignore today, but no matter how advanced society is, no matter what they invest in their disabled and need, they are not guided by greater obligations. A person with disabilities has rights and freedoms stemming from the Constitution, laws, regulations, and also declarations that we have brought in this House, regardless of race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political and other convictions, national and social origins of property, birth, education, social status or other features without discrimination. It is evident from the fact that the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities has been developed by a series of regulations and their implementation is under the authority of a number of state bodies. And this government recognized the need to set up the Ombudsman's Institute for Persons with Disabilities and set up a working group in October 2004 to draft a law on the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. This institution is necessary and would play a co-ordination, supervisory and advisory role in the national system. The work of this institute would improve the quality of life of people with disabilities, ensure and promote their rights. It would also help to establish standard rules on equalising opportunities for disabled persons and to improve the ethics of non-application of these standards and to monitor the successful application of those standards. The Ombudsman shall disclose the interference and propose appropriate measures to contribute to the successful application of the standard. Of course, the monitoring mechanism will take care of the economic, social and cultural characteristics of the society in which we live. The advisory role of the rights of defender is a very important element. It must provide advisory services and exchange of experience of information in both country and country. The bill is well-regulated and the choice of attorneys as well as his two deputies. The Ombudsman can only be a Croatian citizen who has completed a graduate university study, 10 years of work experience and who, with his work and pawnage, recognises as a person who will protect and promote the rights of persons with disabilities. Of course, it is necessary for his work to be independent and independent and based on justice and morality, and it is good that the bill also highlights this moral component in the work of the Advocates. This component is always desirable, and it is primarily desirable when it comes to target groups such as women, such as youth, such as people with disabilities. The Croatian Democratic Community's club holds that this is another major step by government, as well as by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity in protecting those who are most important in order to protect them, respect their personal, human dignity and their desire to become full-fledged members of the community in which they live. Therefore, once again, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposal to adopt this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87269	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87270	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sorry we don't have the same opportunities, so I can't speak from that pay phone the same way as my other colleagues do when they speak on behalf of the club. So when we talk about equal opportunities, then we should just promote that right and provide the same right to me as to all of you when you speak for the club. But it's said and I don't know how many miles it starts with the first step. The draft Law on Ombudsmans for disabled persons should otherwise be on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament several years ago as foreseen by the national strategy from 2003 to 2006. However, many of the measures in this strategy have not been implemented, and the new ones are still under construction, so I am not surprised by this delay. It does not hold water that the national strategy has not been adopted because the signing of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has been pending. There was dust in the eyes by announcing the bill's proposal, as you said the working group was founded in 2004, on the Ombudsman for people with disabilities over the past two years. I must stress that we at the SDP club are not surprised that it has been proposed at the last minute for half of the election year, but following the old one that is never late the SDP club will support this bill but we will insist with these amendments that this is not a pre-election trick as an illusion of something being done, but a law on an institution that will be above all politics and politics and in the right way point to an indolent system that is purpose to itself. By the way, there are many laws in Croatia that protect the rights of persons with disabilities, and there are also various offices that have already been able to see their non-implementation or implementation. Taking part in the debate in this Proposal for a Law of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, some colleagues expressed concern with the prosecutor's inflation. At first, at that point it seemed rather illogical to me, but now I agree with them. However, given the spectrum of people with disabilities, I realized that in some ways this institution of attorneys should be introduced in order to crystallise some of the problems, i.e. violations of basic human rights. But let's take the turn. In Croatia, the rights of persons with disabilities regulates around 270 different legal regulations. Their implementation is very slow, ineffective and unequal. Persons with disabilities cannot exercise their rights throughout Croatia in the same proportion. In order to raise the policy towards persons with disabilities to a higher level in 2003, a national single policy strategy for persons with disabilities with clear measures, holders and deadlines has been adopted. It ceased to be valid at the end of 2006, and the new one has not yet been delivered. Otherwise, this is already the end of the 4th month, almost half a year. It seems to me that the measures and the strategies mentioned were not largely implemented, that the deadlines had been moved, that the responsibility of one ministry had shifted to another and that no one had been responsible for that. Also when the SDP Club referred to the procedure of the declaration of rights of persons with disabilities in order to warn in this way of violations of human and civil rights and their inequality on 11 November 2004, the government gave an opinion and a proposal to the Croatian Parliament not to accept it. Therefore, it was not interested in the adoption of the first anti-discrimination act to persons with disabilities and thus supported discrimination against persons with disabilities. In early 2004, after the previous government's decisions on the release of VAT on imports of cars for disabled civilians were lifted, I asked the parliamentary question to Mrs Kosor and received a reply that this right would be returned when the state had money for it. Meanwhile, a lot of money has been spent on everything and everything, but it hasn't been found for this right. I reiterated that question at the last session, and I also received an answer from Mrs. Kosor, although I referred the question to the prime minister, hoping that as Prime Minister, he would finally touch this area that was very foreign to him sometime. Mr. Vice President, please provide me with the terms. I quote Vice-President Kosor's reply, and otherwise I referred the question to the Prime Minister of Persons with Disabilities in different systems, which requires a wide range of rights to ensure adequate resources in the state budget. The provision of resources for all expensive total beneficiaries of the rights of disabled persons as well as users of other social benefits depends on economic opportunities, i.e. the material opportunities of the Republic of Croatia. Despite efforts to secure resources to meet all specific needs of persons with disabilities in the state budget for 2007 it was not possible to provide funds for this purpose. But I have to note that this government has not found any funds for 2004 or 2005 or 2006 or 2007. That is what it shows for these specific needs. But it's not about any specific needs, it's about insufficient sensitization of the government for any needs of people with disabilities. Politics and the system cannot work on pilot projects that will last as long as the government estimates it can allocate funds without a legal standoff. There is also a commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities. In its decision on the establishment of this body, the Committee is the advisory and expert body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is the commission that the Government of the Republic of Croatia provides proposals, opinions and professional explanations from the field and position and protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities and their families and that it carries out activities aimed at their well-being. The Commission shall, in particular, monitor the application of existing rules relating to persons with disabilities, etc. in the performance of its task. If you went dot-by-point, you'd see that the commission didn't do it. How many meetings are being held and what is being debated is not known, as the minutes with the Committee session are impossible to reach. In the SDP club, what kind of body does it work against the interests of those they represent? It did not respond to the abolition of the VAT release decision on imports of vehicles for civilian disabled persons or did anything to remove the right to return. He did not react because of the two-and-a-half-year failure of the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the employment of people with disabilities. It did not raise questions about the disappearance of several million kunas from that fund or where these money ended. It also did not respond to the abolition of the right to compensation for the transport of children with developmental difficulties. He doesn't react when the body of art in eight months doesn't maintain the art procedure. It has not responded why it has not yet started with the process of equating the rights of all persons with disabilities regardless of time, method and place of disability. It did not respond when the Mandatory Health Insurance Act was adopted, which lists persons with disabilities in the asset censorship as a personal disability and all social incomes. Logically, what is the role of the Committee? Is this body just formed so that an organisation of persons with disabilities can see how they decide on the laws to be adopted on their behalf? I wonder if this bill arises as an attempt to cover up the lack of work of competent ministries and government dealing with the problem of people with disabilities or not? But let me start with the law itself. Article 7 provides that the Ombudsman may participate in the process of drawing up draft draft laws governing the issue of importance for persons with disabilities. It's about an indefinite provision. Would it not be better to say more specifically that the Ombudsman is involved in the preparation of such regulations because he is certainly interested in the law in the area in which his work is in the works? Article 12(2) does not specify the time limit within which the Ombudsman is obliged to inform the supervisory authorities of the inability to gain insight into the rooms in which persons with disabilities are located. And in paragraph 4 of the same article, there is no time limit within which the Ombudsman is obliged to inform the Government of the absence of a supervisory authority or the obligation for the Ombudsman to report it to the Croatian Parliament. Article 14 is replaced by the following: In Article 15, there is no time limit within which the Ombudsman is obliged to inform the applicant of a proposal for consideration of matters of importance for the protection of the rights and interests of persons with disabilities about the undertaking. Itd., etc. Otherwise, the draft law does not specify the process of appointing the Advocates. It says that the government will propose a lawyer to the Croatian Parliament but is not listed how the government will choose candidates. We think there's a public tender to be held. I have already said that in 2004, the SDP referred to the procedure of the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted in this meeting of the Parliament. After long negotiations of course with the majority in the Assembly, then we have only just adopted, we continue to support and represent the rights of persons with disabilities and accordingly we propose that the Ombudsman or one of his deputies be persons with disabilities, in order to respect the two significant principles promoted in SDP policy towards persons with disabilities. And that's the principle of positive discrimination and the principle of "O us, always with us"... Wait a minute. [[Intruder: It's not over.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87272	I was just drinking water.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87273	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87274	Therefore, in order to respect the two significant principles promoted in SDP policy towards persons with disabilities. And that's the principle of positive discrimination and the principle of "O us, always with us." It is also on the trail of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities signed by the Republic of Croatia. I believe that the introduction of the Ombudsman institution for persons with disabilities will encourage an investigation into restrictions and discriminatory barriers that limit the freedom of persons with disabilities and their full participation in society and take all necessary steps to improve the situation and raise the question of responsibility. Otherwise, on the matter of responsibility, I downloaded a little comic text from one forum. As a disabled person, I have the right to rehab every year in spas to preserve the remaining abilities. I don't use it every year, I use it as needed. For the last six years, I've been twice. And the question is, when am I going to go through again if I have to go through what I'm doing this time? In order to get to the spa, I have to come to my doctor's general practice a hundred times on a physical specialist's manual. A physicist at the hospital to assess if I need rehabilitation. By finding the physicist back to the general practice doctor to write a rehabilitation request. I'm taking that request to the board to approve me and they're giving me approval 10.7. I'm contacting the spas and sending them approval. 40 days later, the spas respond that they can come in 4.9 and bring in fresh approval because it's only worth 30 days. I'm going back to the health board to re-write my date, but they're responding that they're not doing it anymore, but that we need to bring in a new request that will be written by my general practitioner. I'm going to a general practitioner and he's writing me a new request calling for their already approved approval of 10.7. I'm taking a request back to the board, and they approve of it. But I have to get drunk again because I'm a little dry air, I'm sorry. Thank you and forgive me. Because it's usually a process so long it requires drinking water. I'm taking a request back to the board, and they approve of it. I'm going to go back to my general practice doctor to show him my approval and he's ordering me to come back a few days later and pick up the hospital treatment manual. Oh, whatever it is for me. I'm driving in a wheelchair anyway. Which time I'm going to the doctor's general practice to get the manual. Since public transport is unreachable for me, I'm looking for an ambulance transport. The doctor makes this quick, too fast on the phone and says it's taken care of. I kind of doubt it. I could go to the spa on foot. Finally, I'm taking a manual and thinking about what to do with it. Should I use it for rehabilitation or that I won't be as simple as it says on the forum? 'Cause I've had so much run-in, I've got so many conditions that I don't need the spas anymore. So how long are we going to need this Attorney General Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87275	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Kozina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87276	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! This Law on the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities creates essential features of Croatia as a democratic state in order to protect the rights of persons with disabilities associated with documents of the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the European Union which establish their current areas of action and recommend the application of their... principles, the need to protect rights and interests in national policies and legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These needs are highlighted in Article 52(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where it is prescribed that the state is obliged to devote special care to disabled persons in their protection and normal inclusion in social life. In this regard, on the rights and needs and contribution of persons with disabilities, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a National Programme to improve the quality of life of persons with disabilities. A national strategy for equating opportunities towards promotion, independence, freedom of choice and the quality of life of people with disabilities has also been adopted. According to the 2001 census, there are 429 thousand 421 persons with disabilities in Croatia. It's a disease, disability, and illness. We hear today that women are being extended for equality to work for 65 years. I agree that where the work of a hobby is that women work up to 65 years old but where work is necessarily evil then there is also 60 years a little too much. If we add that these people live with the family, at least two other members turn out to meet more than a million people with disabilities and their problems. The right persons with disabilities are regulated in the Republic of Croatia in different ways to ensure the rights of all persons with disabilities. Croatia has defined the appropriate measures to ensure accessibility of persons with disabilities... the environment, transport, information and communication including information and communication technologies and systems as well as other services and facilities open and dedicated to the public in both urban and rural areas on an equal basis in order to ensure a smooth life and participation in all areas of life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, it refers to roads and transportation. As for roads and other architectural barriers, it enters schools, residential buildings, health institutions, public activities institutions and jobs. We can freely say that people with disabilities face problems. It is very rare that the streets or legposts are adapted to disabled persons especially those in the wheelchair. This specifically refers to rural areas. Entering public buildings is rarely adapted to disabled persons. We can only say that the only way into medical institutions is well adapted to people with disabilities. Public transport is certainly not suitable for disabled persons. Buses as the main means of transport generally have high stairs and to get the disabled on the bus must be entered on their hands. It's the same with railways. In some ways, this was solved by a low noon tram in the city of Zagreb. This makes mobility difficult for disabled people. Without distinction, this difficulty is the most difficult thing for a disabled person without wheelchairs. The truth that through Caritas this problem has been tempered, however, has not been resolved to the end. The problem is with children in regular schooling where there is no adequate access or elevator if the class of this person is upstairs. There's the only way these kids can get their parents into class. That we don't talk about the problem of the physiological needs of children. Here we must strive to ensure the minimum standards of accessibility of space and other above. Also, other categories such as blind persons ensure the availability of a letter to blind persons and sound traffic lights at all pedestrian crossings. The availability of people with disabilities, quality driving aids, devices and other assistance must be resolved. Also, for a disabled person and a car was orthopedically helpful. It is therefore necessary to allow the purchase of vehicles without VAT or to recover the same person. The inability to provide the above aids with disabled persons means disrespect for the Declaration of Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the "National Journal" No. 40/05. Article 3 states that discrimination against persons with disabilities is any separation, exclusion or restriction due to disability. If the mobility of those categories is very limited or the material situation is more than bad, if the state is doing nothing or almost nothing to help them, then it is exclusion or restriction. The right to hire persons with disabilities under the regulations of the Republic of Croatia should be good but not. The right of persons with disabilities to work and employment is one of the fundamental human rights. According to the Employment Office in Croatia, 5 000 870 people with disabilities have been reported, however, according to the disabled organisations, their numbers are higher because many do not appear in the office since they accept the disability of 1,000 kuna. The biggest obstacles to the employment of people with disabilities are insufficient information so that the vast majority of employers have no experience with people with disabilities as workers. The employer thinks these people will be on sick leave all the time. They also feel that they should work in protective workshops. According to this above, the Ombudsman will have a large part of the work since the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was passed in the Croatian Assembly in 2002. Article 10 of that Act defines that the authorities of the state administration, the authorities of the judicial authority and other state bodies, local and regional self-government bodies, public services, extra-accountary funds and legal persons owned or principally owned by the Republic of Croatia are obliged to have a person with disabilities at an appropriate place of employment according to their choice in appropriate working conditions. By 31 December 2004, at least one person with disabilities to every 49 employees was defined until 2020. This provision has not been respected so far. What is the obligation of the same law to allocate the employer to a specific fund at a rate of 0.2% that did not employ a disabled person is not known how much of the funds are collected from that obligation and whether these funds are used for purpose purposes. We have to admit that a lot should change in approach to people with disabilities. In the opinion of the Association of Persons with Disabilities, they and their data show Lejla Kish-Glavas, a science professor at the Educational Rehabilitation Faculty through her students from the Employment Office, worked in research on employers' views on the employment of persons with disabilities. Of the 1,000 employers surveyed, 75% have no experience with people with disabilities as workers. The biggest obstacles are prejudice and lack of information about the work of people with disabilities. He believes that there are a lot of wrong people with disabilities who need to work on changing their consciousness with greater information. The employer fears that a person with disabilities will be very sick. However, data suggest that only 10% of people with disabilities use sick leave. Each third employer thinks people with disabilities should be employed in protective workshops and not in the labour market. Persons with disabilities are highly motivated for work and efforts are made to do it well and quality. In the field of healthcare and health insurance for disabled persons, create conditions for the effective operation of primary health care, including the definition of a health care package in basic health insurance by finding appropriate solutions in the functional link between family doctor and other healthcare professionals in primary health care. Defining the work of healthcare professionals at the level of primary health care in the office, house, home care and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. Ensure access to specialist consular health care. You have on reception counters for specialist examinations the inscription that people with disabilities have priority, but in practice it is difficult to achieve it. It happens that people with disabilities will not even be admitted to a specialist review if the quota for that day is completed. Ensure full rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, creating training and rehabilitation programmes at the nearest possible location of their residence, including rural areas. Create an appropriate standard of living and social protection for people with disabilities. In this area, according to the knowledge of persons with disabilities, there is the greatest injustice. A large number of people with disabilities receive the most common minimum, minimum pension. In particular, it should be noted that the funds for other people’s assistance and care have been the same for many years. It does not increase even though the state budget has increased widely. It is evident here that all persons with disabilities are not equally dependent on the cause of disability. In the Republic of Croatia there are 380 legal regulations that regulate the position of persons with disabilities. It is also difficult for experts, let alone people with disabilities. Unfortunately, many legal regulations are only on paper, and they do not come true in practice. Most often, this alignment with the commitments undertaken was at the level of the United Nations or the European Union and their standards. If we analyse all of this, we must agree that the establishment of a Ombudsman for people with disabilities is justified and necessary. The Associations of Persons with Disabilities consider that one of the Deputy Advocates should be appointed as a person with disabilities with the necessary professional qualifications. We in Croatia are party pensioners who will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87277	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, distinguished representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP club will support the bill on the rights of defenders for people with disabilities not because it is something great and it will solve all, all the problems of people with disabilities rather than because it is better than nothing. And when I read this all great, when I get to, for example, in the event of a violation of the rights of a person with disabilities, a lawyer who can actually do something about it? Then he says, "In carrying out the affairs of his district, the Ombudsman for disabled persons is authorised to warn, propose, notify and make recommendations." The Advocate-General for Persons with Disabilities shall be empowered to authorise the competent authorities of the state administration, local and regional authorities, regional self-government, legal and physical persons to propose measures to improve the situation of persons with disabilities and to request reports on the measures taken. And what shall we do, ladies and gentlemen? We just rub our eyes and feel like we've done something. We didn't actually do anything. If he said he could file criminal charges, then I'd say now he can do something. And this is how we're gonna do it, they're gonna come at us, they're gonna whine at us. We're gonna tell them we're gonna do this and we're gonna do this, and there's nothing we can do about it. Because here, it's exactly what the D.A.'s office can do for people with disabilities. We have proposed, I suggest and now that the attorney general is given much greater authority. To be a roof institution and to be entered into that institution by various lawyers for gender equality for children, for persons with disabilities for pensioners and so on and to be given a higher authority then something can be done. And this is how we will send all the defenders to the disabled, and this counsellor will say, "Well, listen, I can advise, offer advice, and this is what it is for you." And to them it will be as it is for them so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87279	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. ... I didn't see it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Correction of an incorrect allegation. Correction of the incorrect allegations of a respected representative... [[The speaker is disabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87280	Thank you very much, Mr. Pot... I am sorry that my colleague is thus discussing the final proposal of this Law on Advocates, Advocates or Advocates. [[The speech room is off, it doesn't understand.]] That nothing can be made out of this. That you can't punish yourself. It's not criminal law. You misunderstood the meaning of the law then, didn't you? He's got a lot of powers as an attorney under this law. But he doesn't have the jurisdiction of a criminal that would go out of the Penal Code. He's not a lawyer cop or a judge, is he? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87281	Thank you. It was like a little replica. ... The HNS club, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87282	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Advocacy, Advocate General, Advocate General for Gender Equality, Advocate for Children, Advocate for Persons with Disabilities, Advocate for Retired People And older people. [[Intruder: And older people.]] What's next? Attorney for the frustrated politicians. Attorney for the bankrupt tycoons or something. It seems to me that we have not carefully read the recommendations of 4.5 years old given to Croatia that it is not good or that it is not good to finish the defence hyperproduction. Let's seriously consider the proposal, that the attorney general has assistants for certain areas. Last week, counterpart Arlovic asked why the vacancy attorney doesn't have an assistant for the protection of workers' rights? An example, and there isn't. And we did not give the Ombudsman the powers of such special protection of the interests of special groups and I am not sure and we at the Club of the Croatian People's Party are not sure that this is the best solution, that there is a need for people with disabilities to have the possibility of legal protection. That's what we're convinced of. But we are convinced, and no argument by the government's representatives has been heard of why this would be more effective, and we are convinced that it would be more effective for the vehicular attorney to have an assistant for people with disabilities. It would be cheaper for the state, because instead of these two and a half million kunas that the new attorney's office will cost this assistant would probably be something cheaper, and all the infrastructure already exists. I made a joke about what's really coming next? If we will have the right to refuse a legitimate request and other minority groups on different grounds and to say no to them, you have no right to your counsel. It has also been said that this bill is a few years late, and how late is the Law on Disabilities of Disabilities? Eight years, eight and a half years and the government isn't even coming with a proposal right now I have to say with the help of some associations and alliances of disabled people how to resolve the issue of a disabled supplement to disabled people. So there was an excuse that it was not good for Parliament to solve the problem of the blind only first or the problem of the deaf, that the law must be for all people with disabilities, and that there are 429000 of them, and then it is impossible to agree on different associations and alliances and, in particular, against those alliances that run persons who are not disabled and who are actively involved in the work of the Government's Committee for Persons with Disabilities. And if this commission has managed to implement a single proposal in the last three and a half years to help disabled people in Croatia, then this commission really shouldn't have existed. And now I'm asking again if this is going to be a disability supplement, let's say, to blind people. Does this commission know that even the blind who are on welfare receive compensation or a supplement between 280 and 400 kuna, and those are around 1500, Mr. Secretary of State, and those who are until '99? These rights are granted in the pension system by 700 kuna, such as 4 and a half thousand. That it is the blind citizens of this country who, by material rights alone, depend on the system in which they receive compensations of 1:2 and a half. The fee of 280 as a minimum disabled person moves up to 3 and a half thousand kuna. Because in Croatia, helping a disabled person depends not on how disabled he is, but on how disability is created. And that's the key to the right. It doesn't matter what you're missing, it matters how it happened. And we've been finding that out in Parliament for years, and instead of solving that problem, we're going to set up a defence. Okay. Now I'm asking if this attorney or attorney will have the authority to raise traffic signs so they don't disturb the blind when they walk the sidewalks of our cities. Whether they will have the authority to order all public institutions to have ramps for persons in wheelchairs or elevators. There's a legal obligation. Whether the Ombudsman will have the right to order Minister Primorac to print a textbook for blind students. They have the same right, and no textbook. Will he have the right to order public transporters to drive the needs of disabled persons? Whether he will have the right to order the government to propose after 9 years a Law on the invalidity of disabled persons who will be equal to the degree of disability and not at the beginning. What is the UN Convention in which you are calling for the reasons of this law to write this subject. Has the UN adopted a convention that allows discrimination to arise, rather than disability. What the Convention says, and Croatia is one of the first countries to ratify it. That's what we brag about. But we're not fixing any laws that have led to discrimination against people with disabilities, we're introducing the Attorney General Institute. Whether the Ombudsman will have the right to ask, ask, say, the school system to hire a young woman who has been educated with her own resources completely blindly, graduated from Zagreb, a graduate defectologist if I am not wrong or for rehabilitation, and for four years no one in this country should work with blind students in the regular system of education. For four years, no one, in any school, should work in kindergarten on the education of teachers and teachers who work and teach to blind people. I've tried talking to the department's responsible people to do something. They said they'd leave a phone number and call her from the stock market if she showed up for a job. So how many states did she invest in her education? We don't need her now. Will the Ombudsman have the right to ask the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to bring a legal order after 9 years of postponement on the case of disabled workers who were on the so-called waiting, and later transferred to invalidity pensions that were 50% less than the compensation they had received until then, by force of the law without their will. Is that also a contribution to the position of disabled persons? Is it true that we had to pass this law so that the Ombudsman would say that it is possible to find the definition of the disabled and that it is not true that Croatia has 429000 people with disabilities in the same position. 'Cause I'm sorry, a disabled person is the one with one or two fingers on his left or right hand. But that person doesn't need the same care and protection and community assistance as a completely immovable person, a blind person, those who move in a wheelchair or who have other needs for it. And that number of 429000 is a key argument why we need a lawyer. Who are these people with disabilities? How long will the number 429 thousand disabled serve as an excuse not to even their rights at the height of a disabled supplement? And now, we've adopted, ratified the convention, we're going to start a lawyer and say we're going to take great care of disabled people. What do you think it would be like to discuss in this House if 152 disabled people were sitting here? Randomly chosen. Would a representative of the government listen to what they're saying and understand the seriousness or would you stay and insist on this proposal? After all, which association or union of disabled persons sought counsel as priority number one? Which of the disabled associations, or associations and communities of disabled persons under number 1 asked for a lawyer? I don't know about them. I'd like to hear if they really exist who they are. But I know that everyone puts it first, please give it complete, bring the disability supplement law to its origin, i.e. according to the degree of disability, and that it also represents those rights for all of them, regardless of whether it will be 5, 15 or 50% of the average salary. Just to be protected and equal in that part. I am firmly convinced that the Parliament will also accept this second proposal for the Ombudsman for the elderly and the pensioners and that we will have five, six more. But in their position, their rights and ways of achieving them will not be affected. Because the problem in Croatia is not only the laws, but the implementation of the laws. And under the authority of the attorney general, he writes that he warns, suggests and suggests. Of these blind, immobilized, severely ill people with this counselling, the recommendations have been greatly beneficial for 17 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87283	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ratko Gajica. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87284	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, it's not exactly an indication that this is the attorney general's hyperproduction, but it's a clear sign of an institution's failure to function. I remind you, the practice of specialized ombudsmans is introduced in the legal practice of Croatia and it is legitimately right on behalf of certain groups to propose their defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87285	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ratko Gajica, on behalf of the SDSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87286	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm gonna say something at first that I can't be against and I don't want to be against. Persons with disabilities have the right to understand and have the right to show sensitivity to us according to their position. And here I am clean. I'm going to say two, three more things about this proposal that I respect here. First of all, it is an undeniable goal that, in the form of materials, the arguments writes a special concern for the state to protect disabled people and to involve them in social life. It seems to me that it was said that it was extracted from the constitutional provision. That's how much more power it has. I respect the next thing, and this is the idea that this will be the most contributed by the special defence. I have some doubts that I'm going to raise later, but I and this idea in reason, the argument when it comes to this, I respect it as a legitimate right. It's the third thing I'm mentioning here as something I'm looking at. The proposal also includes a more efficient percentage, a procedure to seek control of the work of the state authorities, and then to report on it, and then inform the Government. The promoter here tried to make some fuses that are stronger than what the attorney general's authority says. I see in this desire to do something about it by handling the fear that has been said here that without some kind of insurance, even some kind of potential sanctions that when something doesn't go that thing in some way justly goes away to the end. I respect it all together. But I'm still going to raise one question here, which is in the next. First, are we going to be guided here by this sensitivity to the position and needs of the disabled? And if that were to be handled, then you would have supported this proposal without a reservation. But in my doubt, of course, there's another side, and there's, I'll say some of the following. So, I feel, if I may say so, I can say that for rationality I from this place can point out or I can't avoid a few of the following questions. One thing is, is it more useful to force special defenderships for individual social specificities, each little to single out and especially treat the issues of special groups, to set up special institutes in order to push legal state mechanisms to do their job? And I'm afraid we're about on those relations. Next question. Are we going to get a flood of new institutes that will eventually become the forgotten speciality without the social weight we hope for? Next question. Will this dilute the fundamental idea of the Ombudsman as an additional mechanism that will monitor and control social practice and protect the fundamental rights of people and the attitude of the state and its bodies towards citizens? And I remind myself in this place that it is constantly about whether the law, therefore, is the mechanism of protecting someone's rights, and whether in some other way state and state bodies are doing their job. Well, then if we're forced to keep looking for exits to encourage state authorities to do that, then it seems to me that this thing is a little upside down. I'm going to say one more question for me, it's a question of doubt. Whether this will weaken the role and authority of the attorney general as a permanent social practice correction which is still crucial to the issues of the effective functioning of the state, feelings for people's problems and equal relations with everyone, responsibilities for the functioning of the rule of law, etc. Of course, I can say that I'm here asking big questions that practice can't realize in time. But we have to ask such big questions in this place because it's about the state's mechanism and because it's about the state's mechanisms to be realized. And when I come from this doubt and these questions, I'm afraid, of course not, I'm afraid that what we have here today as a proposal doesn't turn out to be a step back. Or someone here today said it doesn't turn out to be a thing of nothing. I wish it wasn't like that. As far as this company is concerned, I'm going to say the next thing we know. But I'm stressing it here right now. The responsibilities and role of the occupier is in some way a constitutional category. His powers are coming out of the Constitution and he should have stronger power. We spoke from this place and from this pay phone about the need to give him support in the teaming, in creating other conditions, in human strength, and in giving him some authority that he does not have right now. And when you strengthen that institution with this root in the Constitution, then it seems to me there's something more serious. Now, I'm telling you in a partnership with this proposal now I have two questions again. A new Attorney General or a more rational organization of the existing system. And second question, new institutions or new expert teams. I'm afraid these are entirely legitimate issues and yes, I'm even convinced that if this rational organization and new expert teams in the existing mechanism might produce an even better result. Because of what I've stated, I think it would be good especially because in our agenda and in this house there are further suggestions on special defences and they won't stop just what's on the agenda right now. I think it would be good if, before establishing new entities, it was an analysis from a rational organisation, the functionality of the conditions of work achieved, the efficiency of social support and the cost of costing this mechanism, and I am talking about the defence mechanism. And before we establish new ones and make them say such a rough flood, I wish there was such an analysis of what it would turn out to be in all these aspects. I'm sure we'd be smarter after that. I have to say, I'd be smarter in this dilemma whether to raise my hand for this law or not. Because what I keep wearing as a burden here is constantly about whether state organs, bodies, etc. They're doing their job neatly. As much as we talk about the defences and the installation of new institutions is constantly the basic motive of what I just said and the creation of a social atmosphere is immediately going along with it, I should guarantee sensitivity with the position of persons with disabilities with which I started this story. I wish I was smarter. I'm not much of a god knows what smartness I've said, but what I wanted you to understand. I have a question I don't have an answer for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87287	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in principle, Mr. Gaizza, I agree with you. So you're not the only one who has doubts but everyone seems to me, so how much is this going to contribute or just put things under the rug. However, the state should have no understanding of the rights of disabled persons but rather its duty. You have also said that the state has established, tried mechanisms to monitor the establishment of this Ombudsman, but Article 12(4) states that there is no deadline within which the Ombudsman is obliged to inform the Government of the lack of a body of supervision and the obligation for the Ombudsman to report to the Croatian Parliament. The term shall then be used in Article 14 within an appropriate time limit which is undefined, etc. So, I guess these aren't surveillance mechanisms after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87289	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87290	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to have to reflect on this one thesis that was just before said that it doesn't know what associations are which is a very difficult thesis not to know which associations required this law to be introduced and to introduce the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. I must tell you that there is a commission in the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities and that all associations, all associations, have requested and not only to pass this law, but also to introduce an attorney for persons with disabilities. And I'm just surprised at the fact that you don't know that, even though you should know. I must also point out that these projects, the pilot of the projects you've honored, have been carried out. It's a pilot project for individuals, so it's for a personal assistant. We have introduced a very valuable project in this year and it is a personal assistant for those persons and there is 176 meaning personal assistants who have come into consideration and I think we have all the praises of all these people and of all these associations who say so. That would be about it. And all these suggestions that you have made and that would reflect on this new law we will carefully study the elements that can be entered into the law we will enter, which cannot unfortunately be taken because this law is made according to the highest principles that currently exist in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87291	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87292	Thank you. Well, in these few sentences from the secretary of state, there would be a lot of correction. First of all, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's commission does not do its job well and does not represent a quality association of persons with disabilities, it can be seen at all that their minutes can not be reached at all, etc., etc. I'm sorry that the secretary of state didn't come prepared enough for this session because otherwise the Institute of Personal Assistant has not been working since this year, but for two years now, but as a pilot project for two years, not since this year, and before that, it was still two years as a pilot project, so I'm wondering when the pilot will finally stop and when it will become law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87293	Thank you. The word has on behalf of the HSS club the esteemed representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well colleagues and colleagues, here during the debate on this Bill proposal, it is evident that the government in the inability to establish a rule of law actually resorts to the Proposal for a Law on the Introduction of a Public Advocate for Persons with Disabilities in order to actually create an illusion of the activities and work of the Government in the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, because that the rule of law works, that persons with disabilities can consume their rights which they are entitled to by the law of the day would certainly not need to have a public defender who will monitor whether their rights have been violated. The Public Advocate is actually our power of attorney, the power of the Croatian Assembly, who has the authority of us to oversee how the rights of citizens are respected, in this case persons with disabilities. Since this bill, therefore, is certainly an illusion, a blur, and since it has only 28 articles of which no article is an innovation, there is indeed no excuse in particular that this working group appointed three years ago for the preparation of this Law has studied for as long as 3 years to invent a 28 - article law including, of course, the final provisions which are said to be effective then and then. So, it is said, we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club are asking a fundamental question by thinking about this Act, which is whether someone needs to monitor the rights of persons with disabilities and how I have just established, and I think other colleagues in the debate find that the rule of law does not work, that in that case there is a need for someone to oversee these rights, to exercise the rights, whether it is as an independent institution, an independent body of a staff attorney, or a lawyer for persons with disabilities, we are inclined to think that, within the framework of the Ombudsman, an assistant attorney for persons with disabilities, assistant attorneys, etc. so we wouldn't have come into this situation really already a little hyperinflation by the attorney generals. Well, if these public defenders had significantly different powers and significantly different competences than those so far, the attorney generals in that case, we wouldn't have anything against that hyperinflation, even though we would have a taste of bitterness left in our mouth for a reason because they are truly the result of the inability to establish the functioning of the rule of law. What's the role of the attorney general? Well, we've heard more than once that the role of the attorney general is, that's the proposer's explanation and says, therefore, that he is coordinating, consulting and overseeing. Let's try to get some lessons out of the work of the attorney general, from the work of the attorney general for gender equality, from the work of the prosecutor for children, and then we'll argue, that during one calendar year, the attorney general found that the rights of certain citizens were violated, that they were violated by state bodies, so we have a report by the attorney general who even claimed that the judicial authority violated the rights of citizens. We're adopting that report, and what's going on? Nothing really happens. Why isn't it happening? Because the Ombudsman has no other authority but to establish this violation of the right, inform the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament will accept this report, and those for whom the Ombudsman exists will actually benefit very little or no use. It is true that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that the special care of the states is devoted to the protection of disabled persons and their inclusion in social life. What should be done to give special care and to protect rights, protect disabled persons, and especially to involve them in social life. Well, first of all, they need us to enable them to realize the rights that they have under the law of the day. That's what we have to do. Without that, there's no protection for disabled people, and we don't have to make that up, it already exists. To give them the rights they once had, I mean exclusively disabled workers. I would remind you that while there was a reform of the pension system in the shadow of that pension system reform, there was also a reform of the disability system, i.e. disability insurance, and the reform suffered by disabled workers. It was in the privatisation process that disabled workers were the ones who lost their jobs. They then had fees until 1.1.1999 when their rights were translated, and those rights were significantly less than those they had until then. How do we plan to involve them in social life, and these disabled work is very much? Would it perhaps be better and whether we should also think about returning those categories to the working legislation that existed before, which is the possibility of deploying to another workplace, the possibility of retraining, shortened working hours, etc. I think that in this way we would help those people with disabilities far more than set up an institution that will monitor, coordinate and advise. I think they're here to make far greater opportunities for the state to protect but also to engage in social life. Furthermore, in addition to enabling the consumption of given rights for protection and special care of disabled persons, a single policy strategy should also be implemented for people with disabilities although it is missing, but despite the lack of such a strategy is not implemented. And when we summary these three years of this mandate, then we will see that the 2003-2006 strategy has been adopted, according to the report, it has not been implemented and has not been fully implemented. Some new strategy is now being prepared from 2007 to 2012. Before the end of the term of office comes the draft law on the Ombudsman for disabled persons, and when we take the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Croatia, then we will see that those ministries that have provided funds for the implementation of the programme for facilitating the situation of disabled persons are not realised and that in some items even with embarrassing 2.6% have been realised. So if there is a vision of protection and special care for these people, if there is a vision and programs for their inclusion in social life then those funds must be realised and in this way we will protect these people more than this way. However, of course the Croatian Peasant Party, the Croatian Peasants' Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasants' Party will support this proposal in its first reading. However, since we are obviously not alone in our own way of thinking that some other clubs are thinking in the same way as we are thinking, we certainly expect the promoter to consider this possibility until another reading in order to protect rights in a much better way and give special care and inclusion in social life than it is in this way envisaged. Furthermore, in addition to the need to engage in social life already existing persons with disabilities, I think that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and especially the Ombudsman in his co-ordination, could point to the need to protect the prevention of disability. Prevention of disability. If we are in contact with people who are lucky to work today, we will see that they are, that this job is in such conditions of work that borders health security and that it is a very high risk and danger of disability. So if we can prevent disability from happening, we've certainly done a lot. Furthermore, there were as many as 39 protection workshops in Croatia where people with disabilities worked. By amending the law here in this term, the disabled in this Croatian Parliament are equal to the other citizens in the labour market. I have already pointed out that this is very harmful for these people, because at a time when the labour force offer is far greater than its demand, it is somehow understandable that employers avoid people with disabilities and give priority to people who do not have this disability. So maybe it would be nice to think about some of the things that have proved to be good in history, to come back again. So at the end of one sentence, I would like to say, we will support this bill, although we expect nothing from it because it is nothing, but we have made a few proposals by realising which proposals are far better able to protect people with disabilities and give them the opportunity to engage in social life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87295	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. What? ... Yes, the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Caparin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct a colleague who said that the government is passing this bill to create an illusion of government's work with people with disabilities. I will not list what this Government has done, but a colleague can look at websites so that an example of funding for people with disabilities at local level, financing basic activities of persons with disabilities, further with the field of health, sport, recreation, health care insurance, rehabilitation of children with disabilities in development that are raised in regular special educational institutions, institutions of social care, measures to ensure the most favourable conditions of self-employment for persons with disabilities, the provision of funds for the most favourable conditions for self-employment of persons with disabilities in the promotion of a small economy, the provision of accessibility in the health system, the rehabilitation centre of functional assistance, the provision of access to the culture system, etc. I'm not talking about the funds that have been spent. So, my colleague, it's really ugly that you've said a sentence like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87297	Dear representative Ruža Lelic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87298	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of mine said that by proposing a government attorney for people with disabilities, she created an illusion and blurry which is not true. The government wants to strengthen the promotion of the rights of disabled people, and the colleague has already cited a series of measures, so I won't repeat it. Then she said that she was actually a lawyer that his job was to oversee the right person with disabilities. Article 2 states that it protects, monitors, and promotes the rights of disabled people. It also stated that persons with disabilities are equated to employment, which is also not true that there are a number of incentive measures in the employment of persons with disabilities from the education of disabled persons, job-adjustment and working conditions, labour-related benefits, co-financing of personal assistant costs and a number of other measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87299	Dear representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87300	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Also, Mr. Secretary of State, I can tell you that my colleague, Gordana Sobol, and I, while we have since you've been in the Ministry of the Family and since you've been in charge of the rights of the disabled, don't take it for granted, so please, because we just like to see who we're communicating with. Otherwise, as far as the Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is concerned, I can tell you all sorts of things, and it's written everywhere. But as far as it goes, that's another story, my dear colleagues. According to the latest census, we have already heard that around half a million people with disabilities live in the Republic of Croatia. Of which 4% died in car accidents, 10% in the Homeland War. 24% on the job and that's the saddest thing, so, where many people who lost their jobs in the '90s are. for illegal privatisation translated into disabled work. And 8% acquired disability by birth. In a wheelchair, there's 7 thousand 201 people moving. The blind in Croatia are about 5 thousand, and the person with intellectual difficulties is about 120 thousand. 12 thousand 488 are permanently fixed, so those who lie in bed. From the above, it is about 10% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. Persons with disabilities are a specific category of population whose rights, obligations and responsibilities are regulated in over 270 different regulations. So it's about an area where, in a minimum of 270 places, the possibility of disrespecting these rights, their violation or the worst that happens to us is ignoring these rights. Our laws are wonderful. Among the better in Europe. I have a lot of rights, a lot of commissions, offices, working groups dealing with the question of people with disabilities, but nothing works right. And there's the problem. We can't talk about the protection system if we run them through pilot projects on the cause of hundreds of people. What about the entire population of people with disabilities who need the same type of help with the same criteria? Why should it affect the right of choice or the person with disabilities be a member of one of the associations to exercise his right? Is the right based on disability or membership? Starting with basic healthcare for persons with disabilities, education, etc. It's all on the border of the gray zone. It's just sad but true. But I wouldn't be long because I said a lot on behalf of the club. In some ways, I was somewhat surprised by Mrs. Minister in the morning's debate, who was responsible for the presentation of counterpart Pancic. She said the ministry bought about 300 cars for Croatian wartime first category disableds. She said cars mean life. I agree with Madam Secretary, and I support that part. Everywhere in the world, the veterinary population has a specific status. And that's fine. Isn't it hypocritical not to buy, not to buy cars for the most difficult group of disabled civilians, but to abolish their minimum rights or to lift the right to release VAT on imports of cars that have bought their money? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87301	Thank you. Dear MP, replica of the respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87302	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Škulić, in my opinion, you have well defined the situation with one single sentence and that says, "There are a lot of things being written and a little being realized." And that is the fundamental problem in the Republic of Croatia not only in this segment but in society at all. With us laws are really looking at, by the law, the rights are great. And if those rights are listed as we just had the opportunity to listen, then those rights are really huge but a little of it is realized. But the government is unscheduled in the need to address some very important issues that mean a life for people with disabilities. For example, we had a suspension of the provisions under which disabled persons or persons with disabilities are exempt from paying toll fees in registration, toll and bridge. However, the government did not find it necessary to change its slip. She wanted it because when we passed the law and abolished that provision, we pointed out that this would happen and we indicated that a personal car for a disabled person with an invalid leg was 80% or 100% not a luxury. It's the need. However, the government was careless and they did not even change that article of the law. Then when we went with the amendment of the law then they suggested of course the rejection of the law to end at the last minute. So, on the one hand, we have a tragedy of not implementing the law and also of the government not being up-to-date with updating the resolution of very important issues and problems in the laws themselves. ... No one asked you anything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87303	Replica reply, respected representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87304	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Lalic, I agree fully with you. Not only can we name 270 legal provisions, so we can name them all here as declared nice. However, here you have seen the problem of their implementation. First, the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund. Unfortunately, when I had a debate here in the Parliament, which is the saddest thing I've ever warned about since the fund went missing. The minister didn't find the need to answer, so he ignored it as a problem. And then we can't talk about promotional employment measures unless the minister finds himself even called to deny me. So, there's something wrong with that. Also in equalising rights. A working group was established years ago, in early 2004. And she's her own purpose. So we can't talk about politics then, about the policy system towards people with disabilities and about improving the quality of life. We can only talk about forest regulations that are our own purpose and inconclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87305	Thank you. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87306	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Here, we have a bill on the Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities. We see that these people have about 10% of what fits the average of other European countries. When we look at the structure of people with disabilities then we see that we actually have disabled work represented by 25.41% and disease 45.97%. Then certainly the third group was disabled by the Homeland War. And actually, when we look at all these groups of disability, then we can conclude, and actually what we need to do is prevent it. Prevention of all persons with disabilities, from disability, disability caused by illness to disability from birth, and they can be prevented by proper monitoring of pregnancy and later development, traffic accidents and all others. So our tendency should also be focused on preventing all kinds of disability. When we talk about disabled workers, it is certainly because of the changes, and because of the legal regulations that were then made. There were many findings here that nothing or almost nothing was actually done in that field. I'm sure it wasn't done enough, but it was done anyway. So here is when we talk about a personal assistant in 2006 for these purposes, 3 million kuna was allocated, and in 2007, so 186 people and 8 million and 600 were covered. This measure is indeed welcomed by disabled people who need it and the process needs to be moved from pilot to right legal solution and to ensure all those who need to be provided. I think it's a big, big progress and a great achievement, and I don't think many more advanced countries have managed to solve this issue than we have. When it comes to employment, it is certainly one of the essential categories in the quality of life for people with disabilities. We see a yearly employment of about a thousand and 100 people registered at the Employment Service. Most often they are employed in family crafts and small businesses or protected workshops. I'd look back here, I think that really protected workshops, although we want people with disabilities to be involved in the system, but in protective workshops, I think maybe the best they can do is find a job. Well, I did business with Lada as the director of the facility myself. Then I see here they are listed in, that follows the institution for professional rehabilitation... Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'd really like to argue that these institutions that specialize in helping them function properly because they've been talking to me about having a lot of difficulty in functioning. However, in this fund established for the professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities, we see that these funds, which are intended for these purposes, are significantly increased. So since 2004, employers who employ people with disabilities, people with disabilities and self-employment have been assigned 8 million kunas. In 2005, a slight shift was made to 9 million kuna. However, in 2006 20 million kuna. So there is still a positive shift which is certainly made when it comes to persons with disabilities that employment is of great importance in all aspects. But what I would like to say, which is, what is a shift and what is now being implemented, is in the reform of the social care system that also applies to people with disabilities who are working on deinstitutionalisation and all other aspects that include it. As I conclude in this report, there are certainly many, many measures implemented. Some, in part, some have not been fully implemented. That is why the National Strategy for the Single Policy of a disabled person for 2006 will continue. We should all argue that the measures are being complemented, that they are being implemented, but surely they are not the only Ministry, the only government that can ensure that. It's also local self-government and county units and everyone else who can contribute to it and our support here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87307	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87308	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not going to talk today about any of my dilemmas in Croatia is there a defence inflation in Croatia? I still don't think so, but every request that comes from either side so whether it comes from associations or from someone else just shows in fact that in certain areas laws, strategies and what we have written down and through our constitutional provisions don't actually go through. Someone, someone from today's debate, has said that it is essentially this draft law on the Ombudsman for disabled persons that continues to work so far when it comes to exercising the rights of persons with disabilities. If that's the case, then I'll raise both hands against it. But I will still support the proposal for this law because I repeat that the Ombudsman for people with disabilities is required precisely because the strategies and what should be done and the Committee for the Implementation of the Strategy for Persons with Disabilities, but what is written in the declarations of the law in Croatia, does not implement in Croatia. What I would like to personally in my debate to warn and that is something, something that is called the Employment and Professional Rehabilitation Fund of Persons with Disabilities. My colleague Lelic said before me that when it comes to this Fund, some shift has been made when monitoring the amount of funds the Fund has had available for employment and professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities. First of all, I'm asking her a question, and I have to say that I haven't been able to find any relevant information about how many people with disabilities are employed on the basis of the funds collected, let's say last year 2006 or 2005 or 2004. Another thing to say when it comes to this Fund and when it comes to the millions of kunas that this fund had at its disposal, then it is necessary to ask such a question: Why do the budget rebalances at the beginning of each year in the State budget for the functioning of the Fund? Further to what is to be said about the Fund, it is only about a year or so, or the Fund itself has been functioning for two and a half years without a leader. Even so, it speaks enough about the government's relationship to the problem of people with disabilities and the need for their employment. For 2006, 37 million kunas were foreseen in the budget. Now that this Fund is being filled with, and this law is thus 0.1% of the amount allocated for pension and health insurance of all Croatian employees and additional donations from the Budget turned out to be in fact that the Fund was supposed to receive some 70 million kuna for the past year. No one from the Ministry of Finance has ever explained why these money has not been paid into this fund, as it has certainly not explained where and for what purpose this difference has been spent on, although the truth has come in fact from the Ministry of Finance one explanation that the fund has not functioned in terms of doing the jobs it has foreseen by law and then, in fact, other activities in other ministries and bodies of the state administration such as the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, the Ministry of Family and Intergenerational Solidarity are financed from this money, which are related to improving the social and social status of people with disabilities. Since the secretary of state here I suppose he is in charge of the problem of persons with disabilities, because otherwise he would not defend this bill, then I ask him to try to answer in the final word this question which are the projects that are of this money that he should have funded, and that it refers to improving the life, or social status of disabled people. Furthermore, the question is also raised when it comes to what is actually done and what is financed with these funds. This information that you cannot essentially get the exact information about how a new person with disabilities is, in fact, remains definitely a finding that is both indirectly spoken and from the fund itself, i.e. people sitting in the Governing Council of the Fund, that in fact the funds have been shared to assist companies that employ persons with disabilities. In other words, it would mean, or I guess, covering debts in which these companies were or were actually being touched by these companies in a way that those already employed not to lose their jobs. So, the problem with the Fund is that I personally am very confident that the new Attorney General or Ombudsman will have a job to do for people with disabilities. And the next thing I'd like to warn you about, in a way, ask a public question, and that's a question of hiring people with disabilities in state-owned companies in our ministries, institutions, institutions, so let's say in an institution like this Croatian Parliament. I remind myself that somewhere it was, or still, the obligation to employ 49 employees and one person with disabilities in matters of state-owned companies and institutions, and I remind you that from 1.1.2008 in fact, this number has been reduced to, so by 31.12.2008 at least one person with disabilities to 32 employees, and in 2020 at least one person with disabilities to 16 employees should be employed. I'm trying to remember, I'm trying to ask myself a question. We are MPs and MPs here, for example I ask such a public question to the services, i.e. the secretary I assume of the Croatian Parliament whether, for example, this provision of the law is respected in the Croatian Parliament. So, for every 49 employees, we have one person employed, one person with disabilities, or perhaps I should ask the Ministry of Finance or Minister Shuker whether this legal provision is respected in his ministry. If he is respected, that is, if he says that he has spent on that very purpose the extra funds for which no one knows where I am forgiving him in some way and ultimately I am praying to him publicly, not only on his own behalf, and I believe that fellow Parliamentarians and MPs will agree that at least in this year and before the change of power, we allow our colleague sitting here to, like all of us, exercise his right to when speaking on behalf of the club speak from this place here from a pay phone. That's the first one. And secondly, it would also be desirable for the Croatian Parliament to be in some way let me put it that way when it can't be different, then at least when it comes to disabled people and when it comes to toilet rooms in the Croatian Parliament not to be that only they have a unisex toilet room. We all have our separate male and female, but as far as I know, when it comes to people with disabilities regardless of gender, everyone uses the only toilet space here in Parliament. This isn't criticism. This is one request, because I think we could do it this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87309	Thank you very much. What's the problem I wouldn't want, is whether these are technological restrictions or conditions for discussion with a pay phone. Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87310	Well, as far as I know it's going to be, because if a colleague Škulić comes up with a wheelchair right now, whether or not she's going to be heard, you won't be able to see her first because this stage, or the pay phone, is so high that it's not supposed to be anywhere on the side of a wheelchair and that it can be spoken. It may seem irrelevant to us and others, but I think it's essentially one way to show our relationship to people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87311	At least I try in the Croatian Parliament as regards persons with disabilities or special needs to do everything possible to allow the job to be done in a dignified way. So please, Comrade Schulic, go ahead. I'm interested in saying a few words about it right now because you're the one who encouraged it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87312	Thank you, Mr. President, for giving me the opportunity. Otherwise, I can publicly admit that you are a person with a lot of understanding, therefore, and more or less supports everything I suggest. So, on all the problems I encounter, you try to solve them along with Parliament's professional services. However, in order to track down what fellow Sobol said in order to respect the principle of equal opportunities, I, too, suggest simply to set up a microphone when I speak on behalf of the club. It doesn't take any bigger, no smaller, no tall, no too little payphone just a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87313	Okay. Let's do it. Now, we'll see the other one. What? What kind of phone call is that now? Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I believe we all agree that there is a need to protect the rights and interests of people with disabilities. But it seems regrettable that support for the protection of the rights of disabled people in everyday life is very often just a declarative nature. We have a National Programme to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities. We have a National Single Policy Strategy for Persons with Disabilities and a series of regulations based on this programme and strategies that should protect the rights of disabled persons. I came across some information that there are as many as 280 of them. We also have many authorities in charge of their implementation. It would be said at first sight that in the Republic of Croatia people with disabilities flows honey and milk and that their rights are indeed at a high level. But the everyday one speaks differently. People with disabilities very often encounter a number of obstacles not only of a physical nature in terms of access to individual facilities, we have heard now and access to this speaker, therefore to individual facilities, institutions and means of public transport, but also to the lack of understanding of other citizens about their difficulties and problems. The saddest thing is the lack of understanding of public service workers, often just those who should be at the service of disabled people and make their daily life easier. Recently on television, we had the opportunity to see a report on dogs guides to blind persons in which the blind person was disabled from access to the bus city transport with his dog. Only after the police intervention did the driver receive the passenger, of course his dog. Such and similar examples in everyday life are many, and above all they refer to public - service officials. That is why I think the introduction of the Ombudsman institution for disabled persons will help protect their integrity and rights as well as systematically monitor the implementation of existing regulations. Unfortunately, in this important segment of the civilizational arrangement and the functioning of society, there are also those who express doubts about the possibility of politicising and manipulating the institution of the Ombudsman. In part, they may be right if we recall the recent discussions through public media presentations and parliamentary committees on the introduction of health, or sexual education in schools that actively involved the Ombudsman for children and experienced public discrimination and disputed expertise by the Minister of Health, and only because she expressed an opinion different from the one represented by the relevant ministries, so it was from those institutions of the systems that should have respected and discussed its observations as the other institution's position of that same system. The legitimate observations of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities also show that this proposal contains a series of provisions which are not uniformly defined, so they express only the declarative support of the work and powers of the Advocates. By contrast, sanctions are not clearly defined in the event of non-implementation of the provisions laid down in this proposed law. I am afraid, therefore, that this too is not one of the acts that has been adopted to meet the requirements and acts of the United Nations and the European Union, but without a real desire to solve the problems of persons with disabilities permanently and effectively. In addition to this fear of mine, he speaks and assesses the necessary means to implement this law. The estimated 2 and a half million kuna for the Attorney's Office million and 860 thousand is planned for employees, current maintenance and capital investments, and 640 000 for renting space, material, communication, information, professional training, literature, seminars, counselling, promotion, intellectual services, international membership fees and official travel. In these amounts, it is difficult, in fact, to find fully impossible the means of professional assistance of the Ombudsman in the specific cases faced by persons with disabilities and which would enable them to carry out their duties effectively and quality. I will not particularly highlight certain provisions, i.e. articles, but I hope that the law in the final proposal for text in the second reading will remove the indicated shortcomings that have been sufficient in this debate and be indeed effective in real, not just a declarative contribution to the easier life of people with disabilities and I support its adoption. Finally, one technical, purely practical remark. In order to avoid the violation of gender equality and by the name of this law, I propose that the name of the law and the institution itself be changed in a way that does not mention the sex of the person but the name of the institution, so this act should be called the Defence Act for persons with disabilities, and in the same way it should be good and the names of the other institutions in the laws relating to the other defences in the Republic of Croatia should be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87315	Thank you. Dear Representative Marijan Mlinarić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Jelena Pavicic Vukicevic. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. It's already been said a lot about the reasons why this law was passed. However, what we all agree together is that every day or at the level of our country, there is an increasing number of people with disabilities. And regardless of the level of society, unfortunately, there are more and more of them. Care for people with disabilities is indeed an important part of the social responsibility of this society. And our goal is to improve the quality of people with disabilities in order to really have all, all equal opportunities and rights in achieving their rights. If we look at international agreements, we say there are 270 different regulations here. However, all these international agreements talk about persons with disabilities. The principles and policy guidelines contained in the World Programme were also ahead of us in activities relating to persons with disabilities and standards, rules on equating these opportunities in terms of impacts on promotion, formulation, evaluation of political attitudes, plans, programmes and activities in order to equalise the opportunities of persons with disabilities at regional and international level. The Council of Europe's action plan to promote the rights and full participation of persons with disabilities is also talking about improving the quality of life of persons in Europe in 2006 to 2015 and was also one of the basis for the adoption of these laws as well as the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the UN signed by the Republic of Croatia on 30 March. We also remember the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was brought right here in this Croatian Assembly. However, despite all these adopted various documents and a series of regulations in charge of a number of state administration bodies, people with disabilities unfortunately face obstacles in society and often see themselves not equal to other healthy people. In literature, examples are that women and girls with disabilities are often more exposed to violence, encountering unadjusted building spaces, etc. However, this government does provide continued support in affirming rights and improving policies for people with disabilities. Examples are insurance funds to adapt students to blind and undersighted children, which is said here that the government has not done, and it has. He regularly implements counselling programmes for the self-employment of deaf women. She instituted a personal assistant to the pilot project. It implements an accessibility project, developed a programme of systematic psychosocial support for children who care for parents with disabilities, launched other pilot projects, and an example from the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, for example, in the development of accessibility of public facilities where a million and 499 thousand 969 kuna were spent in 2005. In 2006. 887 thousand kuna and only from the ministry, while, for example, from the Ministry of Health and Social Care for 97 projects, the Association of Persons with Disabilities in 2005 provided more than 5 million kuna, 56 persons with disabilities in 2006 provided 9 million and 900 kuna, and over 6.5 million kuna was provided for 80 projects of the Association of Persons with Disabilities. What I come from in my city is a truly successful example of the installation of the elevator on the occasion of the adaptation of a historic building, a military building in Bjelovar, where the elevators are installed in the yard annex or an example of the present ramp carried out at the Belgrade High School building as well as the ramps on the police administration in Bjelovar-Belogor County. So we have a large number of examples, but if I didn't list it, so from everything that's been done and said, the Ombudsman would have a truly co-ordinated, supervisory and advisory role. Following the implementation of laws, regulations, international contracts, co-operation with the authorities of the state administration and units of local and regional self-government, I truly believe that the Ombudsman for people with disabilities will contribute to an even greater sensitivity of the public on the rights of persons with disabilities and contribute to improving the quality of life. What I would like to emphasise is how to sensitize the public and how not only to call state institutions, not just to call the government, let's start from prevention, and prevention means family, from kindergarten and school to school. When we become so sensitized, there really won't be any irregularities like this that we often encounter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87317	Thank you. Dear Representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87318	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. I must express my satisfaction in fact that this bill came in the first reading, and I would be even more pleased to have a general debate on it. Why? The view has been announced as future laws that will regulate this area, a new law on guardians for students, for pensioners, and then, in the context of the discussion of the Data Securitisation Act, a debate should be opened whether the Ombudsman should be for information. We have a civil defender, we have a lawyer for gender equality, we have a guardian for children, so then take the Constitution and see in Article 92(4) that a public defender should protect people's rights in defence, armed forces, security services, local self-government, and I guess some should be a public defender who protects and the rights of workers, etc. etc. I want to say one very interesting question. I personally believe that the time has actually come to conduct a serious debate on the Law on the Ombudsman. Because our Constitution in paragraph 1 says very clearly: The Ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament which protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings before the state administration, bodies, etc. which in public government. I consider all of these cases that I have counted for which there is already a well-established occupier, or the establishment is announced, should also be protected in these segments by the civil rights of the public through the attorney general. But the question arises whether, in any case, when it comes to a particular structural relationship, a new edifice should now be needed, or whether administration, space, technique, information, etc. should be rationalised. so the money that we will release or which will be less spent, let's say, will be given, among other things, to help our disabled people who are almost 10% compared to the total population in the Republic of Croatia. Because what we're doing is completely irrational. This is completely irrational. We must once stop, discuss in this regard, and therefore I believe that the time has come to discuss changes and additions or the full adoption of a new Law on the Ombudsman and to ensure that the Ombudsman has not as much and as much as it needs a deputy to cover certain areas, that he has a common quality professional service because, among other things, if they are in the same place, they will exchange information and information that is necessary to ensure that, as far as possible, preparation for the protection of citizens' rights regardless of which specific situation they are in or whatever social layer or... they belong. That's the first thing I'd like to say. Another thing I'd like to say, of course, is that it should exist within the defense, but I think more as a deputy, not as a special institution and a person who will protect the specific rights of disabled people. However, there is one thing that we must first agree on at the legislative level, at the legislative level we should agree that the same categories of people with disabilities, regardless of the cause and manner of their disability, must have fundamental rights laid down equally by law. We can discuss additional rights, additional privileges related to certain status, etc., but we cannot discuss that the same degree of disability in a person is different from the basic rules. First, we have to resolve it, it won't be resolved by a single civil defender, it has to be resolved by the legislative body, and we need to catch up with a part of the reform that needs to be resolved in that segment. The second thing that we need to be aware is that one part of our disabled people is either created or on different grounds, but that the largest number of people with disabilities makes them practically disabled, that it's more than 100,000 of those with disabilities, or 109 thousand, and that about 197,000 people with disabilities appear from the aspect of the disease. In such a situation practically of 400 and how much here to say precise number 429 thousand and 421 we have practically over 200 thousand people with disabilities who are either for the reasons of illness or for the reason of disability at work and now the question is what we should actually do to protect health on the one hand and better protection at work ensure prevention that will prevent increased disability. That's the first one. Secondly, when we already have certain disabled categories, we must keep in mind that category of our citizens, their need and the need for legal regulation to create rights and obligations that can meet these needs. For example, a small shift in the Law on Electronic Media was needed to make it possible, in fact, to allow very different access to electronic media in a large category of disabled deaf and deaf. Fortunately, Croatia's broadcasting in this direction makes the first steps by interpreting certain news or passing for the deaf, etc., but why can't we have titled and films, why can't we have a whole series of activities that can be transmitted via electronic media and enable them to do so. Or, of course, the mass of things we can't provide because he doesn't hear for example, but why when we had the expenditure while he was still a telecommunication owned by the state, then we asked for it so we couldn't solve it, and I believe now that we were talking to telecommunications... faxes that are replaced by more modern, more modern means not to be shared with those of our disabled, deaf and deaf ones who will communicate so easily because they can read among themselves, etc. or why we do not allow them to communicate through SMS messages at a much simpler, much less price than is absolutely necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That society, the state doesn't cost much, and a terrible deal can help people. I'm just saying that as an illustration. We then have other things that are related to taxes, with tax obligations related to disabled aids and often some things that are still considered unfortunately in our premises not more like, still not as a need but as a luxury such as a car etc. We ignore that fact and then, of course, determine that I don't know the means of transport should be obtained without taxes or I don't know without customs duty one who has 75, or 80% I don't know now the degree of disability, or damage. Yes, and listen, what about all those others, especially if it is known that both regulations and practices in determining the degree of disability in us today. You know, I think it's necessary to do and consider it. What exactly am I trying to say? I mean, it's not enough to discuss this law, it's not enough to discuss the law that... regulates, rather than a whole series of laws that, in an indirect, indirect way, regulate social relations, we actually need to keep in mind in this category of our citizens, their needs, the specific relationships that are important and which need to be ensured that they can be equal in relations with all of us, who live in society and the social community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now a few objections to the law. The law wasn't so bad made, but you know it's not nice when we send a bill to Parliament that's actually visible after it's been prescribed, no one's ever read it again. The illustration works I will only take article 27 in which the Ombudsman says nicely for persons... the disability will be adopted by the Rules of Procedure referred to in Article 20 of this Act within 90 days of the date of entry into force. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no such Rules of Procedure in the law and none in Article 20. It is mentioned in Article 19. So if anyone had read it, you'd have read the part, you'd have seen it. So when the law was prescribed, he'd see it. So, you send yourself to the Parliament and you discuss it now, and it's actually showing up on one side a little bit if I may say a sloppy relationship with that. But then a more serious problem arises when taken, goes into the sphere of law and duty, such as Article 13 says if, in the exercise of office, the Ombudsman finds out that the person with disabilities is inside discrimination, violence, sex and abuse, abuse, ridicule, neglect or suspension is obliged to submit immediately to the competent state attorney's office, and what if it is a violation or I do not know of such or such a form... A failure, why would he have to go to the state's attorney's office right now and to that and to the state's administration? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think we should work it out. You know here are the numbered categories of legal all possible forms of discrimination that can have different levels of discrimination,... Look at the real thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it was necessary to further develop and clarify this in this segment, as the article also said in Article 24, on the other hand, that, for example, the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities ceases his mandate and, among other things,... A rightful conviction for a crime or, and now it's a new one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now it can be a traffic security crime, for which years, imagine a state official finishing, a representative, etc. The term of office shall be suspended if convicted by a judicial order of six months and more incarceration, any sentence shall cease here, his term of office shall cease for any criminal offence. I think there's still a little work to be done, to do this law, and in those segments there'd be a few more individual remarks, but here's too little time to say everything I want to say, so I'm going to give up... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87319	If it's economically time-consuming, then it's coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87320	And that's right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87321	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87322	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a Advocate's Law on Persons with Disabilities, as well as the establishment of this institution as a lawyer, and we see that we have an announcement from another lawyer. I think it's one serious institution, so that this is the end of the government's term with such serious things, you have to go with the bill. First of all, because of the need not only to create needs for something like this, because they have long been real, but first of all, material assumptions need to be created. They're not indicated to be created. However, the assessment and source of the necessary means to implement this law clearly shows that there is no speech yet but that these costs will bear or be burdened by any future government or administration. We are different sides, professional public and all kinds of public being constantly warned when laws are passed that they should first and foremost have a material basis in order to make their achievement possible and realistic at all. Since this is not the case, it is obvious that, with this proposal, the Ombudsman's law on persons with disabilities wants to be a public figure of particular concern for disabled persons. Speaking on behalf of the club Mrs Vesna Škulić, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, she pointed out a whole series of unresolved problems to which she personally and in the name of the SDP club spoke first of all about the need and the necessary need for equalising all persons with disabilities regardless of the origin of their disability. That hasn't happened until today. So despite some national programmes to improve the quality of life of disabled people, people with disabilities and now here we can see in reason that even in the final phase, the creation of a national strategy. So we're abound with the norm and that the actual position of these individuals has improved very, very little. The truth here and there may have been removed somewhere in these small barriers and barriers but in their real improvement, on their first need, about what their associations are constantly drawing attention to, the employment opportunities, there's no talking about it. And I think that all of our remaining energy in this mandate should have been used right here, for a few months to improve their actual position. And then establish this institution of attorneys for people with disabilities who will then keep an eye on whether these rights are actually being realized. What will and will be the role of counsel for people with disabilities? There's gonna be some shoulder to cry about where these people can complain to that person's attorney and nothing else or anything else. Even in that position is the institution of the occupier. Last year, when we adopted his report, we all agreed that he should have greater powers and more resources. The funds have even improved somewhat in this sense that it travels through Croatia and then has greater insight into human rights violations in the field, according to some of our regions, counties, cities, municipalities. But his real power, therefore, where he can react and not just whine and thus essentially be additionally frustrated with those who speak to him, therefore, did not happen. In fact, that one conclusion that we have on behalf of the SDP club has been rejected and asked that the real influence and role of the attorney-in-law be improved, and then I am telling the same thing now, and the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, there is no such thing. But how possible is the institution and real, and how will it begin with its work? Of course, when only a certain institution is established that it takes some time for it to be stalked and later obtained some results. But as we can speak, and on what grounds this institution will revive when it is already here, in the evaluation and sources of the necessary means to implement this law, it says that these funds will be secured in some future budget or budget for 2008, they are talking about funds somewhere around 2 and a half million kuna a year, half of which will be for employees' expenditure and 640 thousand kuna, you can see at all no way for renting space, material costs, communications, etc., literature, all of which is in one complex in this amount of 640 thousand kuna. So there's no and no space is secured. It reminds me of the exact situation of the '90s when the courts were founded in the same way. In Nina, among other things, in Povljana, in Prec, where it was just known that it would not work. And now we've got one quick turn, and then we're removing those vessels that never even worked. But it was quite a figure. And for many years these institutions have figured and here, the law established a court. And the fact that he never did anybody cared. We even had another absurd situation where in some cases the presidents of the courts who had been getting paid for years were appointed. I'm just saying this for comparisons and parallels. So, or parallels. You can't, and you shouldn't, if you really see it seriously, if you have a serious intention, to achieve the role and tasks of a lawyer to ignore funds in this way. It's going to be secured somewhere. The space isn't secure at all. So, does he have any serious will to revive his role in this law? I also note this because here is a recent international budget organisation from Washington, which publishes the results of national budget transparency research in certain countries every two years. So that's how we are this time classified from 59 countries investigated to 33 places by budget openness. We settled this time not between Burke's Paso but between Ghana and Malawi, and better than us, we even passed Kazakhstan, Tanzania, Namibia and Pakistan. For the tragedy to be greater, Slovenia is in an excellent 5th place right in front of the United States and Sweden. In doing so, of these 100 possible points, we received only 42 points according to transparency and preparedness to implement certain laws. Our wound cancer is not only that the Parliament has not accomplished its task in normative activity and law-making but also that we have not been able to implement and not only frequently because of the lack of political will and political climate but also often because of lack of funds or inadequately certain means. Therefore, here is also from this point 3 of the reasoning, or in the very proposal for a law, on page 3 where these evaluations of the necessary funds are discussed, it is in essence that this is one way of trying to figure out the public but that there is no real concern and that it cannot be if in this way it is figurative and wants to create an impression in the public. What my colleague Arlovic has drawn attention to, therefore, to see how this is essentially a good deed and to prescribe that law on existing lawyers, child defenders and lawyers for gender equality. In view of the fact that these articles have been wrong, this Article 27 does not apply and does not adopt the rules of procedure set out in Article 20 but in Article 19. And it should also be seen that this institution is an institution that has special protection in the Penal Code. Therefore, that these persons are placed in the ranks of the most protected and protected persons, and then, in parallel with this, the bill should go in that sense and amend the Penal Code which speaks precisely about the protection of those persons of the Ombudsman. Therefore, it is also necessary to amend the Penal Code, which must then lead to a level playing field for persons with disabilities with existing lawyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87323	Thank you. Replica is the respected deputy president of Mato Arlovic's home.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87324	Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Ingrid, you said so nicely. It turns out unfortunately in practice and by our legislation that our lawyers become just a shoulder to cry on. And that's how it's gonna be. Among other things, if you just look at the part-line and the mode of work referred to in Article 6 follow the compliance of the laws and regulations, monitor the implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia by means of an international contract, monitor the application of policies of national strategies, consider, worry, etc. In fact, a fundamental question arises when we will regulate the rights of the Ombudsman or his obligation as well as in the Constitution of Article 92 is set out in paragraph 1 that he protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings before the state administration and bodies with public authority. We actually need to open the question when the Advocate can initiate proceedings, when he can participate and especially in those cases when it comes to the Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms. I, for my part, must say that by reading this law I tried to compare it to Article 57(2). The Constitution and I can't find a very well-developed relationship compared to what the Constitution is looking for. And he says like this, I quote: "Special care of the state is dedicated to protecting disabled people and their involvement in social life.". If this is about the Ombudsman, let's see if it is possible for the public defender as an institution of the Croatian Parliament, established by the Croatian Parliament to ask these questions, to get an answer and that this is settled on the protection of disabled persons who were recently referred to by colleague Sobol and co-worker Škulić, from pay phone to toilet question, to a matter of mass of these things that would necessarily be necessary not only for us but for us as an example for all other state and public institutions, etc. to other matters of right, obligation and responsibility. So there's the essence of things. We simply need to understand that normativism will not solve a lot of issues, but the laws need to open up the right of the person in charge of realising it, that it has certain powers and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87325	Replicate-respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87326	Not only do you draw attention to your colleague Arlovic, you rightly draw attention to this provision in Article 57(2). The Constitution rather than the same as Article 64(3). The constitution tells people with disabilities that they have the right to special protection at work. But since this is an exception to their employment, so it would be a special luxury that the Constitution had in mind, and what we laws needed to solve, which is precisely this fact that their involvement in social life certainly implies, and that is a fundamental issue in the world of work. That a whole series of their status issues, what I have already and in the debate only mentioned that they require first and foremost the equalization of all persons with disabilities to never come to this. So, a whole series of necessary laws and amendments to the law in that direction are missing, and then the institution of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities would have to watch out for the implementation and possible violation of those laws, and this is not how the public defender can perform that role that the promoter here thinks is meant to improve the legal and real position of persons with disabilities. This can only be done by the content laws we have been talking about for years, which have not happened. Anyway, now all we have is a defense attorney who'll keep an eye on it but over what, there's an entire empty space.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87327	Dear representative Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87328	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia not that it is not running. At best, she taps into our place. We still have 300 thousand unemployed and about 11% poor. In such a situation, it is not unusual for some colleagues to claim that there is almost no group of citizens who would not need a lawyer or a lawyer except, of course, that small group that was in the right place at the time of conversion and privatisation and provided not only themselves but grandchildren and great-grandsons. Today, however, we are not talking about them, but about one of the weakest and most vulnerable groups of our society, the disabled. This bill shows that there are 429 thousand 421 people. They became invalid by birth by participating in World and Homeland War II, as disabled workers, from disease, in car accidents. So it's about people who are already cut off from people who are also living in a difficult situation because they don't have a job, have no pay and depend on the mercy of others. The government recognises this bill that some say 270, while some 280 regulations concerning the rights of persons with disabilities are not implemented, the Government by this proposal and by offering lawyers or lawyers for disabled persons admits that the competent institutions are not functioning. That the legal system does not work which we all know for a long time and expects the lawyer or lawyer to contribute to improving the position of disabled persons in society and to better and more effective protection of their rights. I wonder how? What powers? Here are the exposés of Sobol, Škulić, Anticevic, colleagues of Arlovic, visible that existing regulations are not being implemented. The government's Committee for Persons with Disabilities doesn't work or at least it doesn't work well. The Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund is the same. What's going on? Nothing. What happens if this practice of non-implementation continues? Nothing. The Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities will be able to coordinate, monitor and advise as said. The people will be able to complain and cry and cry, "Well, that is an injustice!" And we know it is, but that injustice will not be solved in this way. For the sake of constitutional provision, declarations, conventions, laws, national strategies. They can be perfect, but if they're partially or in no way going to produce results. We've learned so far that nothing happens to anyone. And when they happen to be in charge, the authorities of the state administration don't enforce the regulations that this High House brings that can be expected of others? From employers, I don't know, us who live next to those people or those next to us. Someone said, "We need to sensitize society." We need to become more sensitive. That's right. But no one's sensitivity should be allowed to decide on the life of anyone, especially the lives of a group of our citizens. It is necessary to respect the rule of law. It is necessary to respect its state institutions and it is necessary to learn that the law, whatever it is, is necessary to implement it. Only in that case can we expect some effect. And it would be good if those paid from the State budget for the implementation of these same laws and for the provision of a better quality life for all citizens of this country and for this group that because of what they get paid for and not doing withdrawal and some kind of sanctions. Otherwise, I'm afraid we're going to get another lawyer or attorney whose reports we're going to listen to once a year here, whether we accept it or not, to conclude that the situation is not good, but we're going to have to get more sensitive. One day, I guess we will. The state will continue to assume if this continues in a difficult economic situation and with good will it will not have enough money to carry out its obligations and the circle will still be closed. I don't know how much we've all thought about it, but I've had a chance to meet one of these people, so I figured out how happy we are because I saw that the height of a two-centimeter threshold to someone could be an insurmountable problem. These people have difficulty moving physically, have difficulties in education, and not to mention how difficult employment is because we are, as in most other things, victims of prejudice and on these issues. This is what we should really work on as a society to educate and bring one another closer because none of today's conditionalally said healthy are certain that tomorrow she will not be a disabled person. But if he doesn't, he has to do as much as he can to make life easier for that category of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87329	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87330	Thank you very much. I'd like to correct my colleague about the non-employment and the program the government allegedly doesn't have. Here's an example, one programme of measures that were established during the period,... 231 persons with disabilities employed through a programme intended for other target groups. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The maximum number of 170 persons is employed through a C2 programme relating to all unemployed persons registered in a minimum duration of 30 days. 48 persons employed through a programme intended to employ persons over 45 years of age and 50 years of age. And a series, a series was employed through the Croatian Employment Service 3 thousand 833 people. On average, about 1,100 people with disabilities from unemployment records are employed on average. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87331	And respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87332	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It is incorrect, my dear colleague, that Croatia is in place. Croatia, the Republic of Croatia is moving forward. Croatia was launched in 2003 and during the time you were stopped. Croatia has gained candidate status. Auto-roads are being run away. Unemployment has been reduced. In 2002 it was 22%, now it's 16%. Plinification of Croatia is 500km. I repeat, she's been granted candidate status. Retirement has been paid back. Equivalence of pensions is under way. The law on Croatian defenders in the report we talked about today, and unlike your coalition authorities, this authority has increased the state budget by 27 billion. The Ministry of Education and Sports is difficult to say in half a minute what is done, and first we did what we did and in the hope that this power with its laws and its work will reverse and turn the demographic picture of Croatia on which the future of the Croatian state depends. ... [[Applause.]] [[- Good job.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87333	Final Review State Secretary Stjepan Adamic. Here you go. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87334	And I can't cry over someone's fate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87335	Honored President, ladies and gentlemen. In the opening statement, I explained the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the need to adopt the Law on the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities. And everything the Government of the Republic of Croatia does to improve the lives of people with disabilities. The fact that in the last three years alone, this government has invested more than 42 million kunas clearly on projects by persons with disabilities. If this government had introduced pilot projects, it is exactly the 2006 pilot project for 78 persons and pilot personal assistant projects for 176 of the most difficult disabled persons in the Republic of Croatia where more than 12 million kunas were spent, it also speaks for itself. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has been guided by the legitimate requirements of associations which are also in the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities, by the fact that these associations have insisted and encouraged the adoption of the law that we are now talking about here, which we are talking about. She also did everything to improve the legal and real position of disabled people in the Republic of Croatia, which unfortunately has nearly 10% now in Croatia. It's to me, I've been carefully writing down all your suggestions. There are very constructive remarks, there are very constructive proposals. We wrote it all down here and I'll get a stenogram. We will try all of your proposals justifiable in this Law on Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities normally if they go to improve the lives of people with disabilities. But I would also point out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that is, our Domicile Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, is working on a national strategy that is already over, it is in the final phase and going to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So it's a national strategy for equating opportunities for people with disabilities from 2007 to 2015 that won't be full of phrases, but which will be precisely, decoded by who is doing what, what are the time periods and what are the sources of material resources for all these needs that these people unfortunately have with disabilities here. I thank you once again for your comments and suggestions. We'll take a closer look at it. We'll see what we can put in there and I think that this law will be corrected and it will be where and where good is and that Parliament will adopt that law in the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87336	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87337	Well, I have to correct the State Secretary's allegations. Mr. Secretary of State, the pilot projects have been launched by the past government. Please, nice! In 2003, when a single policy implementation strategy was adopted for disabled people began with pilot projects. The project is that you are still only doing pilot projects, and you cannot translate them, and pilot projects into concrete legal ones. So, through legislation, because now only members of individual associations can participate in these pilot projects, please, and this should be highlighted. And secondly, it's not true that this government is doing everything possible for people with disabilities. A strategy unique to policies for people with disabilities. Since 2003 and 2006, please be honest, look at what this government hasn't done. Almost everything that's written there with the exact deadlines and the bearers this government has broken. Besides, that's what the reports of your government commission tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-04-25-0.u87338	I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with discussion of the government's interpretation of work on the use of pre-accession funds of the European Union, point 4 and as follows. Now why tonight? If you want, we'll arrange a debate for you in particular. Second, the draft law on the Ombudsman for disabled persons. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposed law is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 94 votes for and 2 abstentions and 1 against the accepted proposed conclusion.
