ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82921	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Allow a few introductory sentences. The Law on Railways has been in force since 1 January 2006. It regulates the structure of the railway system on the principle of detachment of rail transport from railway infrastructure, which has thus obtained public goods status in general ownership, general use owned by the Republic of Croatia. In order for the railway system to be established on the stated principle of detachment of transport from infrastructure at the end of 2005 the Law on the division of Croatian railways d.o.o. In accordance with the provisions of that law, the Government decided on 6 July to divide the company into 4 companies: the management, maintenance, construction of railway infrastructure and the transport of passengers. And for the carriage of cargo and for the towing of trains. In the plan of division which is an integral part... Decisions have also established a list of land, facilities and devices that make up the railway infrastructure and are public good in general use owned by the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the purpose of managing and making available to the real estate identified as a public good in the general application of Article 38, The Law on Railways provides for the possibility of permanently withdrawing public goods status in general use if there is no public interest and interest in users of services on such properties. In accordance with the article of the Law on Railways, the decision to withdraw the status of public goods in general shall be adopted by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for the removal of public goods status to real estates under this proposal was launched by the Croatian Railway Company in early December 2006 in order to privatise the dependent companies of the Croatian Railways, which is a prerequisite for the second programme loan for the adjustment of the PAL2 of the World Bank. The privatisation of Croatian railway companies is carried out by the Croatian railways in accordance with the government's decision of 9 June 2005, and according to the programme and dynamics established by the Croatian railways on the basis of the government's stated decision. In order for the Croatian Railways to prepare the subsidiaries of the privatisation programme in accordance with the provisions of the Privatisation Act and transpose them, they should be transferred to the Croatian Privatisation Fund for Management and according to the established programme and dynamics, it is necessary to prejudge the status of public goods in the general use of the properties listed in this Decision, proposed by the Government for the adoption of the Croatian Assembly. These properties will be recapitalised by the dependent companies of the Croatian Railways, which will then be privatised. This sets out the reasons and the need to make the proposed decision and the justification of this very decision is explained by the following facts: There is no public interest and the interest of the transport user and the public transport service user on the part of the railway infrastructure proposed to withdraw the public goods status in the general application. The real estate in question is functionally not represented by the railway infrastructure both now and in future railway development plans and are now mainly used as the property of the isolated companies of the Croatian Railways which are scheduled for the previously mentioned privatisation process under PAL2 loans. The following is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to accept the reasons and purpose of its adoption and to make the decision in the proposed text in consideration of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82922	Thank you. Maritime, Transport and Communications Committees, Constitution, Rules of Procedure and political system. Oh, no? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82923	Mr. President, gentlemen representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Railway Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2006, sets up a railway system on the principles of detachment of rail transport from railway infrastructure. According to the law in question, railway infrastructure is granted public goods status in general use owned by the Republic of Croatia, which can be used by all interested railway undertakings under equal conditions. For the purpose of the implementation of the structure of the railway system on the basis of the division provided for by the Law on Railways, the Law on the division of trade companies of the Croatian Railways d.o.o. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on the division of Croatian railway companies d.o.o. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Decision on the division of the Croatian Railway Company d.o.o. which is in the plan of division and which is an integral part of that decision. It established a list of land, facilities and arrangements that make up the railway infrastructure and are publicly well in general use owned by the Republic of Croatia. And they do not become property of companies formed by the division of companies HJO d.o.o. The real estates which are the subject of the adoption of this Decision on the removal of public goods status in the general application of the part of the railway infrastructure are included in the real estate of the Republic of Croatia through the distribution plan of the company HZ. Proposal for the removal of public goods status in general use, part of rail infrastructure, and in accordance with Article 38 thereof. The Law on Railways was directed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the company HZ d.o.o. i.e. the company of the Croatian Railways infrastructure d.o.o. in the establishment. As a legal follower of the Croatian Railway Company d.o.o. for the management, maintenance and construction of railway infrastructure. The reasons for the need to adopt a decision on the withdrawal of public goods in the general application of a part of the rail infrastructure owned by the Republic of Croatia are necessary for the following reasons. There is no public interest in the part of the railway infrastructure proposed to take away public goods status in general, the interest of public transport users. The property in question is functionally not a rail infrastructure, both in future work and rail infrastructure plans. The properties are now mostly used by isolated companies of the Croatian Railways. The real estates that form part of the railway infrastructure, which are the subject of the adoption of this decision, HZ infrastructure intends to capitalise the daughters of HZ infrastructure through the transfer of the property in question to the core capital of these subsidiaries in accordance with the plan and dynamics of privatisation established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the privatisation of the subsidiaries of the Croatian Railways from 9 June 2005, resulting from the obligations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take over the PAL with the World Bank loan. For these reasons, and which we have cited in advance, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club welcomes this decision. He thinks it's good, that it's the beginning of the recapitalisation of companies that will be ready for the competition, which was the decision of the previous government in 2005, in 2001, but has never been implemented in action. With this decision, society is preparing for a competition. The Croatian Democratic Community club will also support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82924	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82925	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. You don't always have to question bad intentions, I don't know, governments and ministries. I also want to believe that the backgrounds are positive. However, on the basis of this argument that we have received little is possible to see. I also personally hold that the law should be supported, especially if it, as I am experiencing it, enables former tenants, such as railwaymen, engineers, those who maintain these railways, etc. Let's say they get to their apartment. We see on this Appendix 1 that this is about some big buildings. Here are the areas, cultures, cadastral particles that are present in the team and these catastrian municipalities enlisted in z.k. cartridges, etc. and then we see that these are buildings that are located, or good, in the area of the Catastrian Municipality of Center, I assume it is Zagreb, Jakushevac, Osijek, Trnje, Vinkovci, etc., etc. There are, among other things, two hotels under 3rd and 4th hotel with an area of about 9000 792 square meters, probably its garden and hotel located, "Mursa" in Osijek with 2000 276 square meters. I would really like to know what was the purpose of these hotels, or these buildings so far, and what fate they will have tomorrow. I suppose that, for example, Croatian railway facilities cannot market valorise and that they should be privatised for economic activity in order to first of all their market affirmation. However, I would take this opportunity to say that still some Istrian families have not come to the apartment where they lived, I am talking about the railways that they or their ancestors lived in for 30, 50, 60 years. They're known to be so-called. Istrian railways were run like Slovenian railways since '45. '90s. Or '91. A year. Only at the end or the beginning of 2000 between Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia are these property issues being resolved, and only then do the Istrian railways contract to buy their apartments. It happened that some tenants before that contract were given the opportunity to conclude simply death and that today their heirs could not acquire an apartment where their father, mother, lived for 40, 50, or 60 years. I believe that these people seem to be wrong, that it should be corrected. Because the opportunities were normal with regard to these railways to the apartment as well as the other 400 thousand Croatian citizens in late '91. or in the middle or early '92. And those facilities, the apartments, they would have won by 7.8 thousand marks. So the question is, what about those people who live in apartments like that? Shall we correct the injustice against these families? Can Croatian railways help them in any way today? I believe it's their fault that they're the only ones, or so much as the Istrian railroads until '91. I mean, I don't know, since the end of '90. the years were part of the Slovenian railways and what the problem had to be solved between the two governments, and then when that problem rises to that level, the problem lasts, lasts and never solves. We heard from the secretary of state that these properties will be recapitalised by the Croatian railway. There's no explanation for that. However, there is no estimate of how much it will be the next day if these cadastar particles are sold to Croatian railways. If they knew how much money it would bring, we'd be more determined. Although I said I don't doubt the fair intentions of the Ministry or the Croatian Railways. A moment ago, the question was raised in the benches whether it was a process or a first step in privatising Croatian railways. I don't believe in such a scenario, at least not for the duration of this government's mandate and at least not when it comes to these properties, because it's really 15 objects and it's certainly nothing respectable that should be taken into account in particular. But it simply shouldn't be ignored by fear of, say, potential abuses. Because we see there are houses, there are buildings, there are hotels, 7 buildings and courtyards in Trnje, two buildings, two buildings, a yard, a house etc., etc. However, the same interesting question is what will happen to the Croatian railways the next day. Unfortunately, we are all afraid that they will follow the fate of INA, HT, Croatia's insurance, etc. I would, however, advocate that the railways remain in the hands of the Croatian state until further notice. As far as the law itself is concerned, not the law, but the decision to take public goods status in the general use of part of the railway infrastructure, I don't think it's disputed to accept it in this form. But it would be good to give an aproximative assessment of how much money it can bring to the Croatian railways or to the Croatian state. Or what happens to tomorrow's possible privatisation of the Railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82926	Thank you. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82927	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. So on the occasion of the adoption of the 2004 Law on Railways, only club HSP and Mr. Slaven Letica pointed out what is now coming to us, it came to the benches, which is that the process of taking away public goods in terms of privatisation and sales will be opened, and apparently it has started, always moving on to this variant that there is not much to suspect, but when this process and the course is opened then this is being upgraded. There should be two different situations, because I said it could go so that even one day it could come that the main station would also take away the status of public goods, because there was someone looking. So unfortunately, it will happen if we do not agree here in the Croatian Parliament that we are establishing an ethical commission of Parliament which will always mean before such decisions and come to the meetings of the Croatian Parliament, to carry out an insight and give approval so that what happens in the conversion and privatisation in the Croatian way does not happen there. Although at first glance, they say there's nothing interesting here, but let's just say the question of who the hotel "Mursa" will go to in Osijek. Whether it's already agreed or it'll be agreed afterwards. Therefore, Croatian citizens and we MPs have a negative experience with conversion and privatisation. This is what we have warned in this law, that Pandora's box will be opened and that it will allow for not only buildings, buildings but also real estate where they will work trade chains or various commercial lobbys or construction lobbys that we must be aware of, begin to manage within cities, take an example of the city of Zagreb and slowly take over within the state itself and slowly condition what and how executive power will be done and even go so far as to lobby and at the level of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, we have no objection to the sale of dwellings to families who have normally worked throughout the lifetime in the Croatian Railways and who must have the right not to be in an unequal position compared to other Croatian citizens who are the basis of the fact that they had the right to buy out those apartments that were socially owned. But for these other situations when taking the status of public goods, we can't exactly and the Priory agree to such situations, so if you want to work to have confidence, first of all, let's establish this five-member ethical commission in the Croatian Parliament that will always review everything and then we can also send a good message to Croatian citizens that this course and procedure will not take place unfortunately in a way that is known as conversion and privatisation in Croatian way. So this is the part that many public companies have already done, and Mr. Cain here is wrong because they've singled out so-called. daughters and such companies have already entered that part of the privatisation in Ina and elsewhere in large systems. Therefore, we cannot accept this decision. We cannot accept this course of the whole procedure unless we have a guarantee that someone behind this will be hiding that a new process of insinuation does not begin in Croatian and that, on behalf of some of the greater interests, what has already happened in conversion and privatisation will happen. So we can't support something that's invisible. We can support it when it comes to railways, families, but these situations, these other situations, we can't support. We'll get it, today we've got one decision with a table, tomorrow we'll get another one, the day after tomorrow the third, and then we'll start losing our attention, and under the little door, it'll all be happening, and maybe even in different times, it'll be dealt with by regulations with by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82928	Thank you. The HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82929	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm also trying to say that the HSS can support this proposal, but it can support it in a second reading. For what? Here we have received a shrewd explanation, i.e. a proposal for a decision that actually if we rule out this introductory part and the title page, it contains only three pages of text where we say we are subtracting the status of public good in general use. It is written that the decision looks and counts items that contain both buildings and building land and even implies the railway. What we would like to see in the second reading is certainly the size of these land objects and the rest that is sold, we would also like to see the value. It's unusually important that it says here what it's worth. I suppose that at least accounting estimates exist if not something else, but in any case there should be a construction expert, because if the only Parliament is competent to make such a decision then the Parliament should be aware of all the details. Thirdly, what we would like to know, which is the purpose of these objects, is whether they are transmitted as physically as they say or are intended to be sold, and then enter into a limited liability society that is part of the railway. It is not too difficult to write, although we believe that every company that receives objects or an equivalent would be financially if the facilities were sold, we would have to know. What is important about this purpose, and especially for the HSS club, is whether we are to keep our jobs in the railway or whether we are going to increase the number of jobs if these companies continue to operate in these facilities or possibly something else. If, in physical form, we pass it on to companies, there should certainly be a ban on selling in at least a shorter period in order to meet its objective. We are fully aware of the fact that the Croatian railway has stopped in its restructuring. We are fully aware that rail infrastructure must be singled out and that we must resolve the status of employees and those properties that are not "core business" in one way or another. However, I will remind that the Law on Croatian Railways itself has provided for the separation of several companies, however, the Republic of Croatia took over credit commitments on that occasion. She took over what the railroad was in charge of, and here in this proposal, we don't know what's going on. We give the property of the Croatian Railways to someone. Whether or not commitments will be made in this way, whether the continuity of contracts concluded in relation to business in these facilities will continue or will not, and many more unknowns, better said too many unknowns are ahead of us and that we may make a decision like this in the first way. We should remove all these dilemmas to properly understand rail infrastructure from other real estate and in a more transparent way. I'm guessing these aren't the only properties that are supposed to get this kind of status, that's to take away their public welfare status, and there's no reason why we're not going to another reading. Our rail infrastructure consists of a large number of properties. These properties include a large part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This is important not only from traffic but also from the aspect of the great wealth and value of the Republic of Croatia as a whole. It is therefore extremely important to define and establish clearly the concept and boundaries of railway infrastructure, the way in which the protection and registration of land books is used and managed. This is one of the small steps towards privatisation. Finally, I want to say that HSS is not against such a problem-solving because we know that railways are still burdened with problems. We accept that it's part of the restructuring. However, in order to be able to make a decision, the proposal that takes away the status of public goods in general use must be better quality. It must contain at least 30 pages instead of 3 pages to convince us that this is the best solution and to convince us that this solution will give effect. How will it be better if we apply this status of public goods to the Croatian railways themselves, as well as to the people who work in the railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82930	Thank you. Dear Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Slaven Letica, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82931	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State. When, if you remember correctly, you proposed the Reorganisation Act a little with the high spoke to the Croatian MPs. We later clarified this misunderstanding, and somehow I was sincerely hoping that your ministry would no longer appear in this High House with Croatian representatives of offensive decision-making proposals. First of all, I think that Croatia should adopt a special law, first of all, on the withdrawal of public goods status on general use which would apply to all, all public goods which are deprived of that status. That's the first thing. As there is a Law on Public Procurement, there should obviously be a Law on Public Sales because it is quite unquestionable that what I was talking about will be realized, which is that large systems will be built up. And it's going to be inn first of all pocket money, and then it's going to be inn in large dimensions. You must provide us with an assessment of the court's market values of these facilities, we must have a guarantee, and a competition. I'm against having public property based on decisions, guidelines, regulations, orders, whatever you want. I already have a few examples of the so-called problem. a public private partnership that there have been major abuses. To exempt goods from public interest, let's say the MORH and other institutions. Some privates, for example, are offering to build sports halls and do so in such a way that they are offered space and elite spaces in the city. Investor so-called The private partner then offers to the public, for example, the use of these spaces in the morning, while performing their commercial exploitation. In this regard, as a minimum, I would like your testimony on this proposal, which was presented by a respected colleague Kovacevic. I don't even think there has to be a commission. I have a concrete example, or suggestion, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, that we appoint an ad hoc commissioner of the Parliament who will be one man, and I mean Mr. Herman Vukusic the Elder. A man who is family in 3 generations of railways, who was head of finance and director of the financial sector in the Croatian Railways for probably 35 years, who is the most tropheric Croatian coach in history. A man you know and family. I'd like to see him there because then I'd be sure that the fraud won't come. I have no guarantee that the Western station will also very soon not be exempt from the status of public goods because the traffic opportunities in the City of Zagreb have changed and it is becoming almost too high, and it could also be converted and privatised in a similar way. Therefore, there are more important things to be done, by excluding and moving the railway line from the city center to a far-reaching periphery. In the city center, not only of this city, but of all the cities it built, in which the Austro-Hungarian monarchy built railways would have gained tens of millions of square meters of useful space. The descent into the underground rail systems would also take place. So Croatia, and I talked about it under the cover of the night since my point was late on the agenda last year, Croatia has drawn closer to the period of the absolute debt crisis and the pressure to sell that family gold, silver and diamonds that our ancestors created will increase from day to day, and I ask you to read about the concrete proposal to appoint Perman Vukusic as Commissioner in a specific case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82932	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82933	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you not for your constructive remarks regarding this proposal. Let me try to answer most of the questions you asked in your discussions and hope to receive satisfactory answers. So, what kind of real estate are these, it's in favor of the fact that only real estate can be described. Therefore, according to the description of the cadastrian municipality in which it is located, the indication of the cadastrian particle, culture and therefore enough data to be easily available thanks to valuable steps in the informationisation of cadastres and grantovnicas, even by the Internet, to gain insight into other details that are interesting about certain properties. So we felt that we had given enough details about real estate, that parliamentary representatives and all interested parties could further convince and collect enough information and other real estate data that were the subject of this decision. A total of 15, or 15, are 13 in Zagreb, 1 in Vinkovci, 1 in Osijek, and indeed, if necessary, we can provide additional information. However, I will respond immediately to the second reading initiative. Unfortunately, this initiative cannot be accepted simply because of the dynamics of this decision, which is related to the realisation of PAL 2 loans, the loan of the Republic of Croatia to the World Bank in which, with the World Bank's understanding, we have already received and managed to agree on a delay for technical reasons because of these property relations procedures, and simply cannot wait any longer with the transfer of real estate, by removing its real good, by transferring it to dependent societies and transferring these dependent societies to the Croatian Fund for Privatisation, Labour and Privatisation. As far as the housing issues discussed by the esteemed parliamentary representative, Mr. Caine, the Istrian railwaymen, as well as all other railwaymen, of course, still have some unresolved problems that have been being dragged away for decades, we are prepared, of course, and more specifically, on the basis of more detailed information that you would like to give us and individual cases to consider with special attention, and of course and systematically solve this problem within the Croatian Railways, primarily the administration of Croatian Railways and parties, because this is actually done in property law relations. Fear of poor or good privatisation, unfortunately from this pay phone and these positions cannot be denied or it is even meaningful to engage in such a debate. I can only say that the properties that are the subject of this decision will be transferred to society in order to privatise these addictive societies. In order for the situation to be a little clearer, let me point out that there are 17 dependent societies in the Croatian Railways or so on. daughters of Croatian Railways founded since '98. the first and until the end of 2003 the last and in which 6 thousand 500 people are working today in a total system of 22 thousand people in the Croatian Railways. In these three societies that are the subject of today's decision, for the sake of a thousand and 89 employees. It is simply the second stage of the process of detaching noncor businesses from the Croatian railways. The first stage was carried out by the very fact that subsidiaries, i.e. subsidiaries of daughters, were founded and transferred to them and people, unfortunately not property, and this decision corrects them. And if such a procedure and such an intention is justified enough just to say that you will agree to believe in rail hospitality. So, the company that has hotels, which has properties related to its activity we really must agree not much about the basic activity of the Croatian Railways, which is infrastructure and operations in transport. You will also agree that I believe that another company named RVR for service activities d.o.o., behind the RVR is hiding, i.e. RVR means redistribution, fire and crucible. In this decision you have, therefore, seen already by the name of the culture of the nursery. You will agree that even wastelanding should not be further activities of the Croatian Railways and that such activities make sense and logic and, of course, allow them to develop on their own. I can also conclude that this year, by the end of the year, 6 other companies will be prepared for the separation, for the transfer to the Croatian Privatisation Fund for privatisation, and that we will meet with a similar decision, but with a more extensive number of real estate very soon again in this House. Unfortunately, I cannot be specific about the names and staff issues of people who could help certain operations here, but we are prepared to consider, of course, any quality initiative that can contribute to prosperity and better procedure, as well as this process. There's no concern when we talk about obligations and loans. Namely, the credit obligations of the Croatian Railways are fully covered and serviced by the Republic of Croatia. In total, these commitments currently amount to around 4 and a half billion kuna, about 600 million kuna per year, are served by the state credit obligations of the Croatian Railways. I hope that I have managed to respond to most of the key remarks based on this bill, or this decision, and that you will support them when voting on it Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82934	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision on the withdrawal of public goods status in the general application of part of the railway infrastructure. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 82 votes for, 1 abstention, 2 against the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82937	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia has reached huge proportions. At this point we have registered 31 thousand and 600 different associations and each day that number increases. This is of course a reflection of Croatian traditions and also evidence that civil society in the Republic of Croatia is well developed because it lives and acts in a favourable political and legal environment. In order to improve the development of civil society and to make it a transparent financing of the programmes of associations which have programmes of interest for the common good, the Government proposes and the basis of the Association Law to establish the Code of Positive Practices, Standards and criteria for achieving financial support to programmes and projects of associations. This code has long been developed, it has been debated by the bodies concerned, discussed by associations, discussed by the Civil Society Development Council, and that is where we have balanced the principles that we believe are necessary in order to award public funds in a public, transparent way to associations that promote general interest and whose programmes are of general interest. In terms of criteria, I must say that all of this must be predetermined, which are priorities for next year, that a public tender must be opened, that the bodies must form commissions to carry out that public tender and which will open the tenders received, that the evaluation of the programme must be carried out by expert bodies, all programme participants and those who have succeeded in the competition but also those who do not have to provide a written reply. Furthermore, the results of the invitation to tender must be made public and contracts must be concluded after the completion of the tendering procedure within 60 days. It is very important to point out that public funds will also be under public control. We will not allow him to run with a single programme that meets the criteria of the law and this code and that the funds are being spent in another way, unintendedly. It is therefore the obligation of the programme manager to report to the grantor the means in which he spends the funds he has been provided. And it also provides for a sanction that further funding of the programme will be abolished if the funds are spent... They may be nominated for a competition entered in the Register of Associations of the Republic of Croatia, which promote the values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and which carry out activities aimed at the needs of the community and the preservation of sustainable development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The role of the Civil Society Development Council to monitor the implementation of all these programmes is also highlighted. Of course, we want this code to be applied to the financing of the programmes of associations financed from local and regional budgets because we believe that public funds, regardless of whether they are concentrated in the state budget or in the regional budget or the budget of units of local self-government, must be spent according to the rules laid down by this Croatian Parliament. We believe that the code-making process guarantees its quality because it involved those who will run tomorrow with their programmes and those who have to exercise supervision. We therefore propose that the Croatian Parliament round up the normative arrangement of civil society in the Republic of Croatia to strengthen civil society development as an important element of public activity in every civilised and democratic country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82938	Thank you. The committees? The Constitution, the Business, the political system, the human rights and the rights of national minorities? I'm opening a debate. HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82939	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! Well, first of all, we don't understand why this bill even bears the name code. We know what's in the legal theory and practice code. This isn't any code. This belongs to the Decision on criteria for achieving financial support, programmes and projects of associations. It's not a code at all. And if you wanted to make a code, then you'd have to answer two important questions first. What's an NGO today? What is the meaning of an NGO in Croatia today if it is financed by programmes or funds from the government itself? So the expression of NGOs and getting budget funds from the government, I don't know how much it can go together. Another is the same problem as the NGO in Croatia, which is financed by other governments, which is not a very common phenomenon out there? So we have NGOs that are funded so over, I'm going to talk about those that get even somewhere, some and 80%. Let's say those who receive over 50% of the funds from other governments. Now these things were supposed to be regulated exactly in the code. What does that mean? What are these programs and what else? Be careful when you receive funds, for example, by government, you will automatically have to get some software assignments that will suit that foreign government. We have had cases of individual associations that, through such funding, have tried to carry out some tests in Croatia for the needs of these foreign governments, from which they received funds so that Croatia would be a test range for some solutions that these countries and governments did not carry out with them, but that is to say, they took the Croatian test range for various solutions. E such or similar things should also be contained in this code. If the code is then let's start with associations, with experiences that we have exactly what are NGOs? Then let's make a code of conduct without restricting their actions and everything else. But one part that every democratic state should have its own rules of conduct and, above all, this funding ratio by foreign governments and activities in Croatia. What is this and how can this be done from the aspect of this, say, of the advice itself? Council for Civil Society Development. Why should this counsel not also consider the issue of obtaining funds in some part of the other meanings of foreign governments? So I think this should have been far better designed. I know it's hard to do from a level when talking to representatives of associations. They normally always have their own movie, which is fine. That's why they were founded. They have their own goals. They're registered as associations. And they're going to try as little normatively as possible, limit themselves, and on the other hand, they're going to get as much funding for these various programs as possible. Now that we're talking about this Civil Society Development Council, we know the Jadranka Siegelj case itself, the security check case. And then you should have said it here. The Council for Civil Society Development will security check or not be carried out? If you want to run a security check, then there was a place here. There are both outside and in America and in all other modern countries where there are various and different tips and places where it is known in advance whether security checks will be carried out or not? So here it should have been said that we finally break the doubt that members of the Civil Society Development Council are not subject to, say, a security check. Or subject to security clearance. Now that we're talking about it, we're supposed to figure out who might be looking for a security check for them? Surely the Head of the Office cannot ask for a security check for members of the Council appointed by the Government because it is known how and how the rules are arranged and the logic of thinking both outside and everywhere. And it's inadmissible that these or similar affairs appear, and that it doesn't end up being resolved or we know everything that Mrs. Jadranka Cigelj has gone through and I don't think it's as good as these affairs are. Under quotes from the affair that we're re-created this part of paranoia. They're all tapped. We send a bad message to Croatian citizens. We draw attention from important topics that are very easy to identify and do. If there's any evidence to be presented, let's do our part. If it is not done then we can raise to a higher level, the level of the public but that part means speculation and everything else only in creating some kind of name, and we know for ourselves how much trouble there has been so far and they are finally services as much as they cost on some level of professional level, although it is not yet the level that we all want and which is normally believed and the security services themselves are more difficult. That is why, or thus, we prevent them from doing their jobs, and normally any abuse should be sanctioned in due time, but it is the worst way to create such an unhealthy climate. Everyone's listening again, again, but there's a situation. Apparently, some would just want to get into the media in such a way. So I think it would be wiser if this part of the real code, if we want to regulate the code as a code, and if you want it to be just about funding, then make your own amendments and change that to the proposal for a decision on criteria to support financial programmes because this is not any code. We need to be aware of that and real. We know what the code is. In certain areas, professional organisations and elsewhere there are codes. The codes are such that they regulate correctly, so if we want to have a code, then I say we need to start by regulating the issue of what is the NGO in Croatia today? What are the behaviors? Normally, we don't change and deny their activity, and how can it be an NGO if it gets money from the government? And then how can it be an association, what is the relationship of associations that means most of their resources, financial support is being received from foreign governments. Otherwise, you do not feel that foreign governments will be happy to accept that their associations are being financed because we know what it means when it comes to obtaining from foreign governments. And here, then I need to be realistic so that the intelligence community can also be considered. It's out there like that. We don't have to say anything about it that's not such a variant. We had experience in Croatia that during the Homeland War we had some associations that allowed mujahedins to arrive in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We all know what the situation was, and how did these associations, how did they work? And they also received support and money from some countries where Al'Quida was connected and everything else. So we had this situation that associations acted, under quotes that had neither a goal nor an operation as an association but had a completely different situation. We know this best during the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina and how many such associations were and how much it worked. So let's make a code that's going to be a code. We won't limit anyone, but we need to make some rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82940	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82941	Your Honor, Mr. President, I think the incorrect claim is to be made by this code whether or not security clearance is required? I think this should be done by deciding to set up advice on civil society development, which is the government's decision because the government is in fact setting up a Council for Civil Society Development Associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82942	For the HDZ Club, respected representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82943	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support this Code of Positive Practices of Standards and criteria for achieving financial support to programmes and projects of associations. Because he's in the text and this proposal that we've been given in some way follows a positive practice so far. The adoption of this Code will establish clear, transparent and uniform principles of conduct in approving financial support to projects and programmes of associations of general and public interest. In short, this Code represents a united positive practice developed since the draft 1998 by the Association Office, which will provide a quality framework for the functioning of the state administration body in the process of approving financial support to the programmes and projects of the association of particular interest for the general good in the Republic of Croatia. This also guarantees a more rational management of public money and efficient use of available funds to create a better quality environment and services for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Financial support providers shall act in accordance with the provisions of this Code for the effective, rational and transparent use of funds. The process itself of approving financial support is based on the following principles. That's setting priorities for funding. It's a call for mandatory public competitions. It's the commission's opening of received applications. This is the assessment of the notified projects and programmes by the expert bodies established by the financial support providers. This is mandatory delivery of written response to the participants of the competition, public publication of the results of the invitation to tender, mandatory conclusion of the contract and of course monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of approved programmes and projects. There may be a population of dilemmas here that should be clarified or clarified, e.g. what with the objective needs that will arise during the year and did not prove necessary at the moment when the public tender itself is called. Then it may be clearer to define where the text of the public tender itself will be published, whether it must be in "The People's Newspaper" or in the daily press or something like that. And perhaps closer to clarifying the criteria as well, since any working body or commission that is composed of, among other things, potential beneficiaries of, may also be subjective in their decisions and that members may be able to share part of, among other things, the part should be specified in certain provisions or acts which they may later give in order to avoid, possibly, all of this ambiguity. I think it is important to note that you and this item which says that the financial support provider will abolish further financing of the approved support and request the repayment of the funds in the event that the association unwittingly spends the funds of the approved financial support. And one more thing I think is important to say. The provisions of this Code will also apply accordingly to the approval of financial support to programmes and projects of associations and budgets of units of local self-government, i.e. units of regional and regional self-government. In view of certain experiences and problems in practice that have arisen so far, I think that they should be shown above all because of the growing number of associations, because of the increasing activities that these associations are carrying out, so they are growing needs, and at least at local level, this applies, of course, to the state level, the funding of the association's programmes is still quite limited. However, as I said in the introduction, with all these dilemmas that should possibly still be clarified or possibly subsequently completed, the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives Club supports the adoption and adoption of this Code because it follows all the positive practice that has proved to be effective so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82944	Thank you. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82945	Honorable President, esteemed Secretary of State. Here is a moment ago Mr Hrelja noticed, so in a debate behind this proposal, the Code has a positive practice of standards for achieving financial support to programmes and projects of associations. However, there are neither the practices, nor the standards, nor the standards themselves. However, I would also start where Mr. Kovacevic stopped, that because of what one of the Adriatics did by sending intelligence services to carry out intelligence checks on civil society activists, they should send one and the other to a lie detector, disband in the meantime secret services that are not able to do anything secret but anything that they can do publicly and bring a clear law and tax code upon whom they can, i.e. One who's not allowed to have a secret background check. And clearly someone might eventually be resolved. I have no illusions, as Pero may say, that part of civil society is a big business. I stress the part, according to the associations themselves, their annual budgets amount to 136 million kuna per year. This is more than all the political parties represented in this Parliament and outside Parliament show in their annual incomes. In order for some associations to justify money received, especially from abroad, there should also be no illusions. They must first satisfy the interests of their financiers. And he who claims otherwise lies simply. There's nothing for nothing in this country or anywhere in the world. On the other hand, some organizations have done a huge job for all of us in this country. To change stereotypes that ruled in Croatia, and above all here I mean the HHO or the Croatian Helsinki Committee. HHO literally changed certain stereotypes in Croatia. They are dominantly funded from the outside, but they also stayed on their own. Many associations I said have bigger budgets than IDS, starting with GONG, B.a.b.a. etc. And let them have it. And the influence of some of them is far greater, above all, through Croatian broadcasting. But what I resent is politics, more specifically shouting, holding a thief so that maybe they can do what they want and that's also true. Here comes Mr. Hrelja. He knows that very well. Recently in Istria, perhaps seven days ago, the Association of Consumers in Pula not to speak details now, they fought, the background of the distribution of 280 thousand kuna. Often, many of them from the media to the association, etc. who understandably are 100% solid, call politics so that they can do whatever they want. I absolutely don't idealize politics. Policy has or controls two-thirds of the gross social product. However, the opposition to that cake is almost nothing again. Far away I say they have more associations, or media. But no matter what, associations need to be financially monitored, they need to be co-financed. Associations should not be instrumentalised, and as Mr Djakic is not here, he often works with individual defence associations. It's just bad. We can help them. We can't instrumentize them. I'd like to ask Mr. Palaric a question on this occasion. Is it possible for someone to remember tomorrow and pass the law that the association can make up at least 5,000 members? How would you say Mr. Palaric react? They would claim that Croatia is a civilized country, that it cannot go below some of the standards of these same civilized countries and that the rule of law in Croatia and that retroactive application of the law will not apply. However, now that someone in the government is ready to defend themselves in the case of the Political Party Act, which is now required by the parties to legislate with 5,000 members. We in some way, as the president of this House said in an interview, introduce the principle of retroactivity into public life. So for the robbery in conversion there is no retroactiveness, for the robbery of defence money that has been carried out outside the country there is no retroactiveness, for the most serious crimes of war crimes there is no retroactiveness but for the parties there is this retroactive application of the right no matter what I mention it once again, in one interview in the "Vjesnik" a few days ago or seven days ago, the president of this House said that it could only apply it to future parties. That's the question. Why am I saying that? Because the parties are also kind associations of their own kind, so the parties are also associations and finally against that law should also in some way... no matter who benefits here. Maybe even IDS. Maybe! How would you react, say, to introduce a provision of 5,000 members for an association? I don't know, but I think you'd find yourself in trouble and rightly so. So let's not do that. That's what I'd say worse than that recent verification of certain activists of certain associations. That change is terrible, but this could be terrible squared. I mean, the state is obliged to secure money, not and oversee the members of the associations, but to monitor the spending of money on these associations. So where it goes, whether it goes for wages, whether it goes for civil society activities, for implementation or for political performances of these same associations. The party has to fight for a term of office to get to the money. An independent candidate if he has political ambitions, he must also vote for his mandate. The association receives money in, say, a contest and for parties or an independent candidate always stands a citizen or a citizen, voters. Political discretion is more common behind the association. What bothers me, however, and I will always fight for the autonomy of associations, including those I disagree with, which I don't share a worldview with is when associations start performing politically and when their activists start showing up in the elections. It's just terrible, it's bypassing I don't know the rights or these codes in associations, it's a kind of delusion as well as when some journalists participate in elections regardless of what someone will say, it's possible by law. In Istria, it became a normal practice for members of journalists' associations, journalists, for example, to participate in the elections, so that by the month before the elections, journalists become politicians, seven days after the election, become journalists or activists of individual associations. In those cases, I know there's nothing we can do, but that's something we should talk about, that shouldn't happen. Associations should be associations, political parties should be political parties, journalists should remain independent of their journalists. This proposal clearly needs to be accepted. But he's so general again, so superficial, so optional that it's possible to self-will, that there's enormous discretion and improvisation and then it's not good again and that's what Mr. Hrelja says, there's no practice in this code, there's no standard, there's no simple measure. You should vote for it, but this material is all just not transparent. With this material I'm afraid to buy individual associations and then that's bad. I do not know well that it is said that some are destroying the image of the Republic of Croatia, I have not heard as Mr Kovacevic says that some have dragged members of Al'Quaida into these premises, but also let's say one information, we all know that Croatia cannot be the last country in the world for economic freedoms that has been spoken of in, say, seven or eight days ago, although I stress that the most devastating reputation of Croatia in the world is those who have allowed the conversion, who have not sanctioned those who have not brought up money for defence, who have not punished war crimes, which I do not know allow what happens in shipbuilding etc. So it's for the end. I'm 100% for the autonomy of the association, I'm not going to keep my mouth shut in front of anyone, I'm going to talk about them as they rightly speak about us, me, etc. I'll help them. The only prize I ever received was the prize of HHO in 2000, and I'm extremely proud of it, and I didn't get anything else or need it. Homosexuals declare me the first homophobia in Croatia because I am against adopting children and coming out of the position to use these attitudes only to draw attention to myself through provocation, but I will also get up first in their defense, but I will also raise my last hand that I can't adopt children and Amen! I mean, Croatia can't do it without associations. Croatia must assist the associations. Don't let them abuse their position but no one has the right to use repression mechanisms to scan the situation in associations as recently as in the case of "Jadranka v Jadranka" I don't know who did what, it needs to be investigated, tried. Whoever does this has to answer for sure, get out of position, etc. It may even begin from people who are headed by an intelligence apparatus who have so unskilledly bought one, I would say, before the provocation, rather than the law-based request. I'll say it one more time, we'll vote for this code. It says in it that he's in agreement, I suppose, with associations, etc. He himself means money, no money, no parties, no associations, no media, so we understand each other. No money means no associations or decent lives, but no one in this country can be blackmailed. And especially to get someone to do some background checks that are beyond all civilization codes. However, public money must be a guarantee of the autonomy of each individual association that meets certain criteria and which can hope for that assistance, not to be used for any political or other interests or objectives. So I'm gonna say it one more time. For me, it's the code, no matter what it's missing, which is not said here what practice it is, what standards, which measured it even though it's very delicate and it's done because I know what the government would be into if it started dealing with it, so suddenly everyone would rise up against it. But no matter what is relatively flawed, that is, although it is in harmony with the associations, it should be accepted, but let us also know that there is a huge amount of money behind it. I said, associations have an annual budget of 136 million kuna, which is more than the money held by political parties participating in the public life of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82946	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82947	Your Honor, Mr. President. I am correcting the inaccuracy of fellow Caine, who has identified the same legal position as the political party and association. This is impossible to compare when we see constitutional provisions, and everywhere in the world, it is important to distinguish both political parties and to act unlike associations. Because if it were the same then they wouldn't be different names, and many countries in the world have exactly 15, 20 grand that they're looking for as a condition to form a political party. And it's not retroactive when it's given a period within which you can get someone to act on a political stage. I also have to correct the incorrect allegations of another regarding HHO which he praised. Individuals in HHO wrote indictments against Croatia, against Croatian generals and are now even defending them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82948	For the HSS club, the esteemed representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82949	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to start by saying that the HSS will support this proposal. We don't think he's the happiest solution in the world. We also hope that this is in line with the associations, and I would ask the Secretary of State to show it because it would be bad in the press, or public media, to hear that we will adopt this proposal that the associations do not support. What we in the HSS believe would in any case depolitize working with associations, including the work of the Association Office itself. There's just no room for people who do politics, and we don't think there's room for people who belong to a stranger at all. We know so far at the Association Office we had the president and vice president of that Office who belonged to a particular political option. They even came from the same branch. See, that's a bad thing that happens for civil society, and this code sure as hell won't change that, but we have to change that practice. The leaders of these offices dealing with civil society could certainly still be appointed by the government, but on a proposal by civil society where the criterion would be non-compliance with any political option. In doing so, we believe that civil society must be in charge of the implementation of the strategy, and the Office should carry out the operation, and the code would be one of the tools that would make the situation in this area look much better. However, here we have to ask ourselves how much we care about the development of this civil society because in 2001 the Law on Associations was adopted. It took us six years before the Parliament to come to this code which apparently serves to further develop civil society. Positive practices were obviously so far, we had to define standards, we had to set standards, but for that to happen we needed much less time than 6 years. It would have been much more logical if it had been done in a year or two, and it might have been possible if it had been done in a few months. However, you see, the government obviously has a code of positive practice that sublegal acts that need to be drawn up by the government come to the Parliament with a delay of several years. This is not the only example, I could count a number of regulations that were not passed under the law, which should have been proposed to this House of Ministers, but we haven't received them in a few years, and maybe even in this term we won't even get them. There is no reason for such a delay because there are also people who are paid for the job. What's perfectly safe for Croatia is that we have too many associations. There is, as the secretary of state mentioned, 31 thousand and 600 associations, and if each of them got just a thousand kuna, it would cost the state 36 million kuna, and we know what a thousand kuna can do. It's about an average of 100 kuna per month, which can't even cover the cost of the phone. But only a figure of 31 thousand and 600 associations for one relatively small Croatia tells us enough for itself. It's probably for some of them, and it's worth it. It is a job that can secure certain revenues every year, and good revenues and some associations provide several million kunas each year, and even more so do certain political tasks. However, it is not mentioned here in the code at all, even though I consider it a fundamental issue that associations should simply be forbidden to deal with politics and be in the function of politics. My colleague Cain mentioned this case before me that there are some associations, and even there are 10 and more years in Croatia that receive regular money from the state and which deal with politics in a way to propose their candidates for elections in the municipality, the city, the county and even appear on lists when elections are held for the Croatian Parliament. That should probably be excluded by the code. Whoever wants to deal with civil society must be far away from politics and vice versa, whoever is in politics must be far away from civil society because space for work can be in both areas, depending on how much interest it has. However, the money we share for associations here should also be a little decentralised. We do not mention anywhere in this code, nor do we mention that money could come to associations in another way, not just from Zagreb. We mention how the code will apply to municipalities and cities, but of course, about money neither here nor anywhere else. We agree that this code needs to be introduced, that it is one of the little moments that encourages further civil society. But it's not permanent. This is actually part of the promotion of civil society, we have made an act that we will adopt, but this strategy is not a document that will radically change the situation in this sector. That is why we at the HSS Club are committed to further improving this sector which should work in quality, which should have its strategic objectives and which should be primarily depolitised. For this reason, we will also support this proposal for a code with the hope that we will also receive other acts concerning civil society here in Parliament, but with a deadline that is more appropriate than 6 years after the government's obligation to refer it to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82950	Thank you. A SDP representative club, the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82951	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Of course, we support the need and ultimately the legal obligation to make a decision that will actually regulate the code of conduct, standards and criteria for achieving financial support to the programmes and projects of the associations. The development of civil society in every civil society is a very important and very important issue, but here, when we are discussing the concrete text of this proposed code, we must say that we have several issues that we ourselves want to eliminate, or rather want to get answers that our possible doubts will remove. In fact, it seems to us that in the very text of the codes, in several places, there are built-in such collaborations that allow for a multi-significant, multi-significant interpretation or different interpretation of the same thing, and then, in fact, an uneven application of the code itself in practice to all associations. Secondly, it seems to us that a number of concepts have been defined or introduced that practically allow those who implement this in the code to actually interpret the meaning and content of this concept with a high degree of discretion. Third, there is a specific instrument that enables one part of the association to be actually installed, and ultimately, if it wishes to be interpreted as such, it can virtually eliminate any of them from the process of applying this code to them or even more precisely from the procedure to reach funding for a specific programme or project. So let's take the turn. First, Article 1 of this Association introduces itself as a standard of special interest for the general good, i.e. the withdrawal of public good in the Republic of Croatia. First, in the Republic of Croatia, there is an interest in the state interest of a particularly defined general, particular interest and it does not, in fact, exist for the general public. Therefore, it is therefore given to those who will implement this Code that they determine the content of the concept of general public good, i.e. of particular interest and once a general good, second time a public good. In such a situation, therefore, these associations are concerned. So in such a situation, it was worth a clear solution to the question actually to determine these terms if not before, and at least in this code. Why? Because this issue is very important, because those projects and programmes that are not of particular interest and are not for general or public good cannot participate, or will not be granted the funding of these projects. Now look. It is very interesting that at the same time in Article 2 it is said in paragraph 4 that associations which cannot achieve financial support under the provisions of this Code for activities already financed from the state budget and now and under a special regulation, therefore both. If financed under special regulations, they will not be given the opportunity, and these special regulations are in fact determined which associations are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, with these special regulations, we have a situation to determine the particular interest of the Republic of Croatia in Article 1(1), although expressed there as a state interest in general, i.e. public good, and at the same time we eliminate these associations here so that they can participate in these projects and programmes. So now there's a question, and what do we want? Take, for example, voluntary fire companies. Of course, according to the Fire Society Act, they will receive a certain portion of the funds for certain activities they carry out with the law, etc. But did we introduce Article 2(4)? ... associations, we eliminate them because of specific regulations if they report to a project or programme that will be published because they have additional capacity and are located in their jurisdiction which can better be done with regard to the protection and rescue of fires or natural disasters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think this is a good thing, and in that context, the issue has to be resolved. That's number one. Number two. There is no association in the Republic of Croatia which does not have the opportunity to participate in financing from the budget of the Republic of Croatia or units of local and regional self-government. Why? Because in the budget, we don't single out the money just for this association or that association, but we single out for associations, and then these money is actually approved through funding programmes. Therefore, there is no way to put these fences into place here because we are giving opportunities for those who will implement the code and who will follow their implementation through discretionary means can actually eliminate this or that association from a particular project and always refer to this code while at the same time violating the principle of equality and if you want the principle of non-discrimination of associations in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on Associations. The second of our observations concerns Article 2(1), where it is said that financial support providers are now acting in accordance with the provisions of this Code for the sake of efficiency, etc. First donors can comply with the law, etc., and this code will be taken into account because the code is not the law. Secondly, we have a situation that, for example, the Income Tax Act provides for the possibility for associations, in particular, for humanitarian and other work if specific funds are allocated from the budget of a particular society, a company, etc., is often a smaller tax base. Therefore, what will now be controlled here at the end of the day, it is predicted to control the alliances of associations, them for such a part, therefore, and that they should act. Why would they have to act on this when they can act on the other law originally? Thirdly, the question arises whether these donors, as financial support is written, because this is not about the financing of the project itself and the programme itself, but about the financial support, is this how everyone has to act and, in particular, the parties or the parties to the natural and legal persons who, in accordance with the law, have to handle it? Fourthly, we wonder why this code did not finally open the issue of morality to our associations, especially those dealing with humanitarian aid and work when they are receiving foreign aid, in fact, to open the principle that the law would regulate the release of customs duties and VAT payments. And also in the country when they provide humanitarian aid that they do not have to pay VAT on that part of the funds. Then it would make sense to say that these are governed by practice, etc., principles, standards. Otherwise, it is difficult to find such issues regulated in such a way. In addition, in the same Article 1(4), you have the situation of the following that the financial support provider will abolish further financing of the approved support and request the repayment of the funds in the event that the association unwittingly spends the funds granted by financial support. At the same time, the thread is either a code or in any way prescribed to monitor the control of the spending of those funds and, in particular, what is provided by law to monitor the control of the spending of funds by the central government but there is no obligation of the central government to inform the provider of such funds or the financier thereof and that it may act in accordance with this Code. Based on what... So this is completely incomplete, and that part needs further repair. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We of the SDP believe that this Article 2(4) should be completely deleted. It reads, the association cannot achieve financial support under the provisions of this Code for activities already financed from the State budget and by specific regulations. This code does not apply to regular activities, does not apply to specific regulations, it refers to programmes and projects that can be financed in particular. Therefore, the provision of paragraph 4 is totally excessive and it actually allows discretionary evaluations to be carried out which association to give or not to grant other funds. Point 3 concerning the role of the advice in this regard is completely excessive here, as the decision to set up a council is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, the Government in that decision should also determine the jurisdiction or action of the advice. Therefore, to further indicate here that the Council for Civil Society Development as an advisory and expert body of the Government, why should we now prescribe the provision of laws and provisions of the Decision establishing advice in the Code, because it is not an act, in terms of legal act. It's actually an act that we're trying to regulate the conventional rules of conduct. Now it's said in it. It shall monitor, analyse, evaluate support from the state budget which, through public tenders, approve financial needs providers, support for programmes and projects of associations in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of this Code. Look, this is the part that can be regulated by a regulation, by a rule, by a government decision but not by a code. It's simply an administrative part of a job or public authority performed by a consultant and it should be put where it belongs. That provision is completely excessive, it doesn't work, it shouldn't go into code. This is mainly due to the fact that, among other things, in point 2 of point 3 of point 2 of point 3 of point 2 of this Article, the financial support provider shall provide information on the financed programmes and projects of the Civil Society Development Council and the Association Office. Look, this is a very unusual provision that actually tries to track all of our natural and legal persons who will provide financial support because financial support is ours and each of us individually without saying "x" to our citizens who, from time to time, send some kind of humanitarian association or some kind of association and pay a certain amount of funds for their activity as support so that we can do that part. Imagine now, we would now have to report to me each time what advice that part would have to follow. Well, I think the Association Council has a different role. It must actually monitor the funds allocated from the budget of the Republic of Croatia for the achievement of their registered activities for which they applied and received money from the budget. And let autonomy in associations do this part and be financed by and support of natural and legal persons and, of course, by the Ministry of Finance and the competent authorities, give the task of monitoring whether these funds are used for the purpose of those projects and programmes they need, etc., and of course, to the administrative bodies, not to enter into the code such provisions and powers to advice that he could not even have. Of course, it is quite interesting to say in Article 4 that the date of entry into force of this Code ceases to apply to the decision on criteria for the establishment of associations whose activity is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and to financial support to associations from the resources of the state budget. You see here, in fact, what is of interest to the Republic of Croatia is in line with the Constitution as opposed to point 1 of this Code which speaks of particular interest to the general or public welfare. Therefore, the decision should be stopped but the question is, can the code be abolished? I mean, that's the question. That's the question. It's what I've never seen, you know, that the first body to make the code abolishs a decision that hasn't been made by the body. Because the Parliament's making that decision as I recall it may be that I have a bad memory, it's been since 1998 it doesn't seem like it's been made for me. I think it was brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia... The Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay, but we wouldn't be able to break it by code for sure. That's a little unusual. We should make a decision on the termination of that decision, not the code. Because the code should include some other rules that should be regulated, not what the decision belongs to as a legal act. What's this about? If you want to dispute this as a legal act, then it is a completely different nature of the legal act of this code than it is a decision, and I therefore consider that this decision, this code, after the debate has been carried out, might best be used to discuss and vote on certain acts that, in the coming week, it should be corrected and corrected on the basis of these remarks. And that, of course, in relation to those remarks that the motionor may accept and that we should try and then get one text of the code that would be what the code itself is, in itself, itself. And not like this, in a quick way, a book that we can hardly call code, and it's an even bigger problem I'm referring to in the name of our club again. If there are provisions in it, they didn't want me to know. People may be in the best faith but when the situation comes to them to decide about money, about projects, about programs, and report to that competition several dozen or hundreds of associations suddenly, then you know people reach out to those questions not only who they're going to give but who they're going to eliminate from the process? And then there's the possibility of discretionary treatment and it can hurt the principle of equality in front of the public body of these associations because it's... equality before the law and the principle at the end of justice which would not be good for the development of civil society or for the development of democracy and rule of law in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82952	Thank you. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82953	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Programmes and projects of associations which are of particular interest to the general public, public goods in the Republic of Croatia are financed by State budget support. The Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the authorities of the State Administration shall act in accordance with the provisions of this Code in order to make rational and transparent use of funds from the State budget. It is based on the principles of setting priorities for funding, calling public tenders on clear conditions with a long enough deadline until when is the tender open? The Commission shall assess professionally by opening applications of the notified projects and programmes by means of an assessment by the expert bodies established by the support provider. The procedure further includes a response to the participants of the acceptance contest or not a proposal? Public publication of the results of the contract, conclusion of a contract within a specified deadline of 60 days. However, I particularly consider it important, in particular, to consider the most important monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of selected programmes and projects, i.e. the dedicated spending of appropriations under the obligation of associations to submit a report to list and financial support providers in accordance with the contract. And what else is especially to be pointed out? The financial support provider will abolish the further financing of the approved support and request the repayment of the funds paid in the event of non-intentional spending of the funds. Because that also means unrealizing the project. In this way not only will it prevent the irrational and unintended unwarranted spending of money from the State budget on these grounds but it will indeed, but really useful and justified programmes, but it will remain more funds for the really useful and justified programmes and projects of the associations. I repeat, a special emphasis must have this feedback because again, whether we want to admit it or not, someone abuses trust and has to be sanctioned. It has to be sanctioned for the future even if it's a good program. The fact is, there are a lot of associations. Most of them are extremely skilled at designing programs and projects and then again it is known that some less skilled with essentially good project or program remain short sleeves. The Government of the Republic of Croatia established a Council for the Development of Civil Society, consisting of 11 representatives of ministries and 13 representatives of civil society organisations of various areas of action. The Council shall monitor and analyse the support from the State budget and inform the support providers of both the advice and the Association Office. It's final. The Code sets out clear transparent principles in approving financial support to associations for their projects and programmes of general public goods in the Republic of Croatia. Accepting this proposal is more than desirable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82954	Thank you. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82955	Your Honor, Mr. President. The old Slavonic proverb says, "Warning never enough." Yesterday I had the best excellent opinion of the Secretary of State. Today I'm a little disappointed with the key concept, the code of state secretary in the system of delintology regulation codes are usually provided for only regulatory institutions. So it's usually the codes of professional ethics and in this sense they have a confusing meaning here. Since the government has already decided on a private-public partnership for the concept of a guideline that was borrowed from 1963 from the decision. I think it was then the 7th or 8th Congress of the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia that you would do well to accept this concept of guidelines and continue to promote it in similar documents or simply call it a decision on the principles and criteria for achieving the financial support of associations here. To settle this proposal for people who listen to us here and who are looking at us in some social context, the budget is set aside annually for associations as you have said 136 million kuna. The total disseminatings for science this year will be 124 million kuna. It means that you have a closer orientation and that you understand how Croatian scientists operate in difficult conditions, that I will give two examples of leading Croatian scientists, the first Krešimir Nemec, historian and literature theorists to win for the entire team this year, which has 10 people, 30 thousand kuna. The second is classical philosopher Darko Novakovic, who will receive 35 million kuna for his research project this year. That's what I'm saying because the public is confused and thinks that the money is shared by cap and fist taking into account a known case where a well-known obsessor and geneticist Miroslav Radman got caught on the basis of the intervention of our Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, 28 million kuna. I'm still going back to the problem itself. Civilian organizations are now in a privileged position, especially in new democracies. They're still some sort of mezmite public and even the mezmite state budgets. As used to be states, as was once a professional doctor or still is, such as judicial, legal, priestly professions. However, serious theoretical criticisms have appeared in the West long ago. The best book on the subject was written by my friend David Reef, who is the son of Suzanne Sontag. He wrote first about major crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, ordering his mother a famous, or perhaps one of the world's most prominent intellectuals, public intellectual Susan Sontag to fall in love with Sarajevo. That's where she met the fracture of the millennium. She recently died. And he wrote a wonderful obituary. He first noticed that civil society and all social communities are prone to all vices that we sometimes do not see and worship, especially in Croatia in front of some institutions. When I tell someone I mean GONG on one institution that is politically terribly biased, none of my memos have ever answered. When I asked them to protect me for the threat of death and physical abuse they never did. And then when it's done by a party that's nice to them, they react in 23 minutes. As we have our colleague Lek, who signed up to the president of the state for a conflict of interest and has been subject to him for three months now, rests. And three times he's already considered the subject of the Prime Minister who came to his bench two months later. So, what's his credibility, gentlemen, is that he's so selective and unfair in respecting chronology. However, to be closer to the practical benefit of the esteemed secretary of state, my opinion remains excellent on you. I would suggest that, with these three criteria you have in the paragraph, to open it, second Roman, it means that the conditions would be to be entered in the register, to promote values and to deal with activities that are directed towards the interests of the community. I'd like to suggest a practical criterion, but I'd like you to listen to it. Recently, the eurobarometer, the most objective European research of all and includes everything in its sample and Croatia as a country in the negotiation process. Therefore, it should be said that, as one criterion, the key criteria must be the social priority of the problems dealing with a specific association based on the results of the latest Eurobarometer survey. Why would I say that? Why am I saying that? Because the latest Eurobarometer survey of autumn 2006 has such a hierarchy of social problems for the Croatian population. In the first place, absolutely the first place is unemployment. 65% of respondents singled out unemployment as one of two key problems for them personally, their families and Croatian communities. It means that NGOs dealing with this problem should be given absolute priority. In second place with 50%, crime is ordinary, organized, corruption. In third place, the economic situation is 39%. In fourth place, he cares about old people and low pensions 10%. And in fifth place health problems, health care and all related 8%. Everything else is when you add up 5%. If you look at Croatian associations, you will get a reverse case. Unemployment deals with hips and maybe another or two of these 36,000 organizations. And there are thousands of organizations that deal with problems that don't bother people at all. And these associations have a privileged position, entering this high house without knocking, with a high view of us. And these associations dealing with the essential problems of the Croatian people, the legacy, poverty, alcoholism, addiction, concern for the future, for their own children, for education very little. Therefore, please, if you support and adopt my fourth criterion with great happiness and satisfaction, I will support your proposal, provided that you certainly deviate from the concept of "code" because you bring great confusion into us who are seriously dealing with the problem of delinthology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82956	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82957	Thank you, sir. I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I think a little slip happened to my colleague. I don't think colleague Novakovic got 35 million, our classic philologist, 35 million kuna, but he probably got 35 thousand kuna, yeah, yeah, he did. Because there would be 35 million kunas would really be great money for a scientific project. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if indeed, if you were to look at this fact if one man who was uninformed and if exactly that more than 28 thousand different associations were registered in Croatia then he could really say that the state of democracy, growth... society in Croatia has no problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But unfortunately, things don't look so good if they're just interpreted from this really impressive figure. It is very easy, it is very simple to contextualize the time in which these associations were created. And indeed, many of them were created, in principle, by one man, fax and telephone, and for a certain time, it was convenient that, without any greater effort, an association was created, which the colleague Letica was very interesting at the end of, in fact, dealing with those problems, topics that most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia were not troubled by. I was also told, for 15 years, the mayor of Osijek and there it worked in that city who actually lived there only after a peaceful reintegration, with it being clear to us that the peaceful reintegration of January 15, 98 did not bring it right away, it did not really, that honey and milk were immediately flowing, but we really need to be aware that ten years away from all these positive political, economic and internal flows and there were these associations. And these associations, I don't know them in town, 700, 800. And now just imagine that when they asked you to give them one room, take it, it's just 10-15 squares, that it's actually a space with which the city had never really had to distribute, and you couldn't really give any explanation to act in very difficult conditions, that you didn't have anything against civil society, but that civil society is considered as some... This democracy of ours, the necessary yeast that also shows the degree of our success in transition, democratisation, normalization, modernisation. [[You don't understand.]] All of those positive concepts, but that doesn't work like that, because exactly your economic options are so, and then these housing options aren't like that that you can give everyone 10-15 squares space, then you have to give a free phone, a free fax and opportunities to still participate in the employment of at least one person and it has really proved to have just returned as a boomerang, as on one side, and I have to admit even when you have the media, I don't know against myself who are also ideologically and sensitized that these problems are actually looking only through these ideological, party, party eyes, then you really had a very difficult problem how to explain that as a single regional or european or whatever you want, you don't really have anything against it, but that really that what they want is very often out of your options, and yet I don't know that there was a 10, 15 associations who have been involved in the problem of environmental protection, or just that you know that there are able to try the one thing in the other way that the president, so that you know that you can't be able to try. I must admit to you that we have never had much success with this, and also when you asked them to, if you have to defend your budget, your budget is transparent and public and that the money you give to anyone, too, you have to justify, that most often when you ask them to do so, then it was seen as the greatest possible insult or simply how you can doubt it at all and not trust that it will be used properly. And I'm exactly this code, and I'm experiencing it exactly in that function, in a way trying to introduce order. Normally, what the fellow Letica said is all that stands, it is very clear that the violation of this code does not stand any legal sanctions, it is more relevant to these moral norms, the principles of this very one conduct which will indeed be an example of how members of the association must behave, but I am afraid that these codes are more acceptable and as measures are more acceptable to society with a long-standing democratic tradition,... economic behavior that this isn't going to go very easy on us. [[You don't understand.]] But if we really are, I have to support it right now because I'm saying from experience that this abuse is being reduced as much as possible, that these phantom associations that have really formed ad hoc, as well as our own though political parties, like mushrooms after the rain, who keeps to themselves and immediately establish an association or political party, that's the thing that I'm going to definitely support. Certainly legal status must be clean, associations that have lost formal conditions of existence should be deleted from this register, sit down and really see what it does, and especially that one of the most important criteria really is the criterion of the problem but also this one that really also civil society in some way focuses on those topics that are dominant at this moment in Croatian society, certainly from corruption, bribes, unemployment, these are problems that plague the ordinary average citizen of this country, and I say very often I did not know about this information that I do not know about associations is being spent more than on science. I certainly say, again I must say, I come from this one liberal world, a world where the existence of civil society is the most normal thing. We all actually read all those books that encouraged us there in the '80s and showed how things could work differently. We were also very angry with that Croatian silence that made it impossible for civil society to function in the 1980s, those alternative movements that they were more speculative. Remember, in fact, why the transition in Slovenia went a little faster and more content than we did. Just because there is civil society, they became very fast partners of the then policies, there in the 1960s, unfortunately in that Croatia, it was not the case, and because of this one delay, we are still suffering today, in fact, the consequences of this Croatian silence and the disabling of civil society. But as no society is immune from those negative ways of behaviour, actions, in every society there is crime, there is dishonesty, and in our Croatian society, this Vlado Gotovinac has long said that when a man criticises in... society it is not a criticism of the Croatian state. You know, very often our people are usually even between the state and society, they put a sign of equality. No, it's a criticism of appearances in society. But with the same right, as it has the right to criticize us, our work must be transparent, etc. Also, civil society is not and the priorities are not freed, amnesty from these negative phenomena. I'm saying so LS, HSLS will support the adoption of this code and I'm just hoping that the government, that's good, actually, is introducing a certain order into this area, into this area that's very much because there's this one mortgage, if you say something against associations that you're a priori actually don't know the man who... Not to say anything further, not democratic enough, etc. [[You don't understand.]] In fact, it's just the other way around. And I think it should be the interest of these associations who really do their job honestly and honestly and I want to believe it, but 28 thousand registered associations are really here to say... 36, here's what I have to admit is really going into that section for Gines' book, and I say there were 700 of them from one big Croatian town, 800, and I have to admit that today there was no clear description of many of these associations' activities except that they really did come from the state budget and then the county budget and then some sponsors and then that you just had no insight and that nobody and it's almost rude to ask that they subscribe to you in the way that these financial resources came from the budget that they spent because if we, I say, if the local administration is responsible for transparent spending and in line with the good lord, I think that it should be worth the same thing to the associations. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If this code is a step further, here's my voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82958	Thank you very much, dear colleague Kramarić. Final word, State Secretary, Mr. Palaric. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82959	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There are times when normative creativity must move within the limits of the law on the one hand, on the other hand the interests and the will of those concerned. Today, we discussed a document called the Code of Positive Practices, Standards and Criteria for Realising Financial Programmes and Projects of Associations. The code proposed by the government to the Croatian Parliament and more exposures challenged the technical term, said the act should be called different. However, we must move within the limits of Article 23(2) of the current Law on Associations, which says that the Croatian Parliament will bring to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia a code of positive practice of standards and criteria for achieving financial support to programmes and projects of the association. It's a finished quote. So, the name itself, the procedure itself is defined by law. We have had in our current legal life the decision on the criteria for determining associations whose activity is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and financial support to associations from the state budget. The decision was based on a previously applicable law, however, when the law was amended, nothing was said about the legal fate of this Decision, and we do not believe that there can be two rules that decide on the same things in different ways. So we decided to put aside the decision on standards by this Code because the law itself doesn't say anything until when it's worth it. It only states that those acts adopted under the earlier law will cease to apply when the rules laid down in paragraph 14 are passed, and that is the registration regulation because the model of registration has been amended. According to earlier law, some associations were registered at the state level. So he associations that had an area of action on more than one county. However, now under the new law everything is registered according to the headquarters where it is. So it was a limit as to the legal framework and there was also a limit for the government that she had to take into account, which is the concerted interests of the associations. Yeah, I can't say why the Codex hasn't been proposed to the House since the law was passed until 2004, so we've been speaking since 2001, but I can say in this period that we've been through two rounds of compliance since it was built. That it had been attended in the least by officials of my Office, that those concerned had worked on it, that there were numerous and countless meetings on the formal and informal part of the Civil Society Development Council and that these were in line with the views of those who were expecting aid from the state budget. But no longer as previously decided, therefore, out of interest for the Republic of Croatia than in accordance with the current applicable law of interest for the general good. I am convinced that the interest in the general good is in the interests of the Republic of Croatia and that what is financed from the state budget will be through the interest of the general good, in fact the interest of all Croatian citizens, and thus the Republic of Croatia as a rule of law. I said 31 thousand and 600 associations were registered in Croatia, that was this morning before I left here. Today, now it's probably more, and it's good. There's no need to be afraid. Let it bloom not a thousand, but for now 30 thousand flowers, there may be more. We're not afraid of that. My office, myself personally, the people who deal with this job were often the target of criticism of certain associations that claim to regulate the state of society. It's often been out of ignorance, out of misunderstanding. I don't want to impute any political options. We talked to everyone openly, from Transparency International, HHO, GONG, not to say what. We organized some of the meetings together, only with regard to these political laws concerning the electoral system, with the GONG, with the OSCE, with Transparency International, organized, discussed, found solutions that are best for Croatia, at least that's how we believe, and we're not afraid of anyone. Let all act within the limits as they imagined, within the limits that the law allows them, within the limits of not undermining the constitutional order. Only a small part of the association receives funding from the state budget, out of these 31 thousand, it is not even a few percent, and other associations are not founded with the intention of fully setting anyone up as tutors, but to achieve the interests of their citizens. They're from sports companies, from singing societies, from firefighters. So that's one expression of Croatian tradition and someone mentioned that this number should be in the Guiness Book of Records. And I think it is a number that we can all be proud of, and that means that the civil sector in Croatia is freely functioning, that it is developing, that its legal framework of the Republic of Croatia allows it, that political freedoms also allow and I think that this Code will be another step in the transparency of funding programmes that are of general good. Everyone will be able to verify that, the results must be made public. I propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt this code because it is a step forward and that this will be a step forward in transparency spending of public funds at the state level, from the state budget, but we can also insist on its implementation, the implementation of transparency in the areas of local self-government units and units of regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82960	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82961	Proposal for a code of positive practice of standards and criteria for achieving financial support to programmes and projects of associations. I am voting on the proposal for a code. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 70 votes for, 10 abstentions and one against and that decision taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82962	We're moving on to the next point. It is – - The proposal for a decision to declare 2007 "the year of consumer education in the Republic of Croatia" is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for an act was received by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received their reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the decision? Yeah. Here you go. The word is from colleague Vrankovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82963	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Let me just briefly introduce you to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to declare 2007 as "the year of consumer education in the Republic of Croatia". The sound economy of a country based on the competitiveness of entrepreneurs also depends on a high level of consumer confidence and satisfaction. The developed market economy in which traders compete for consumer preference certainly represents one of the strongest means of consumer protection. Therefore, one of the basic tasks in this area is the creation of a balance between entrepreneurs and consumers, i.e. traders and consumers. In order to achieve such a degree of market economy, it takes permanent education for both traders and consumers. Such development of consumer protection is only possible by constantly improving consumer knowledge, which can only be implemented through intensive education, raising the level of consumer awareness in their importance and important role in the economy of a single country. Consumer education affects not only the consumer as an individual but is primarily focused on the development of human rights, ethical values and social and economic justice in each individual country. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia recognised the protection of consumers which is one of the cornerstones of every democratic and free society and classified consumer protection as one of its main priorities, given that a higher level of consumer education benefits the overall improvement of the social community. In modern European democracies, the development of consumer protection depends on the level of consumer education at all levels of society, as set out in Article 153. The Treaty of Amsterdam of 1977, which reads: "With the aim of protecting the interests of consumers and ensuring a high level of protection, the community will contribute to the protection of the health, safety and economic interests of consumers, promote their right to information, education and organise itself to protect their interests". As an example of how important the role of consumer education is, we also highlight the organisation of a whole series of conferences in the Member States on the subject of consumer education and give the greatest importance to this area. Thus, consumer education was also a topic within the framework of a central meeting in Vienna on 15 March 2006 on the day of the traditional day of consumer protection throughout Europe every year. Recognizing the importance of consumer education for the benefit of the Croatian economy and the overall improvement of the social community by following events in the countries of the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship as a Resorient Ministry in the area of consumer protection has made exceptional efforts over the past period and financial resources to implement a wider education on consumer protection. 4 consumer protection counselling centres in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Pula, financed exclusively from the state budget, have been established since 2005 and 2006, and the purpose of which is to educate consumers about their rights and obligations. Furthermore, a whole range of projects have been designed to educate consumers, which are implemented in cooperation with consumer protection associations such as consumer preventive protection, consumer protection information, consumer information and training, and product comparative tests. As part of the consumer education projects, consumers received quality educational materials, brochures dealing with topics with which consumers in the Republic of Croatia had the most problems, which were also financed from the state budget. As part of the information project on consumer protection, a wide range of expert consultations, seminars, round tables, conferences and workshops on financial services, banking in the consumer protection system, possible way of resolving consumer disputes, public services, advertising, advertising and declaration, the role of local self-government in the implementation of consumer protection policy. As part of the project, the comparative product tests have been carried out by using authorised laboratories to improve consumer education on the quality and health of individual food products on the market. All these activities are carried out in order to establish a quality consumer protection system in the Republic of Croatia and to bring it closer to standards similar to those in the Member States of the European Union. With this in connection with the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship continue in 2007 with very intensive activities related to the construction of a consumer protection system of the Republic of Croatia, with a view to achieving the standards of the Member States of the European Union, which will be possible through the adoption of a new Consumer Protection Act which is in line with the legal property of the European Union, the adoption of a national consumer protection programme for the period 2007 to 2010, the continuation of negotiations with the European Union for Chapter 28 of Consumer Protection and Health Protection, the establishment of alternative consumer dispute resolution bodies, the continuation of projects intended for consumer protection associations to raise consumer awareness and the start of the EU CARDS 2004 project to further strengthen capacity in the area of consumer protection. Despite the significant progress made by the Republic of Croatia in this area and as confirmed in the European Commission's report following the bilateral screening for the 28 consumer and health protection area where satisfaction has been expressed and it has been assessed that the Republic of Croatia understands very well the legal acquis of the European Union in this area as well as its further tasks. The government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as society as a whole, should take further steps in order to meet the remaining challenges. Following all of the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that Croatian consumers need to be continuously informed and trained and educated on all the advantages and positive measures that will take place through the implementation of these activities, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will carry out in the next period together with other actors in creating a consumer protection system in the Republic of Croatia, and in order for Croatian consumers to have the same protection as consumers in the countries of the European Union. And finally, we are keeping very important and we propose that in 2007 in the Republic of Croatia, related to the area of consumer protection, focus on consumer education, and we propose to the Croatian Parliament that in 2007 it be declared "the year of consumer education in the Republic of Croatia". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82964	Thank you very much. Please, is anyone answering on behalf of the working bodies? No, I don't. We can have a club debate. First HDZ Club, Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec. Here you go, pals!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82965	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues and Mr Secretary of State! The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports, of course, and is pleased with the proposal for this decision because we still remember the debate we discussed last week when we talked about the Consumers Act, on consumer protection where we all naturally advocated that consumers in Croatia are maximum protection. And in order to protect themselves, they must learn about their rights in this new law when we accept it and expand it in another reading. We fully agree that public promotion of all those articles that are at the service of consumers must be strengthened in order to protect themselves in all those areas that the law provides for and at least a dozen of them. And something we particularly appreciate is in this decision, that the Croatian Parliament will get a much greater role than it has so far, by not making this decision but by participating actively in the implementation of all activities through our members that we will determine on behalf of the Croatian Parliament to be in the working group that will propose plans and programmes and then control what the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship is doing, because the ministry is designated as the holder of this programme and operationally of course that it will implement it. So, in that part, we expect that the whole 2007 will be actively implemented and the new Consumers Act and all that we may not know for ourselves that it will happen on the market because we are aware of living activities daily in all areas. And we also hope that very quickly by making these two decisions we will also get the text of the National Consumer Protection Programme since 2007 and for the next period because we know that this has been well implemented by 2006 and that it has produced a series of results. And we also appreciate that the Associations of Consumers who joined the Alliance will appear as an equal partner and will work together with the Ministry and the Government on the well-being and protection of health and all those segments of consumers in Croatia who want to do so. It may be to consider, of course, that by accepting all the foreign words that are welcome, which everyone understands, this word of education is changed into the Croatian word of instruction. So, to be a year of consumer training in the Republic of Croatia, which does not change either in terms or in terms and in spirit there is a Croatian language. A year of consumer training in the Republic of Croatia is welcome and I expect that we will be actively involved in all these actions and expect excellent plans and programmes to be implemented from the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82966	Thank you very much, colleague. Next is the Croatian People's Party club, a fellow representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82967	My colleagues and colleagues! We have a decision in front of us that opens an issue that is extremely important, and when we recently discussed the Consumer Protection Act, I talked about it in part. Unfortunately, an extremely good idea in the text as suggested is difficult to support. Mr Secretary of State, you are proposing that we declare Parliament's 2007 decision a year of consumer education in the Republic of Croatia. Neither in reason nor in your introduction was it mentioned first by this working group and I quote the proposed text of the decision to be established by the Parliament and the Government, with how much money does it have to implement the programmes? Either we just declare a year of consumer protection or activities that should be carried out do not require any money. Is there any means in the state budget for these programmes? Any position, any ministry. And how much money is that? Secondly, you suggest that the Croatian Parliament, in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, set up a working group to prepare a programme of markings. Prepare who? The Croatian Parliament for adoption or for itself. So, prepare the program. Now, I'm asking the following. In the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship there is a Consumer Protection Act of the Consumer Protection Council, which was founded two years ago if I am not mistaken, here somewhere. As part of that, the Consumer Protection Council, and by law it must exist among other things, are representatives of the Consumer Protection Association, experts from that area, representatives of the ministry or the government's portfolio. To make sure that this proposal for a decision contains an invitation to the Consumer Protection Council to prepare and propose a labelling and education programme to the Government and the Parliament within 30 days. For what? And I note that the basic function of this Council is just to advise the Minister of Economy Resor. And how is it that only the Council didn't come up with one such project and came before the government and the Parliament or just the government or just the Parliament? This is a classic example where there are bodies of the Council, offices, institutions, institutions that we are establishing by law and instead of doing this job for which we have established and appointed them, now Parliament must set up a working group together with the Government to prepare and yet it is not known which programme we are going to implement in this year. Isn't this working group of the Government and Parliament too high? Do we know more about this than those in the Consumer Protection Council? Or should we know more about it? Furthermore, in 2007 it is an election year and it is clear to all of us that after the summer break, in the autumn on this topic no working group of the Government and Parliament will be active. And this decision means that first of all, and it's not known when Parliament and the Government will start a task force, then this task force will work on a program, it doesn't know who or how much money, and what will it do? When? It's a month's worth. It is not serious for us to accept the obligation that Parliament, together with the Government, will now form, and it is not known until when the working group or who will be in it or who will propose candidates for this working group, and we have a Consumer Protection Council. I suggest, Mr. Secretary of State, that you put the Consumer Protection Council in place. They work there on charges if I'm not mistaken. They have technical conditions for work. There's also a rule about their structure and work. They've been assigned a part-time job. They should be the ones to advise not only the Minister but also the Government and Parliament which activities in this year must all be implemented together in order to track down the new Consumer Protection Act and after its adoption, indeed make a great effort to educate or teach 4 million citizens of this country to protect our consumer rights, especially because we witness a large number of complaints and complaints every day. Secondly, I think that the most qualitative move in this programme that I say again must be proposed by the Consumer Protection Council would be a plan, a thermal plan to set up a consumer protection counselling centre. I remind you that even under existing law and also in the proposed law adopted by the Parliament in its first reading, the essentials of State intervention in the area of consumer rights are consultations established by the state, government. In the bill of law, there is no indication in the National Strategy or Programme how many of these consultations will be, where will all be established? How much funding is planned for them in this year and how much counselling will open this year? Flights, posters, calls, all of which we can do, but if, technically, we don't allow consumers on the ground to have an institution where they can turn, we won't do it. An action plan for the establishment of a counselling facility. It will be the highest quality of this programme and the great task force. And if we can do that, at least normally and financially, before the summer break Parliament brings such a program, we've done a lot. The only media in Croatia that has so far paid attention to this topic and helped citizens is Croatia's television by introducing consumer code emissions. How about we take an interest in other media in particular electronic and that it is an integral part of the programme, so if it is necessary for finance to have exactly these types of emissions that have nothing to do with politics and partying, which have nothing to do with the elections. Which has nothing to do with our outwitting in this 2007 is a priority because only if we reduce 1% of the cost to the citizens by good protection is in just one calendar year a billion kuna. That's a billion kuna saving the citizens of this country. With maybe 100 or 200 thousand kuna invested for a program like this. The previous topic was civil, civil sectors and associations. And in this area, unfortunately, we have a hyperproduction of consumer protection associations. There are even two associations of consumer protection associations. Not just 30 associations, as far as I know, but two alliances that are fighting each other instead of cooperating. And all the activities we've spent and given so far, and we've only brought down to that civil sector and these associations. However, it seems to me that there has been a very dangerous situation in this area that, instead of achieving consumer protection rights, they have also turned to a kind of activity that is dangerous, which is at the border of racketeering. Well, some of them are just on the phone, but they're forgetting the power. Others only deal with detergents and forget everything else. The Consumer Protection Council, which shall be composed of representatives of these alliances and associations, must be a corrective element of such behaviour. And that's why I welcome the idea, the intention and the goal that's set here. But I'm afraid we won't be able to make the proposed decision because there's no mechanism in the proposed text or deadlines how are we going to form a working group with the Government? Who are they going to give this program to? Who's going to verify it and what money are we going to take to its activity? I didn't prepare an amendment to the text of the decision. I appeal to the Secretary of State for whom I hope he has the authority to accept the suggestion that the programme be prepared by the Council that exists. To offer it to the government and Parliament. For the component to be money, in particular the action programme for establishing a consumer rights counselling centre in the Republic of Croatia in this calendar year. As well as the media or the inclusion of media on the recipe, system or experience of Croatian TV with consumer code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82968	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party colleague Ljubica Lalic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82969	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this decision we received in the proposal as it says, although we do not honestly see the effect of this decision. The aim of this decision is clear and this is to support and encourage consumer education, however, the impact of this decision is uncertain and this stems from the very text of the association. The very text of the motion for a decision. As said before me, the Croatian Parliament, in cooperation with the Croatian Government, is yet to establish a working group, says it will prepare a programme to mark the year of consumer education in the Republic of Croatia, as well as projects and activities to be undertaken and to educate consumers. The colleagues today are already in February and this applies to 2007. There's one saying that if you want to postpone something then name a task force and you know it'll never be realized. And so, in this direction, we are directed by this decision itself, which does not have a clearly drawn vision, does not have a clearly drawn strategy and tactics of achieving the impact of this decision, but says that it will be named, a working group will set up to prepare a programme to mark the year of consumer education in the Republic of Croatia. Frankly, even the explanation of this decision doesn't make much sense and it's not completely clear, so trust me, it's not even credible. Here he called himself to, with, explain that we will have a new Consumer Protection Act and that we have a National Consumer Protection Programme. I would like to remind you that the Consumer Protection Act was passed in 2003, that this law is also in line with the requirements of the European Union. The new law that was in the first reading last week doesn't make any difference compared to the existing law, and it actually comes to the impression that it's actually about buying time, and for creating an alibi, which is why 4 years nothing has been done to protect consumers in order to say it, so here we have just passed the law. Furthermore, this motion for a decision can somehow be interpreted as being followed by a general folk proverb that says the frogs saw themselves bitching, raised their feet to cause it too. And why is that? in the light of the proposal, the European Commission declared 2006 a year of consumer education, so 2006. We are now in February 2007, and we are thinking about declaring the current year of consumer education. I think it's a big delay. It is not on our mind to argue that consumer education is not necessary. It's absolutely necessary. And we were just discussing this in the first reading of the Consumer Protection Act, which only one article says that secondary and primary education programmes will include consumer education. We pointed out that this is the education of consumers only for future times and small part of the population while the majority of the population, and every Croatian citizen, every Croatian citizen and consumer is actually needed about the way and the possibility of eating the rights that the law gives them. The law itself really gives certain rights. However, these rights remain unconsummated. And if we are to conduct a public opinion survey among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the consumption of consumer rights, then we will get a clear answer that most of the citizens do not know what my rights under the law are. We have heard here today from the promoters that the main priority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is consumer protection, because that is the tendency of all democratic states, and that is what the European Union is aimed at, and it is indeed true that the European Union is targeted and that consumer protection is indeed a feature of a democratic society. A proper consumer protection policy is actually a fight against poverty. Because through consumers, the economically strong side of the relationship, in a commercial relationship, is absolutely certain to lead to population poverty. However, if we take the budget, and we will have a debate soon on the decision to redistribute the funds planned in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006, then we will not be able to find proof that it is a priority for this government to protect consumers and for the following reasons. All the budgets since the adoption of the Consumer Protection Act have so far planned to implement this policy. However, in the implementation of the budget, we have seen that the realisation of these funds is minor even to an embarrassing 2.71%. At 2.71%, no one responsible can successfully implement such a significant policy in the fight against poverty and protect the weaker parties from trading. Furthermore, it stands out with pride as it progressed in policy implementation, this policy. Because imagine, from 2003 until today, today in 2007, as many as 4 consumer counselling centres have been established, in the largest cities of Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, it seems to me. Well, that is certainly an insufficient number of consultations given the number of consumers in the Republic of Croatia. Given what consumers in the Republic of Croatia are exposed to, this is an insufficient number. It is good that it also points to local self-government units to include them in the implementation of this policy. However, we did not provide funds for local self-government units. And my municipality would very much like to open a counselling facility that would advise its 7,000 inhabitants, but there is no means to do so. And as long as the funds are not provided, as long as the consultations are not opened, as long as every day on the means of public communication that television and radio do not have educational programs on consumer protection, we cannot say that we are successfully dealing with this problem. Furthermore, the most endangered in the Republic of Croatia are consumers who are users of public services. And that's what we said in the debate. And as an example we've done, listed the users of the water from the system, the water supply system. We said that the whole region, the whole region for the price it pays for a drink, has no drinking water, but technical water that the population can't actually drink. How will Mr. Secretary of State protect this category of consumers? How will the consumer category that pays under the law be protected, according to the government's decision, by the government's rules of disposal compensation, and there is no disposal or system, disposal or in God's thought? Well, they're consumers, too. And they're placed in the consumer category, and they're completely unprotected. And believe me, if we could give the answer to those consumers, then we'd be more convincing and credible in believing that the priority of this Government of the Republic of Croatia is just the implementation of consumer protection policy. Should it be noted that under the current law, the National Consumer Protection Programme had to be adopted within a year. The programme was two years late and now that it has been adopted it will be very interesting to look at the exact items that were implemented by the programme. This programme also includes the education of citizens. And educating citizens contains. Now, it would be worth talking about because the applicant did not bother to state this decision in the light of this decision, but I expect that we will have a report on the implementation of this national programme and then we will see that the implementation of a declared policy, i.e. consumer protection policy, is supported only by a declaration and not in reality. So the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support this proposal for a 2007 declaration, the year of consumer education in the Republic of Croatia, although we stress in advance we know that this decision will not give the desired, necessary and expected effect, and when it does not give effect, it will not achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82970	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the Croatian party right club, colleague Pero Kovacevic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82971	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The Croatian party's right club believes that the proposal for this decision is as declarative as it is today in Croatia and consumer protection itself. So if you looked at the text of this decision, it comes from the text only the undeniable first point, which is that in 2007 it will be declared as the year of consumer education in the Republic of Croatia, and this is further so declarative, neither is it determined nor is it specific. Let's say point 2. says the Croatian Parliament will, in cooperation, establish a working group without ultimately saying who will appoint the working group, whether the Croatian Parliament will, on a proposal from the Government or the Government, on a proposal from the Croatian Parliament, which is happening more and more frequently and how many members will have that working group, this is not regulated at all by this point 2 of this decision. Now I want to know what consumer education will be about. At which point consumers will be educated when we know for ourselves what the actual situation is, the Consumers Act is not regulated and does not give full protection to consumers, and we witness daily that consumer rights are being violated, and unfortunately there are no legal mechanisms and means to put an end to it. You've heard for yourself, you know, that over 60% of the misdemeanor reports go out of date. From that part further 40%, 30 ends a misapplication by giving notice or reproof and 10% of those where the minimum penalty is imposed. And now who's satisfied with such consumer protection? Only those who violate those rights are satisfied, and we heard the other night and the chief state inspector. So they're the only ones who are happy. No one else is satisfied with such consumer protection. And now what are you people going to educate? You make demands, report to the inspection, the inspection will do its part of the inspector, it will later go out of date or be resolved by reproof or warning. Therefore, we are also late to agree with counterpart Lalic, in 2006, the European Commission was declared the year of consumer education for the European Union, but they have legal solutions that are effective and implemented and where consumer protection is allowed. Now, at this point, I really don't know what your work group program will be like when we know what the actual situation is and that this factual situation with the current legal solutions and the current way of working can't be fixed. There's nothing that can fix to achieve what we all certainly want to achieve here. So I'm saying it over and over again. This means the decision is as declarative as consumer protection itself and I do not see the effects of positive and good in terms of education. At least wait until the law is passed, and then perhaps we could educate consumers themselves a little more effectively, but without adequate legal mechanisms and means to implement it, we will talk about the same situation again. We will not be satisfied, only those who violate consumer rights will remain satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82972	Thank you very much, colleague. No more club reports. For individual debates, the first is the representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82973	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the opposition parties' clubs, we can certainly say that we are dissatisfied with the way in which this proposal is addressed. Of course, there is no doubt that the decision in itself is not so questionable that this year is declared a year of consumer education. It may also be convenient to repeat the reasoning written in addition to the proposal for this decision, which mentions that consumer education has also been a topic in the context of holding a central meeting in Vienna on 15 March 2006, thus declaring the European Commission a year of consumer education in 2006, with the fundamental aim of implementing consumer protection policies both the European Union and national policies, the principle of active citizens is defined by the principle of consumer protection. Of course, the explanation also says that consumer protection is one of the foundations of every democratic and free society and that is what the Government of the Republic of Croatia recognised as one of its priorities. Only now. Of course, this decision, which wants to be announced in 2007 by the education of consumers in the Republic of Croatia, has only 5 articles, so let me look back a little. First, this was already mentioned, why does the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament, establish a working group that should prepare a programme to mark the year of consumer education in the Republic of Croatia? From every project and activity to be undertaken for consumer education. It has already been said, when there is no vision or solution to solve something, then a problem is set up by a commission and is kind of transferred to that working group or commission. Let's just remember, I'm going to remind you all here, and also the working group that was founded two years ago, which was supposed to find a solution to how to correct an injustice against new pensioners. Until today, two years have passed, but nothing has been done about it. This means that there is a legitimate concern that this working group will also be really studioy and thoroughly preparing a programme to mark the year of consumer education. If it's so thorough, it'll probably take a little longer. On a proposal from the Consumer Protection Council before this House, the government was to come out with a concrete programme and deadlines and duties, not a responsibility to transfer to the working group. This would make it clear what is and how it is planned and what means this would be realised and what area of action would be dominant. In this way, we would know whether this is more based, that this decision is on the education of consumers in certain commercial activities or trades or on electronic media and on all sorts. We don't know what the dominant area of action is. There are certain questions that follow from that. Why has this initiative been waiting until now? Why has it not been declared as in the European Union in 2006 as in the year of consumer education? Who, after all, is interested in the fact that consumers are not sufficiently educated because we are definitely confirming by this decision that consumers need to be educated. How do consumers access information, what are their rights? And finally, the question is, why aren't our consumers fully conscious? At that time, it would not have happened as it was last week, much said about having a product at a priceless price on the shelves, and sometimes these prices have been highlighted that they are neither seen nor needed to read them, without mentioning the important detail of the product's validity. In particular, this applies to imported products which are at the end of the period and are therefore challenging or temptingly cheap. How long have these products been on shelves and did they run out of time? That's what consumers should discover or someone else, I don't know. Let us not think that inspectors will be able to detect any such thing simply and easily. Surely it is easier to do so if the law makes it a clear awareness of the consumer. None of us consumers need to be very smart to answer these questions and such a situation. Let's mention the free trade lobby here. Somehow we're afraid to mention it but it's obvious that it's a commercial lobby that controls and often has a greater impact than just the ministry that some things are not given or that they're inadequately educated... consumers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore not necessary to be fooled by such a decision to change something significantly. We have the Consumer Protection Act, I ask all of us here and, of course, our public, how many consumers know what rights they have under that law when most consumers don't even know we have that law. Let's be objective, let's not, of course, close our eyes to that problem. How much taxpayers' money has been spent on promoting projects from individual ministries because they have also promoted government and ministers, therefore, individuals and who have certainly been used for political or pre-election purposes or used. Do we want to devote ourselves to consumers this election year? I'm sure it's a great political move for the government before the election, but let's wait. Let's not get too excited, let's wait and see what happens in this area. Certainly, I will personally, with certain remarks that have been made so far, support, think it is good and useful for consumers to be further educated. It is not disputed, but the indeterminateness of this decision is evident and I expect, in any case, that Mr. Secretary of State here will be present to answer the questions that have been asked so far. And within what time will be set up this working group that needs to be presented with a concrete programme in front of this Croatian Parliament, not to be their document for which no one will know about it. Finally, to inform consumers or the public what are ultimately the activities they want to take in that year. Certainly, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which is responsible for the operational implementation of the programme, I say, should have done so long ago, but if we do not want to go before this Croatian Parliament within a month, the complete programme and activities to be carried out in this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82974	Thank you very much, colleague. Representative Miljenko Doric is still registered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82975	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to be very brief and I have to say that this point that we at the club talked about last week is something that I personally disagree with that decision, and I'm going to explain Mr. Secretary of State and why. Namely, when a year is declared a year of anything, in this case and in the year of consumer education, then it is time to do so in the previous year. We're already in 2007, we're already in February, we don't even have a working group we're proposing to form. This task force has yet to come with proposals, we don't know how we're going to form a task force, we don't know when we're going to do it in 2007, whether it's this year or next year. So this is something that I absolutely cannot agree with, and if the whole of Europe in 2005 has prepared and worked last year as a year of consumer education, why we in the Croatian Parliament and Croatia couldn't join it in any way I don't understand. Furthermore, I would like to say that consumers are primarily protected through a legal and orderly state. I gave you one example last time, not to change the subject I will now return to that example, Mr. Secretary of State, you remember the olive oil. I told you to go into the shops, take samples, send them to check, and you'll see that a lot of those samples that are on the shelves of our stores don't match what they say on the stickers. Under extra virgin oil, there's a lot of shit going on. Why is it so you need to know why consumers are not protected but at the first step when the product comes out of production, why is the rule of olive oil not respected, why many other rules are not respected? That's my question. So that's where we have to make the first big step, and then we just have to pass part of the responsibility on to the consumers themselves so they know who they can complain to, that they know how long they can get the goods back, that they know under what conditions they can bring it back and everything else. Furthermore, I think my colleague Lesar said in his presentation what we don't need any working group. The Consumer Protection Council that we formed two years ago can do the job and should do the job. However, I personally think that if we wanted to make a real shift this year then we can do so through a number of professional meetings, round tables where we will invite clear and consumer associations, but where we will also invite associations of graduate sanitary engineers, medical chambers, you from the ministry and others who will be able to make a detailed analysis of what we have achieved so far and on the basis of that analysis to see exactly what steps are ahead for us in the next period. And I believe that even the Croatian Parliament, given the importance of this topic, would have to receive more frequent reports from the Council itself, but also from professional associations that can certainly help us to help us as parliamentary representatives in this process. I repeat, maybe it doesn't always have to come to the plenary session. I suggest that your ministry sometimes send us certain materials, suggestions, initiatives to work on our professional working bodies, on relevant committees. These committees must finally take over both their part of the work and their responsibility, and if they assess, they should also come to the plenary session. Therefore, I will certainly vote against the decision. Not because I couldn't accept the year being declared a year, i.e. consumer education, but because it's really too late and because I don't think this is how it should be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82976	Thank you, colleague. There are no more registered deputies. The secretary of state also did not report for the closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82977	Proposal for a decision to declare 2007 "the year of consumer education in the Republic of Croatia". I'm voting on the motion for a decision. We can vote. The result? With 81 for, 1 abstention, 2 against and a few played the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82978	The next item is the agenda - - Report on the effects of the implementation of the island law in 2004 and 2005 Due to the busyness of the applicant who is not here please accept that the next item of the agenda will be - - There is no report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2005. We're moving on to that agenda point. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Gender Equality. On behalf of the promoter is Snježana Bagic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, so I would like to ask you for an opening statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82979	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In accordance with its legal obligation, laid down in Article 6. The Law on the Penalty of the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, submitted a report on the state and operation of penitentiary offices, prisons and educational institutions for 2005. This report therefore fully states that the legislative framework is also applicable, i.e. The competent authorities and tasks carried out in the legal system administration are therefore shown how the administrations made up of penitentiary facilities, prisons and the Centre for Education as a central office. With regard to the number of employees in the system, the prison system, or the detention system, has been established... jobs with a total number of 2 000 793 perpetrators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, at the end of 2005, a total of 2 000 380 perpetrators were employed, indicating a lack of personnel from 413. In a system that needs to work well and rests well on human resources, it is certainly not a situation to be satisfied with. However, starting with the fact that even in the absence of a number, the optimal number of employees in this system must function 24 hours and in the working days, the holidays organized the work so that there were no special incident situations, although even the number of them was reduced, i.e. in 2004. This has certainly been achieved through the organisation of work beyond regular working hours and through a different organisation of work. What is son qua non in all systems, which is one permanent system education, education during work, is particularly important in systems dealing with people, and also prisoners are people and with people who certainly require both special treatment and special approach and who is looking for specialization of those who work in such a system. So just let me mention then that during 2005 the total... Officials of this system have gone through certain forms of education, of course specialised according to what is part of the work of the perpetrators, especially judicial police such as treatment of alcohol and drug addicts, prevention of drug abuse in the prison system, treatment of those who are incarcerated with PTSD, hepatitis and AIDS, prevention of suicide and other risky behaviours, use of medium strength forces, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is a fact for the prison system is enough and written in the media, and it is good to write, it is to increase the number of prisoners and it happened in 2005 and especially those who execute the sentence in closed penitentiary, so they are sentenced to longer prison sentences and detainees. Compared to this trend of increase, we can say that in 2005, the capacity averaged 127%, so below that optimally secured number. Compared to what I just said the biggest... The prison capacity is in the penitentiary in Lepoglav, by these even 160% and in prisons in Bjelovar, Osijek and Varazdin approximately 160 to 200%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we look at the structure of the prisoners now, then the largest number of prisoners are those who committed a property crime of about 35%, followed by prisoners who committed a crime against life and the body of about 22%, and prisoners who committed a crime against the values protected by international law about 19%. Similarly, as the trend of increasing prison sentences is observed, especially on these longer sentences, it is supported data that, in terms of increasing the length of the sentence imposed, 32.4% of the prisoners endured a sentence of more than one and 2-3 years, respectively, and almost every 5 prisoners 18.5% support a sentence of 5-10 years. About 8.3% of prisoners support a 10-15-year sentence. As it is necessary to professionally improve and educate those working in the prison system also to work on the rights of the prisoners and to enable them to receive special treatment for their interests and to provide specific programmes so that they can deal with something during the maintenance of the prison sentence, so that during 2005, they are, of course, constantly doing so, changing the programmes in the content itself, providing programmes for both their education and their handling during the maintenance of the prison sentence. For example, these are alcohol addict treatments, drug addict treatments, PTSD patients, then who committed a traffic crime, prisoners who committed a crime against sexual freedom and a miracle worker who was a special pilot project in the Penitentiary in Lephead. If we look at the age structure of the prisoners almost 2/3 of the prisoners, somewhere 60% are under 40 years old, and every eight of them are sentenced to security. So... the obligation to treat alcohol addiction and intoxicating drugs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to special programmes provided to prisoners, one of the benefits and rights that prisoners have is work. And he's organized in both penitentiary and prisons both outside the penitentiary and prison. And those prisoners who have been in prison for more than 6 months have been allowed to continue their own activities and work with their own employer. The trend of increase will be applied... prisoners so that their numbers increased by about 7.5% compared to 2004. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The prison system is a system that costs a lot. This is why, in part, all the objections referred to the prison system, which cannot be denied or challenged in the sense that more investment on the one hand should continue to be made on the one hand, point out that both the significant financial resources to be provided in the budget and at other sources of funding, in order to bring the system that has been devoid of a level that we could consider truly satisfactory. For example, the average daily cost per prisoner in 2005 is 309 kuna, of which the direct cost is therefore for accommodation, nutrition, treatment and waste education of approximately 512 kuna. In addition to the general rights or rights relating to the work programme and general access to prisoners, increased attention is paid and special attention is paid to individual treatment of prisoners so that the maintenance of penalties, work, educational programmes, the problems facing them are accompanied by the health status of each prisoner at individual level. And according to the estimated performance during 2005, 2971 prisoners used 9,000 847 different benefits to get out of the penitentiary or prison. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this is a brief, shortened display of the numbered data in the penitentiary and prisons in the Republic of Croatia for 2005. Of course it is much more detailed in the full report. This report shows that the lack of personnel, equipment and the state of the buildings made it difficult to carry out work in the prison system. However, it should be pointed out and said that, with a clear emphasis on the fact that this is why it is necessary and it is planned in these next few years, it is a long-term process, I emphasized it and a lot of cost, additional investment in employment, their education, equipment,... Security, as well as building new prisons, the security situation has not been questioned, far from that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The situation can be assessed as satisfactory under existing conditions, difficult working conditions and I stressed that the number of incident situations has been reduced compared to 2004. This report suggests that we need additionally this system that is sometimes out of the spotlight unless there is an incident because whoever likes to deal with systems that are by their nature repressive or which we need to ensure that those who have violated social values are punished but also the maintenance of prison sentences, in particular their rehabilitation, must actually invest more in that system in order to achieve that level. That tells us, of course, the fact that I said it wasn't long invested and that we need to secure the funds to make it better. Of course, it also appears in the area of funding insurance and education so that in 2005, a number of activities were undertaken to ensure regular functioning and of course improved the situation. Special vehicles have been purchased, 7 special vehicles, means of connections, emergency police kits, a complete interphone system for a penitentiary in Lephead and the like. Similarly, to achieve system rationalisation, system savings and to focus on activities programmes and security systems, food production for its own needs and central drug procurement were organised, a menu for all prisoners was uniformly developed, a manual for prisoners was developed, then video protection projects were developed and projects were approved for the development of a new facility for prisoners in a penitentiary in Glina. This seems important to me what's contained in this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82980	Thank you to the secretary of state. Is there anyone on behalf of the working bodies? Here you go. The Justice Committee. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82981	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At the 51st session held on 23 January 2007, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the state and operation of penitentiary offices, prisons and educational institutions for 2005 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in an act of 21 December 2006. The report in question has been discussed by the Committee in the capacity of the home working body and on the basis of the competences set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. An exhaustive presentation of the assistant justice minister has been given in a comprehensive manner a presentation of the work of penitentiary offices, prisons, educational institutions and the situation in those institutions. Among the primary problems and in the work of the institutions is the issue of default of systematicised jobs, of which are the most important jobs of doctors, treatment officers and insurance officers. Special importance is given to the permanent staff of the prison system in the areas specific to the work in the prison system and the handling of prisoners. As the prison system notes the continuing trend in increasing the number of prisoners, there is a re-acceptation that will also be expressed in the next period. In this direction, enormous efforts are being made. There are projections of solutions by providing financial resources to the Ministry of Justice and using a public-private partnership model. In view of the type of crime in the structure of the prisoners in 2005, prisoners who committed property crimes prevailed at 35%. The following are prisoners who are crimes against life and the body, so the perpetrators of crimes against life and the body and 22%. The educational structure of the prisoners is not favourable. For example, every ninth prisoner doesn't have a primary school. 28.4% of prisoners have only completed primary school. Therefore, during 2005, 337 prisoners were involved in some form of education. In the reporting period, about 36.8% of prisoners were employed on average. The general state of security in institutions is affected by the ratio of the number of prisoners to accommodation facilities and by the number of judicial police officers compared to the number of prisoners and despite the unfavourable relationship in 2005 the number of prisoner attacks on prison officials has been reduced. The number of prisoners who refused prison food has been reduced. There is no greater increase in the use of funds against prisoners. A positive qualitative and quantitative shift in the expression and enforcement of alternative sanctions has been highlighted. In the debate, the Committee members supported the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions, stressing that it was an extraordinary, good and exhaustive demonstration of the situation in the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions which is a good foundation for the social community for the necessary activities. But also a good basis for working on scientific professional bodies. The objective reasons that led to the delay in the submission of the report are highlighted. The person's importance in the report is the problem of a drastic lack of staff according to systematicised jobs. Overwork in the work of day - to - day officials creates a large number of hours of overtime. These are indicators on page 7 and 8. Therefore, the problem of filling jobs should be an imperative of resolution as soon as possible. The members of the Committee agree on the need to support alternative sanctions and to further work on the possibilities and ways to implement alternative sanctions and work for the common good. For example, in Zagreb there are only two legal entities in which the work for the common good is carried out. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice voted unanimously with 7 votes in favour, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: A report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2005 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82982	Thank you very much, colleague. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has not reported. Committee on Gender Equality, colleague Caparin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82983	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, Madam Secretary has left. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 42nd session held on 23 January 2007 a report on the state and operation of penitentiary offices, prisons and educational institutions for 2005 which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 21 December 2006. The Committee considered the proposed act as an interested working body in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate pointed out that work in penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions in 2005 and earlier years took place in very difficult conditions, given the lack of prison space, poor equipment, lack of expert staff and financial resources, and the retrieval of closed-type institutions. It has also been pointed out that under such difficult conditions, the prison system administration is making great efforts to fulfil all obligations prescribed by the Penal Code. It is expected that the inflow of prisoners in the coming period will be higher in view of the changes in criminal law whether the purpose of the prison sentence is achieved as prescribed in Article 2. The law on the execution of prison sentences as well as whether all rights of prisoners guaranteed in Article 14 of the same Act are respected. For example, the right to accommodation suitable for human dignity and health standards, the right to work and so on. They also worry about the data on overtime both shown in hours of work and spent financial resources to pay overtime of 11 million 866 151 thousand kuna. In particular, given that there are systematicised unfulfilled jobs and the report shows that filling these vacancies would result in a multiple benefit of annual savings in the budget of 3 million kunas, a circus of 175 unemployed would be employed and the permanent overload of employees in the prison system would be reduced. The problem of permanent re-responsibility leads to the failure of spatial, health and hygiene standards suitable for human dignity and European standards, which was also warned by the Ombudsman during the review of the penitentiary, prison, prison hospitals and educational institutions. The members and members of the Committee assessed this report as a transparent and objective demonstration of the situation for that period. The Committee was particularly interested in the structure of employees and prisoners shown by sex. Since the 2003 and 2004 report did not have the data of such a type, the applicant did not do so when discussing the report, the Committee's suggestion that the following report would be subject to a breakdown of relevant data by sex, but nevertheless the applicant did not do so, indicating that both non-recognition and non-compliance with the Gender Equality Act. In the debate, the Committee pointed out the need for the education of judges and state lawyers through the Judicial Academy on the possibilities and manner of enforcement of alternative sanctions where possible by replacing the work for the common good. An opinion was put forward to discuss the previous year's report at the latest in the first half of the year. In the debate, members and board members supported the report on the state and work of the Penalty and Educational Institutions for 2005. After the discussion, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion. A report on the state and operation of penitentiary offices, prisons and educational institutions for 2005 is hereby accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82984	Thank you very much, colleague. We're going to a club debate. The first came to the HDZ club, counterpart Niko Rebic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82985	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Assistant Minister. At the HDZ Club, colleagues and colleagues, at the HDZ Club, we are discussing the report on the state and work of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2005. This is the report and the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report to the Parliament according to the Prison Penalty Law on the state and operation of prison penitentiary offices and educational institutions. It is good to discuss in the Parliament and that there are topics on the agenda such as those where persons who are sentenced to the maintenance of the fine as well as in which conditions they stay to gain insight into the state of the room, but also those who work in that system on the one hand and in the treatment of those who support and punish on the other. The HDZ Club says it's quality material. This is one of those reports that has nothing to add or take away. It's written correctly, precisely and clearly. As such, it should certainly be accepted and this will be done by the HDZ Club. But the report is visible, and it points to a number of problems and difficulties in the work of penitentiary, prison, and educational institutions. The Ministry of Justice, i.e. the Administration of the Prison System, prepared and delivered a comprehensive report covering the entire prison system, all segments of the system, structure and personnel, capacities, standards and conditions of accommodation of prisoners, security, condition of facilities and equipment, and financial report of operations with all problems facing the system. Unfortunately, the following needs to be determined. This report, which has been made both objectively and highly professionally, can serve as a very good analysis and only for all those who deal with the prison system, but not solve problems that are repeated from previous years. The system works both professionally and correctly most thanks to staff. However, the question is whether it can compensate for the lack of financial resources, the increasing overcrowding of prisons, and also the lack of staff in prisons. The best confirmation that it is a quality report on the situation in prisons and educational institutions is a report by the Public Prosecutor for 2005 which is normally required to examine the detention centres and prisons and other institutions that restrict freedom of movement at least once every two years. In fact, there is hardly any difference between the Justice Ministry's report and the 2005 police prosecutor's report. The lawyer also called on the government's report on the state and operation of the 2004 penitentiary. As the problem is also caused by a large number of detainees, it is also known that the Ministry of Justice has developed an analysis of the length of the detention period that the Supreme Court has met with the aim of taking measures to speed up court proceedings and shorten the length of detention. Unfortunately, however, the case law is relatively slow to develop. The importance of taking and other measures, such as those, is then highlighted. the restoration of infrastructure that is over a hundred years old in certain prisons and the construction of new buildings. The opinion is expressed that the solution to this problem exceeds the possibility of the Ministry of Justice, since it is mostly related to the need to increase budgets which unfortunately are not secured at the necessary amount for the past year. It has been pointed out that the Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are based on the evaluations given in the report on priority areas and have taken appropriate measures to address these most critical problems, so that the situation in prisons will be assessed as one of the topics in negotiations with the European Union. The fact that the Ministry of Justice considers its report to be correct to support the implementation of the envisaged measures and the creation of a favourable environment in order to maintain where possible and improve the established standards. It was also pointed to the fact that more than 14,000 prisoners were present in the prison system. Almost 18% more than in 2004, with 467 employees still missing. In particular, the problem of over-recipientation is highlighted, which should be addressed at a higher level. In addition to meeting the Supreme Court of Justice with the need to speed up court proceedings and shorten the length of detention, the Administration of the Prison System in cooperation with the Judicial Academy seeks to promote the imposition of alternative sanctions such as work for the general good or conditional conviction with protective supervision, thus reducing the number of penalties imposed. Also, through the re-use of existing spaces and the construction of new facilities, and the transfer of prisoners seek to relieve the currently re-scheduled facilities, and through certain international projects, efforts to reduce the number of people in prisons. Part of the remarks in the report concerning the treatment of prisoners showed great progress in developing specific programmes for the treatment of prisoners, working with addicts, alcoholics, PTSD patients in order to achieve significant results and the work of the Diagnotics and Programming Department, which works on the principle of individuality of the execution of a prison sentence, thus providing an orientational programme of treatment to each prisoner. This report, which we received from the Government, the Ministry of Justice and the Department of the Prison System, specifically points to the fact that jobs in the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions were not filled with the systematization of jobs with 2793 perpetrators, and at the end of 2005, there were indeed 2380 perpetrators... Over 400 perpetrators. [[You don't understand.]] There are no personnel of all profiles, doctors, judicial officers, etc. This is a serious problem because for law enforcement officers it is extremely difficult to spend so much time in overtime because it turns out that over 206,000 hours on overtime. The total capacity of prisoner accommodation in prisons was 3009, and during 2005, there were 3680 of them. The consequences, therefore, are that the standard of 4 metres and 10 metres of cubic space per person cannot be guaranteed closely, a large number of prisoners in a small space, increased tensions among them, the inability to implement specific measures to maintain order and security, especially risk groups of prisoners, isolation, etc. Finally, the report concludes that during 2005, the organisation of work... and educational institutions made it difficult compared to 2004 for reasons of increased number of prisoners and lack of space for unfulfilled jobs in the prison system. [[You don't understand.]] In particular for insurance operations, the treatment of prisoner health care, lack of capacity to execute prison sentences and the security measures of mandatory psychiatric treatment. Of course, it's not a good practice to discuss the 2005 report in 2007. Such practice should be changed. It's better to get the report 3 months later than this at the beginning of the year for what we've been discussing for a long time, but actually in 2006, we don't have any knowledge of whether there's been any improvement. As regards the quality of the report, the HDZ Club holds that the situation in prisons is realistically shown and the club will accept it, with significant resources to build new facilities in the budget, as well as the restoration of the infrastructure and the financial consolidation of prisons and penitentiary. So the club will accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82986	Thank you very much, dear colleague. On behalf of the SDP club, MP Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82987	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few days ago, just a few days ago, just pressed by this situation that's known, here's which you don't need to hide or can hide anymore, these are the words of the director of the prison system who simply called out in such a situation, don't send us any more convicts. The president of the association immediately called, Mr. Sesa, and said there was no pressure on the judges, that judges had to judge by law. Both are absolutely true and true, and it's not at all some kind of media bickering. But what, then, is what we do and how do we get out of this situation? The absolute responsibility for this is borne by this House, is borne by the Croatian Parliament which approves the funds, but also by the Government which proposes funds in the budget. Here is the final speech on behalf of the HDZ cube, a colleague said that the opinion and HDZ, in the next budget, should provide more significant funds for the prison system. And that's something that's repeated every year when you're discussing not only this report but any one, and when you're discussing the state budget, no one remembers this particular situation anymore. So I don't think we should settle for some next budget, the situation is alarming and very dangerous and very sensitive. There have already been some riots, a prison in Varazdin, the question is, how many people can go to such a small space, and we know what kind of people it is, to endure. It is a success, but it should also be noted that we have predicted exactly in 2003, 2004 what will happen. That is precisely because of the impasses and the abolition of certain incriminations, that is, I would say so here on behalf of the SDP club, by stopping criminal justice reform. These issues must be addressed in addition to having to act immediately, resolve and systematically. This means that we must conduct a criminal policy, that is, create such criminal legislation. We have already been promoted in this regard, it is saddening and the relations of grief precisely because such norms have been abolished, namely that only those incriminations are found in criminal law, only the most difficult and most deadly forms of certain harmful and dangerous social behavior. If we see from the analysis of this report, we see that a large part of our prisons are burdened by super-containers, it's those who haven't paid the fine. We've shut down the super-citizen's prison, now he's been reintroduced for the past few years and we've overloaded the prisons. So we have, right now we can solve the good part of the problem. So to get out of criminal law, we have already three or four times the SDP club has proposed such a law that was passed in 2003, we have proposed just discharging criminal legislation. There can't be all social dangers, starting with drug possessions to similar situations. Not because it's not socially dangerous behavior, but because it can't be everything that's socially dangerous in the Penal Code. The criminal law has ultimated the legal order. So to end the collegiate prison, relieve in this way both courts and certain behaviours to move to breaking legislation, and have no place in criminal legislation and what seems very important to me, secure immediately budget funds from the prison system reserve. The success of one mechanism can be assessed if all the joints that are involved in this mechanism work in harmony. As soon as things like this happen, or things that aren't well worked out, then this is the consequence. In fact, right now you can see in the prison system how successful we are in criminal policy. From discovery, here we are to treatment, to foaming facilities that can't satisfy their basic mission. Prisons and penitentiary facilities, or the entire penalty system, are not for retaliation, for the retribution of prisoners, but for the rehabilitation, rehabilitation and repair of those persons. Such a system of retribution, which is now due to inadequate, inhumane conditions, can simply be concluded that it occurs, i.e. that it is present, is an absolute theory in the penal system, was abandoned 200, 300 years ago when it was considered precisely the worse conditions that this is the purpose of punishment. Vengeance, redistribution, punishment for evil done. This has been abandoned by all modern countries, but it is not enough to declare in its criminal legislation but should then be done by providing adequate means. Here in 2003, at the end of 2003, we were visited by international institutions and assessed that our prison system was appropriate, at the time it was appropriate, or as an example to all transition countries. We have amended, or passed, the law that practically introduced the reform of the criminal justice system, the law on the execution of penalties. It was this Law, this bill, that was the basis for reforming the prison systems of almost all transition countries and the constant investments were in the prison system. Still not enough then, but that's how it's supposed to go on. Let's just remember that we secured a 30% increase in 2002, that's by the Law on civil servants and tenants, a maximum salary supplement, and the government estimated that the job of a prison guard was the most stressful occupation in the country. Therefore, the increase in wages is as high as the law allows at 30%. And by the way, we remember when they were reduced in other segments. I'm not talking about that circle wall with security, etc. So, you should now continue to invest in, you can't save there, and especially when we're on the judiciary, to a criminal trial, and then to raise and prevent the release of penalties where they're prescribed with high minimums, we knew what would happen to a prison system that wasn't supplied, which wasn't prepared for such a drastic increase in penalties. And we were at the SDP club to increase the fines, but for the most dangerous behavior. For economic crime, for endangering lives and bodies, but not for other behaviors that society can address more adequately and successfully. Then to a large extent, to be heard, we would not have any problems like this today. Also in view of the report by the Advocate General for this same period for 2005 and I personally asked for a thematic debate on the Justice Committee. I think we should accept this so that we can discuss it in detail on the Justice Committee there, even in certain penitentiary and prisons, the needs necessary and urgent to the prison system. Let's remind ourselves, there was also something about this and speech and mentioned by other speakers, that in our penitentiary and prisons, and also in the prison hospital, were co-workers of the occupier. What is mentioned in that report is indeed alarming. I know that even this report submitted by the Government, or the Ministry of Justice through the Directorate, cannot be as detailed as the Ombudsman did, and if some general, general conclusions are identical, yet perhaps we need to remind ourselves of this alarming situation, simply the cry of the attorney generals to us who make decisions about, and who can greatly influence that the situation is starting to improve in prisons as of tomorrow. In fact, let us remember the provisions of Article 14(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on the execution of a prison sentence prescribed by the saying that each prisoner has the right to accommodation suitable for human dignity and health standards. And in Article 30 of this Regulation on house rules in detention facilities, detention rooms must meet the spatial, health and hygiene conditions. But the conditions for the accommodation of prisoners, detainees and convicts in our home are very bad, that in certain prisons and penitentiary it can be concluded that they are below all health and hygiene standards and that they are completely inappropriate to human dignity. Due to inadequate accommodation in Croatia in 2001 or 2. was appealed to the European Court of Human Rights. And the Court of Human Rights then sentenced Croatia to a salary and to repairing it, and the situation in the prison in Lepoglava. Right after we received the verdict, and already there were some preparations, but then the entire government was mobilized and the opposition was then supported by the construction of a circular wall and was being arranged, there was a redecoration of the 5th wings of Lepoglava. Just because of such standards, new standards of prisoners and detainees are reduced capacities. Practically from two cells, rooms, there was one. That's how we've now reduced existing capacity. I note, precisely because of this condition that Croatia was convicted last year, so in 2006, by the Strasbourg court, of human rights courts precisely because of violations of the rights of prisoners. This is something that costs Croatia dearly, but what should be done independently of such a single amount because the next sentence will be drastically higher, therefore, and independently of that and independently of that, we here must be fully aware of the situation in which the prison system is located. Thus, for example, it is stated that in a prison in Sisak, the ground floor rooms in which the detainees are located have a large metal shadow so that they live in absolute darkness. The smell of mold is unbearable, staying in such a room, says it poses a danger to the health of prisoners. It is in the report "European committee for the prevention of torture and the human degratin treatment of punishment" among other things, recommending exactly the removal, at least the most necessary, those shadows so that these women can at least get the light. It is further stated that, for example, in Osijek, there are 20 inmates in one room. That there was no glass in one window, that the temperature was three degrees that night. In view of the condition that prisoners do not even open windows, and then stay in them is even harder because of such air. Even cockroaches were found that year even in numerous prison kitchens, even in the kitchen of a prison hospital. Sanitary nodes in certain prisons do not match the minimum health and hygiene conditions as well as human dignity. Somewhere they're not even blocked. The sick suffer the punishment with the healthy. We have patients with TBC, a very dangerous and contagious disease, not to mention those who are infected with hepatitis. It's a population like alcoholism used to prevail in our penal institutions, today it's dependent, and similar addictions then hepatitis and A, B, etc. So it's even mentioned here that the mice come out of every day, but it would be really wrong to accuse anyone in the prison system. They're people I say who consciously do their job, but who don't have the means. They don't have the means to put these people away, or to provide them with anything, any better. There was a situation even earlier in the years that prisoners along with guards were editing their dwellings, and the state seemed to care less. It's a concern and it's a state of the sea, and ultimately, citizens have to recognize that it's one need. Of course it doesn't always sound good that one country is somehow not considered as democratic as the prisons are building, but the prisons are necessary. We have these institutions from the last century and this government has repeatedly announced the construction of new prisons. The headlines will be built, but not until then, it has not been done, but the situation that we left behind in 2003 has deteriorated, because the amendments were constantly rejected to invest in the prison system because the prison system was constantly showing very carefully, but precisely in view of the responsibilities these people have there on the situation in which they are going to fall. Therefore, here is the SDP club that supports this report because it is quite realistic, regardless of what these dramatic cartoons are listed in a report by the Ombudsman for this period, but it will propose to our Parliament, or the ruling majority, and I hope that the rest of the opposition will accept that the government undertakes to urgently find funds for the prison system and also provide for measures to tackle the overall difficult situation in our penitentiary system both in prison hospitals and in prisons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82988	Thank you. There is one correction, Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82989	Well, I just wanted to say that it's not true that the situation worsened than the situation that my colleague left a few years ago, three years ago, but the judiciary and the judiciary started to work better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82990	The point is, it's not a correction, it's an opinion, so let's not be obvious. What? Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82991	Well, breach of Rules of Procedure, provision of Article 209. We may have a difference of opinion, but these are the exact data. I cited the information not as I'm assessing it, but I'm saying it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure because my colleague distorted my exact information by misusing Article 209. That's exactly what the exact data is. Look... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82992	Thank you. Unfortunately, neither the first nor the last to be used incorrectly with the Institute of Injury, or the correction of an incorrect assumption, which is otherwise a practice in this House, and then he would pray already if it were tolerated that it would then not go with the lifting of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure because it could be raised like that at any moment and called upon to do so. Well, I suggest we keep each other on lifting plates. It's time for the HSU Club and Mr. Representative Stephen Kozina. Here you go. What? ... HSU's club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? ... Well, it's not a replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82993	Here's Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Justice Department, colleagues and colleagues. Let me look back on that problem. Here before we discussed this matter, or this Report, this report is quite present in the press and in the electronic media, so you could hear all sorts of things there. Here I was on this "Piramidi" from Croatian television listening to where people have no idea what prison and prison system is and what is going on in prison until this "In srid" where this Mr. Pukanic very classically depicted what it is and every discussion is interrupted further. Here is the Croatian Retirement Party club, which will support the adoption of the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for the year 2005, which marks a number of problems, which meet the same in their work. First, the presence of a lack of space is indicated, i.e. a great fill-up of prisons and penitentiary. The Leprechaun Penitentiary Prison Part, I'm only talking about a star, it's been redacted somewhere around 60% and a prison, among other things, in Varazdin over 200%. It's actually impossible to even work here. According to the report, there are incidents in these conditions. If we know it's also about risk prisoners, we can only conclude what kind of problems occur, and that's what all the workers of these penitentiary penitentiary and prisons meet. I find it too much of a problem and I think it is necessary to provide adequate accommodation in a way that builds accommodation facilities and offices without any difference in how. Whether this is a public-private partnership or to provide budget funds to build it. We know that Leprechaun Penitentiary has been working since 1854. First it was located in the Pavlin monastery where the cells of very famous our people were actually in some way it was also the academy for further, etc., at least they called it, and later it was built so-called. A star that was built in the early 20th century that had not experienced any change until the 1991 fire. If you know '91. The year was a worse fire, and the fire happened precisely because unprofessional people came to the penitentiary and caused everything they caused. It means it's very important what people do and what people do there. After that, the fire has been slightly modernised, it has been made according to standards that require all the criteria that must be for such a type of institution. I think that prison accommodation should be built urgently since the number of prisoners is increasing. We need to know that we in the Republic of Croatia have 10,000 residents of 76 prisoners. While, for example, the Czech Republic has 160 prisoners per 10,000 inhabitants. As regards employment in the report, the presence of a lack of personnel is indicated. I'm particularly interested in the security service here. Personally, I don't think the lack of that frame should be missed. I don't know who you're taking for granted that there aren't enough employees of these security services. This work I think is a very difficult and responsible job that is subject to stressful situations and here is not a desirable overtime. I don't think it should be at all because the responsibility of these people is great. I'm particularly interested in how to go to a guard post where a physical worker has to be present if that filling is not carried out as required by the number of employees. It's not very vague for me like this. As far as professionals are concerned, I think there's a huge shortage in the penitentiary, and especially in prisons are social reasons. Look, if you lock someone up for the first time in prison, he's having some kind of shock, and if we don't have the most professional people to accept him, who's gonna put him there, there's a problem. Personal problems. It's a trauma for that man, and I think later on for the rest of my life. As far as health care is concerned. Me, it's my understanding that health care pays convicts a prison or a penitentiary. I don't know if anyone can provide sufficient resources for healthcare especially for polyclinic and consular and stationary health care, because these new methods that are present in the search are very expensive. Although they are optimal and must be a penitentiary, they pay high bills for that health care. That's where the shrinks aren't listed. I may not see such a big problem personally because, for example, the Penitentiary Lepoglava uses a psychiatrist and a prison hospital in Zagreb and it is very good for me because there must be a very, very high-quality and professional doctor, a psychiatrist who comes there and performs these tests and provides that health care of that vision. However, I have a problem with the fact that there is no primary health care doctor, and it is not because doctors there are paid as low-paying civil servants and we know that in public health they have significantly higher salaries of doctors somewhere and up to 100% more than they are in the prison system. Since this other healthcare care is well solved, especially giving therapy, pharmaceutical activity because they have a convenient pharmacy, they do not have anything special but this handy pharmacy satisfies these jobs that should be there. It also means giving therapy, for everything that has to be there. The report also mentions this work therapy. I know that no one is obliged to work in prison today because when he comes to prison, then he pleads, does he work or won't work? I know that the Penitentiary in Lepoglav provides the possibility of working in a wooden drive, metal drive, crafts activities and external activities. External activities are agriculture, vegetables and livestock. It is important here to note that they meet with competition on the market here. It is especially present in the wood industry where they produce very, very high quality furniture and meet on the market without any special benefits or help. I think that this country should do a little bit different, and that it should help the activity to be more present and that people are more trained because some people learn there and a craft that they use later. I wouldn't be here talking about prenatal, I'm not an expert on that. But I've been thinking that this retraining has been pretty good lately. It's pretty good, and so those people who deal with it are very responsible and they do that profession. Especially where this tradition is, for example, in the Leprechaun Penitentiary, where from the knees to the knee come guards, come these professional workers, etc., so it is in some way and tradition and it is already some guarantee for something better and quality work. But here I suggest that these capacities be built, because it's the most underlined and in the press, and it was on television, that these capacities be built if we want to have prisons and penitentiary facilities. I know they already have documentation to build a prison in Varazdin in... Street. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That should go to build it because the 200% transfer is high and we shouldn't tolerate it. Also to ensure that doctors are provided but in a way that the doctor has a salary as a doctor in public health rather than being paid as a civil servant because no one will work for that salary. According to this, this specialist consular and stationary health care should also be used as well, as this is a very large connection between the prison hospital and the penitentiary, so there are no major problems, however, for this one should be seen. And in particular, you'd be apostrophe of inadequate employees' salaries because it's still a special job. It's a responsible job, a busy job, that work is not a hobby, but work is a necessary evil. And I believe, therefore, that these people should be paid better, that the possibility should be found, and that this and the task of our Parliament should also be the conclusion to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82994	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, we will continue until we finish this agenda. There are still applications for 3 clubs and one, two, three, four MPs. If I may suggest, I'd like to ask that if we could shorten the debate a little bit. It is next to the HNS club, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go. ... HNS. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82995	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This report is written very comprehensively with a lot of data and it's good to come up with such data. Man doesn't get a chance each, so often come up with such exhaustive data on this subject. But it's a shame we're getting a report today for 1995. So a year, a year and some time late. And that report probably isn't as current today as it would have been if we'd gotten it six months ago, say. Let him. The problem report sorts into three groups. One of them's a little overtractive. There are 603 convicts in the system, extra prisoners. So capacity is filled with 127% and 2878 people are at 2200 optimal places. The biggest problems are in two places where the most sensitive cases are. One in Leprechaun where convicts are convicted of the most severe crimes and others in Clay where younger minors are therefore the social, emotional and psychological most sensitive persons. At the same time, there are too few officers in the system. 2793 so 413 employees from the systematization of jobs. 413 less officers. 603 people are more incarcerated. 413 less officers. All 3 institutions have a sufficient number of insurance officers, which is a little scary. What's the score? Well, those famous decisions made a few years ago that all governments are being held as a drunk float. It's behind me being banned from government service. So a lack of money that then results in a ban on employment in the state service, and there are places like this where such a ban should simply be forgotten before the situation becomes really alarming. There is something else alarming that is that there are no qualified persons, educated persons who could help not only in this part of keeping socially dangerous persons from harming society, which is of course the same part of the system and cannot be ignored. It's in this section about resociating and enabling these people when one day they come back from serving time to normally get involved in life. The lack of money on the one hand makes employment impossible, but on the other hand, overtime and, of course, unquality work appear. In some institutions, it's 41 hours a month per employee. 41 hours a month is almost 20% or 20% of working hours. This is not minor if it is known that some do not have overtime but because of the nature of the ministry. That's why some others probably have 70, 80, and I don't know how many hours of overtime in prison. I repeat in prison. So on a very stressful, very responsible job. A business that is certainly among the most stressful occupations in the country by all standards. It can't be any different by definition of things. The third problem these reports discuss are space and objects. We've seen a lot in the media. What do these objects look like? What does that space look like? Those American movies with the penitentiary are actually the science fiction that we're going to achieve when one day we decide to actually build the right penitentiary, not, not that our prisoners are in the most unconditional, unconditional spaces. I know what a prison in Carlovec looks like. That, I wasn't in there, colleague Kovacevic. I was visiting. I know what it looks like inside, and it's a perfectly unconditional space for any future resociation of the people inside. The Croatian People's Party Club sees three groups, not solutions, but proposals to improve things. Some of them are listed in this report, and some are not. First is political commitment. The sentence doesn't have any money, but it's a beautiful sentence that just isn't true. It needs to be finished. You can say there's no money for that. But you can't say no money. There's money in the system, but political commitment is needed. First of all, this House and then the government to get enough money into this system. That maintaining a prison sentence, that maintaining a prison sentence ceases to be the revenge of society because retaining in a room with 20 prisoners as it already is, is not a punishment or a guarantee of future resociation, but only revenge of society. It's revenge to someone who's made a sin. Now let's lock you up in that room with no windows, no lights with 20 others so you can see and never think of anything like that again. It's a message. It's not a modern message that's supposed to come from a prison system. So political commitment. Second, a misdemeanor and... The fines are 28.6%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So 28.6% of people occupy prison facilities because: (a) they don't have the money to pay criminal penalties or (b) they don't want to pay those criminal penalties because this seems more convenient to them. They're, like, unemployed. Well, they don't have anything to do anyway, so he better go to jail. He thinks you're a man. Third, the third element that combines and includes this second one is socially beneficial work. In the section on socially useful work, or on the work for the general good as it is officially called, there are some words about it in the report. There's an interesting fact in there. Only 21 institutions in Croatia have contracted with this system by which people who have been sentenced to a certain kind of punishment could compensate, pay, return to society by working for the common good from freedom. So a man does for the greater good something that should already be done, which the court tells him, but at his house he doesn't go in, he doesn't get into this system. Of course, this is about criminal acts that are not of such social danger that man should be imprisoned. I think it's the ministry's task to, in this way, to pay much more attention to the problem being organized and to finally do what the world is doing. This system of work for the general good is a well-known matter of criminal policy enforcement in all civilized countries. In our case, it's obvious in miniature forms yet. Interesting information about the educational structure of the prisoners. The report says 47.44% of the prisoners are actually uneducated, so they have no interest and the system should allow them to pursue punishment especially if it is longer to reach some kind of occupation. There were words just now that it was an extremely high figure. It's not an extremely high figure. It's almost the same number we talked about the other day when we talked about the Law on adult education. On the occasion of this percentage, around 41, 42, 435 adults in Croatia are uneducated, has only completed school base, has no real profession. It's not a different structure. So the structure of the people staying in these institutions corresponds preferably to the structure of the Croatian population. As it is, which is logical, of course. How are people acting in support of the sentence? There is a table on page 25 Reports with offences committed during, done by convicts during and with security measures taken against them. It's terrifying that drug use is at the top of three of those violations. This should, of course, be linked to the lack and lack of staff and to the excessive, overlapping of institutions. In such a system where the extra prisoners are missing people who work with these prisoners. Perfectly certain that it is possible for this kind of offense to be at the top. The system is sub-financed. That's clear, that's finally what the proposer says. With their own incomes, institutions' own incomes are participating with 9%. Which sounds like a small percentage, but let's keep in mind that this is about people who don't have working habits, most of the time, most of them, especially the maintenance of a long-term sentence. People who aren't socialized, who didn't fit into society, and that's why they're where they are. The income of 9% is commendable and is actually talking about the great effort and effort of the people who work in this system. It's on justice, justice isn't even between flowers is true. And if she wasn't among the prisoners, it's also true. The cost range, daily expenses, per prisoner moves from sad 196,84 kuna to hotel 747,87 kuna. It is clear that there are institutions where specific projects are carried out in which people with different types of offences, such as, or crimes such as Turopolje, reside. And there are other institutions, and it seems to me that this range is unwarrantedly large, yet there is really no other than the potential resourcefulness of people at the top, I don't see what other reason this range would be. All in all, the Croatian People's Party club will support this report. The report was made professionally and well. The people in this system are doing a terrible job under apparently awful bad conditions. And it's up to us here to actually help them, not to make them live better than to actually get that system to make sense, to resociate people who are sentenced to prison sentences, not to punish prisons for being mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82996	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Miroslav Cacci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82997	Mr. Vice President, assistant secretary of state. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club will support and support this report on the state and work of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2005 but with the observation that this material should have been included in the Parliament's agenda much earlier or together with the 2006 report, because then they could still compete and come to an actual state over these two years. This report is true very objectively, very professionally and it can serve as a guideline for all those who deal with this problem, thus the penological system and generally penology, as well as those who send people to prison. Unfortunately, the situation in the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia, as pointed out by the Department of the Prison System, is alarming. However, that alarm must not be given in a way that calls on judges not to send persons who have not paid fines and those to whom the sentence is less than 6 months because of overcrowding in prison. The Croatian Judges' Association rightly responds and believes this call is a pressure on judges and non-application of the law. It's a dangerous message because the laws must be implemented no matter what they may be. The judiciary is covered with cases, so this leads to the work being done well and even overly effective. So it turns out that because of too many convicts and the lack of place in prisons, overcrowding needs a reason for not applying the law. Such an inappropriate statement should be answered by the assistant minister, if she is indeed of the day. Because for the large number of executions of prison sentences, antiquity would occur if the judges followed the invitation as it was directed or as it was understood. Or perhaps the assistant minister wanted that responsibility for the prison situation transferred to the judiciary. The cry for such a situation in prison certainly should be, so yes, but not spoken this way. That the situation in the system is alarming will also be confirmed by an example from the prison in Bjelovar. The rooms in which the prisoners in the area and volume are located are inappropriate due to the pre-opacity of the prisoner in view of the possible accommodation of the prisoners according to the standards of 53. In 2005, the average number of months was 75 or 142%, and in 2006, the average daily state was 87 or 164%. So 22% increased in 2006 compared to 2005. These indicators are relevant, and they are given the right to claim that the situation is alarming because of the changeover in the legal capacity of the prison, which is probably the same situation in other penitentiary facilities and prisons. This changeover also affects the increase in other activities and does not contribute to improving human dignity, privacy, health and hygiene requirements and does not meet the standards of those that should be met. The prison in Bjelovar for the above mentioned restriction and halted the admission of newly-income prisoners infrequently and incomprehensiblely punished when high charges were reached. The restriction and suspension of reception has been achieved by a daily agreement with competent criminal courts and police administrations and those who are not dangerous to public security and the reception depends on the number of dismissals of prisoners. This revision of prisons and the increase in prison populations should be taken into account when preparing a strategy to stop further growth and also reduce it because it will affect a more favourable state of security, and the only way out is to build new prisons or re-use certain objects that might be able to adapt, reconstructions are being used these days and military ones. Unfortunately, I have to say this. That this situation has led you to believe that you need a relationship especially during this winter period. It's absurd, but it's true that people don't fear prisons, break regulations because of a difficult property situation, easily declare better to endure jail time than pay money. You've got warm accommodation, good food, and thank you. So the question arises, what did we bring down the prison system if we knew by the definition that prison was a repression because of the crime committed and at the same time general prevention. On this occasion, I will repeat our position, which was also expressed in the 2003 analysis and 2004, which are the key problems, which are actually a little bit spoken of. The question is the positioning of the prison system. The Ministry of Justice is not easy to run one such system, so we ask ourselves whether this system belongs to the Ministry of Justice or not. Of course, there are various models, but given our prison system as it is and what it is in Europe, and our Law on the system of state administration, we believe it is certain that the administration is seeking some independence in work, so it is finally time to leave the Ministry of Justice and get that independence. The Ministry of Labour of this administration is burdened needlessly, and we also burden the administration with a formal commitment to the Ministry of Justice. An example of such a move was also passed in 2005 by the State Protection and Rescue Authority Act. I repeat, that administration has really earned it. The second move to make urgently is to reorganize the prison system. The organisation that was asked before the 90s is whether it is responding today because, because of the more burden already imposed on individual courts, it is due to detention measures, but that is not the solution. So I repeat the system at the Ministry of Justice on the HSS club should not be, because there are problems in that too, and all of this that we're talking about today is the consequences of these problems. Of course, we would not want to be in the skin of people who have to solve these problems, but the fact is that we have to do something systematic and organisational. We will no matter what this report says, accept it because it is evidence of the situation, it is the sum of the facts, i.e. It's the actual state that we have today. No matter how much you invest in that system, it will never be enough but something has to be done because the situation is more than alarming. And finally, once again, we suggest to the government that we consider the possibility and the different positioning of the system and the administration itself, so when we bring it into some better independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82998	Thank you very much. At 13.50, the time for 10 minutes has elapsed. It is up to the club HSP and Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u82999	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Here I will try in the shortest possible time to state the position of the Croatian Party club regarding the report on the state of work of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2005. The shortest said, the most summary assessment would be that the report is excellent, and the state is alarming, catastrophic and therefore I would like to commend Mr Damjanovic here also as an assistant minister for having the strength to speak publicly and in this report, meaning without wrapping up the truth, briefly, clearly, argued what the situation is at this point in the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions in Croatia, and that is how all ministerial assistants should work, not paint the Croatian Parliament so that they can take appropriate measures and not that the situation is described as wonderful and wonderful, and we know ourselves in many areas we get these reports all wonderful and beautiful, and the situation is getting worse and worse. And for that I commend you and the part about being attacked by everyone else, I think you must be aware that you have realistically stated the situation and that everyone must be aware of the situation. Now it's up to us whether or not we're going to be able to fix such a catastrophic situation here first with the government. The truth this year you got 11 million kuna for capital investments, it's huge money given what you had last year in the state budget, it was about 720 grand, so there wasn't a million kuna, but it's got to be real and not enough. Let's just take a situation where no one here has spoken today so I don't repeat what my colleagues have been saying, the situation at the St.S. hospital. We also know the situation at the Sanhedrin Hospital. Unfortunately, for three years now, there has been a project that has been approved, a certified project, that is not to be put into that part mainly related to and tendering for the employment of psychiatrists within the penitentiary, I think it was also Lepoglava that it could not be completed. It's already saying enough what working conditions are like. So the situation is that the state of dissatisfaction with prisoners is normal when they are in prison, with the fact that they would not be said for these offenders, the unsatisfactory officials who work there are unhappy with the public, that is, dissatisfied with just the ministry that said it nicely. Now, it's a special problem, naturally, that there are too many prisons and the fact that many people don't have money and that they don't pay criminal penalties, but they're going to do it in the framework of a prison sentence. That already speaks a lot about the whole situation and the standard, and the position and everything. We've seen publicly that many have said, and listen, I'm unemployed, I don't have any money, what I'm going to spend 20 or depending on how many days it comes out when the fine is turned, infringed in prison. Well, I've got food, I've got something to earn. I mean, it's already saying enough about this whole situation and if we were to look at, say, and strictly maybe apply regulations, the question would be, because many of our penitentiary prisons don't even have minimum technical conditions. This means that if the rules were to be implemented literally in the work and the penitentiary would have to be closed if they were to be seen for, how to obtain a valid permit and all other situations. Therefore, it is a great job for the government to change the situation. There's been a lot of good suggestions here about the general benefit, so social work. Question and criminal policies should be considered, but I say, that's the question, we need to be aware, we're not going to solve it this year or year. This is a question that will need to be really resolved systematically over a period of 3.4 years. Because when we say this 11 million, which is normally a major increase for capital investment, even in one daily newspaper, it said that 11 billion were secured. So I was happy, I went looking in the budget, now I checked with the representative, it's not 11 billion, it's 11 million. It won't be much, something's going to be done, it's moving, but I'm saying, it's looking for a more comprehensive and extensive government engagement. But then I'm glad that the fact and us at the HSP club gave the assistant minister a real state of mind. He didn't want to paint, and we know ourselves that the ministries are always trying to make a situation in their area where they're responsible to show that it's far better than it is because then they're officials who do these jobs, they think what's a fake painting that and the condition, that they're both better and that the situation is better. So, really briefly said in the end. The report is excellent, complete but alarmingly catastrophic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u83000	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u83001	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. Well, by listing this report, I have to admit that I'm still in some things, regardless of all these praises that we have a little bit and a bit of a shock. I'll start with page 25, where you're talking about the severest violent crimes of prisoners and one of the most frequently mentioned serious constipations of prisoners is possession or taking intoxicating or psychoactive means. Now, I can ask myself and you with all the commendation to the prisoners how in a penitentiary or some prison can even get into drugs. If we look at page 35 here, we're saying now what illegal things are. We have an interesting plate, and when you see the amount of drugs that went into our prisons, I have to admit that some well-behaved drug dealers wouldn't be ashamed of it all. Now, I can ask a question and it's a shame we don't have a plate or schedule on which prisons or penitentiaries were found intoxicating drugs. Because I certainly can accept and accept that the lack of sufficient guards and staff contributes to the fact that drugs can be introduced. However, it is unacceptable for such things to enter the prison system at all. It would be interesting to hear how appropriate it was for people who work in penitentiary or prisons for such crimes. But when we see the score on the page, it seems to me, in the 39th, we first have something to do with the implementation. We see that from year to year the number of safe vehicles that could be conducted by prisoners is missing. I'd like to hear it, since we're only discussing the 2005 data that the shifts have been made. Because it's obvious, we can talk here what we want and I'm sorry there's no Madam Minister here. When we talked about the budget, when the amendments were tied to the budget, when we asked for some money for all that, it was all rejected. And then we get a report that's being denied because the fact is that the Judicial Police can work overtime, the whole system can be done perfectly, but if there's no money for something or if there's no priority as it is in this case, obviously, and it knew, here's the data and that compared to 2004 in 2005, the number of implementations increased by 18%. If so, a higher number of vehicles or a better and better quality organisation is needed. At 39th, again, I'm probably repeating what my colleagues said, but it seems to me that this repetition of us may help someone in the government to enlighten themselves so they can do something that they should say because it's only convenient. Over-capacitation of penitentiary and prison. Well, we can say what we want, but $11 million is too little for what we need. Too little. When we said that and when the budget was being discussed, then it's said we don't need it, we have enough. So wait now, this report was probably also known when it was adopted, and the state budget was proposed. Besides, I'm not sure that all these 11 million kunas will be spent and I'm sorry that the Minister doesn't have it here to tell us because she once has 11 million kunas for the entire system in the Ministry of Justice and once it's... I know what I'm saying, let Mr. Vice President go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u83002	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u83003	Why? Because there is no Madam Minister because she steps out in public, not the secretary of state. Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. The other thing is the failure to fill the job of a judicial police officer. As far as I know, there's not a single reason at least a financial reason not to fill the Judicial Police if at the same time we're giving extra money for overtime. Already some colleagues on behalf of the clubs said it was a stressful job. What's the reason, I'd like to hear, what's the reason, a real reason not to receive a proper number of guards who will normally do their job? And also despite everything we have to give credit to, then to those who work in the prison system that the number of incidents and that the security situation is as satisfactory. But what's on page 39 right away at the start of the bad, year after year we keep saying that the condition of the facilities in the prison system is bad and it's said here, I'm going to quote, "the condition of the facilities in the prison system hasn't changed since the 2004 report". Dear colleagues and colleagues, and who's responsible for that? Do the ministry and the government have anything to say about this? We are all here to determine that the report is correctly written, professionally but there is no responsibility behind it. Who's responsible for this? I stress in the discussions in the budget there were us who pointed out this because obviously the paper is suffering everything, but there is obviously no responsibility. I also remind you on page 40 about the equipment, I think because they're obviously here, that's the essence of things with us. Information and unification of the works of financial bookkeeping, etc., etc., was continued, but no financial resources were provided for its implementation in 2005. We can make everything alive, but who's responsible for not being provided with financial resources? Government. I'm telling you, here's what I was talking about, what's missing. All kinds of vehicles are missing, the most basic uniforms and the equipment of the judicial police are missing. I don't think it's supposed to be a big or too big problem after all. What I especially have to admit in some way is that in the assessment of the situation we can determine that it is alarming to re-emphasize unfulfilled jobs. I'd like to hear the reasons. Is this the government's assistant minister here because he doesn't want it or because someone doesn't allow it because he doesn't have financial resources? If he doesn't allow it then it's our responsibility and we have this year's never-greater state budget, I hope that this year will finally be done and here, this is characteristic, actually this is fundamental to this entire report. I will quote on page 45 that it may be that we all reach our consciousness, it is said that during 2005, the organisation of work was difficult compared to 2004, so the situation is weaker and harder and for the last reasons, but it seems most important to me. Undersecure financial resources in the state budget and the non-covering of debt from earlier years. The fact that they're uncovered is clearly over the years and the same thing over and over again. I do not blame any government for this, however, is there political will in this country to resolve or resolve this problem? And now some practice related to alternative sanctions in practice. You see, it's just funny to me that the Ministry of Justice as a parent ministry is not in co-operation with courts or with the Association of Judges, with everyone else making it seem like we only have 28 municipal courts giving me an alternative sanction. There's something wrong with that. Is that a problem with the education of judges, is that a problem of ignorance, is that a problem that someone doesn't want to do something? And we see that we have a problem with making extra prisoners and where they should and where they shouldn't be. By the way, I would also ask the question which are the reasons that there are no more legal persons in which the work is done for the general good, and if you look at what these are now or in which places are institutions where it can be done, or even companies compared to where the prisons are, then we have total disproportionateness. Someone made an appointment between us. I'd like to get some information on why there's so few of them. Is it a small interest in this country to get relatively cheap work, and at the same time to close it up a little bit or what it does. And in the end, I'd still ask a question about a new prison in Varazdin. There were words here like there was documentation. Last year, before the budget was discussed, I heard a project of a new district prison in Varazdin on local media in Varazdin County. I didn't see it anywhere in my budget. There's no money planned for that. We can have the paperwork, only when will it be? It seems to me that this moment given the situation as it would be a much better solution, at least financially, and that we get something right away to build the attic of the Varazdin County Prison because while we build a new one, a lot of water will flow through the Drava River.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u83004	Thank you. Mr. Representative, Vice President Mato Arlovic. He's gone. Mr. Antun Kapraljevic. Also, he's gone. And Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u83005	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Given Mr. Vice President's request to be brief, I'm really going to try to cut my exposure short, so there are more reasons for that. I've never had the opportunity to use the services of some of our penitentiary, and I've never even been to visit anyone, so I'll talk about quite one other aspect, or colleague Vuljanic, or you've more or less touched all those elements that I wanted to talk about, but I'd like to touch something that my colleague Korenika just recently said, partly elaborated, and I'd only continued briefly on the subject, and that's just work for the general good. Namely, let me read three sentences from the final, last page of this report. Those three sentences are next. In the situation of permanent transfer of the prison system, the pronunciation and enforcement of a number of alternative sanctions there is a necessary need. I think we all agree on that, an excellent finding. The second sentence, along with the discharge of the prison system, is the enforcement of alternative sanctions by safeguarding and working for the general good and has a significant economic and financial impact. Third sentence. Finally, a major qualitative and quantitative special shift in the expression and enforcement of alternative sanctions during 2005 must be highlighted. I don't think I'd agree with that. There ceases my consent with this part of the report. It's incorrect, I think it's done a little bit and absolutely not enough. Similar questions were asked by a colleague of the Korenika. First question. Why do we have only 20 legal persons in the entire Republic of Croatia in which there has been execution or punishment for the common good? Another question? What has made your ministry take advantage of this possibility in state institutions and achieve this financial effect that you are talking about here? I agree with that. Third question. Is it, for example? Croatian highways, Croatian waters, Croatian forests, Croatian electricity and other major state systems do not need to use free work of convicts? Can't they cut grass along the highway, collect papers in a park, clean beaches, paint fences in schools, clean irrigation channels, build and collect municipal waste? Not just these two cities, but all over Croatia. Can't women convicted of certain violations clean twice a month glass on your ministry building, etc., etc., etc. If we better analyze the list of these legal entities then we'll see that 50% of them belong to the category of those institutions where apparently these convicts are guardians and breeders. Homes, centres for older and powerless education, etc. At the same time, judges often tell us that they have no place to direct individuals who are punished for serving exactly this kind of punishment. It is similar, though, in the civil service of the military, there are more, but these boys must first find a place in a child’s home, in some places I don’t know the mangers, kindergartens, and then be directed there. So there's no organized, no organized attempt to really exploit the work of these people, to achieve financial effects. At the same time, we have a shortage of workers in construction, metal industry, everywhere we look in the tourism that we are on the Adriatic, etc. Unfortunately, nothing is used in any system in civil service and we see that the situation here is very, very similar. Therefore, I would very much like to know why it is so, why there is no agreement between your ministry and other ministries that at least in state institutions, things change significantly for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u83006	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Madam Secretary of State, Honorable Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u83007	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Today's debate on the State and Labour Report of the Penitentiary of Prison Institutions has driven me out, there has been a lot of talk about figures and statistics. Let's take a look at the comparative data that Croatia stands with a number compared to other countries, especially transition countries by number of prisoners compared to other countries? The example for comparison is 100,000 prisoners, residents of pardon, and Croatia now does not know if it is good or bad so to say it is the best or worst, because it is still about convicted persons for social, violation of social rules of conduct having 78 prisoners on 100,000 residents. All other countries such as the Czech Republic, Poland, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Slovakia, Hungary, Lithuania have much more. For example, Latvia has 337 and Bulgaria has 143 prisoners. Since this is not the subject of today's debate, I leave it to you to assess whether this is actually good or bad? Is this talking perhaps the first of all about the openness of the system and society, on the other hand, it may seem that we are not punishing enough persons who violate social rules of conduct, and then, accordingly, depending on the sanction imposed and closing them. But I really must thank you for today's debate because what is said about the report itself and its content is that this report is honestly written, with facts and data that nothing is hidden. There's no need and it can't be hidden. Because if we ourselves close our eyes to facts, we cannot help or change our condition or improve ourselves. And experience tells me that such and such attempts are usually ungrateful. So, that report that exactly tells the facts, the statistics on the status data, the number of prisoners, the judicial staff, or the judicial officers, etc. This report certainly points to problems because the figures themselves speak for themselves. I personally would not agree with the remarks, with criticisms that but not with remarks and assessments that the situation is alarming. I don't think it's alarming, although it doesn't need to be needed, and even some relatively short measures, urgent measures that need to be underestimated. I don't think it's alarming in spite of the difficulties and despite the difficult condition of buildings and equipment, the situation is satisfactory and there is no danger of the security of the system, therefore, first those working in this system and on the other hand and those in the system. Because even though it has been said here many times, it is the people who have sinned against the social system, they should not be punished for it in the sense that they are already in prison for us to pay them back and deny them human rights. And it doesn't happen in our prisons. Our prisoners, although, we must write it correctly, it says here in crowded areas, and it needs to be changed urgently, they have guaranteed those human rights as regards their treatment in relation to their diet, in relation to health care, in relation to their resociation programmes, in relation to their work. And that's what's important to say. It should also be said that the people who work there are professional and are constantly improving professionally. The second question and what, so I say state I would not consider alarming but rather a state that is satisfactory at the moment and which is why the system is not compromised but requires further improvements, especially when it comes to buildings and infrastructure. The moves were made, the criticism was justified that the report had arrived quite late. That's why it's an opportunity to actually say that the shifts are made. Meanwhile, the new 67 law enforcement officers were employed. It has turned out that there is really no point in paying overtime, jeopardizing, however, because of their additional commitment to the security of the system rather than hiring and educating these new staff. The condition of the vehicle has been improved since new 7 special vehicles popularly called "Marica" have been purchased. Also for means of operation... As far as working for the common good at large is concerned, I am pleased that this question has earned due attention in this report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The number of legal persons with whom we have contracted to work for the general good on the loose in the meantime has increased from 20 to 70. So we have 70 of these legal entities. At this point, the number of persons with whom we have contracted is satisfactory in relation to the fine imposed on the general good at large. And that seems logical and justifiable to me, the structure of these legal persons is necessary and not only follows the places where the prisons are held because those persons are executed according to the place of residence, or they execute that sentence for the general good at large, and therefore there is a logical dispersion of the legal persons with whom the contracts are concluded. As far as the budget is concerned, no one is responsible and especially we who are in charge of this system at the Ministry of Justice cannot say that these funds are sufficient. They won't be enough for years. When the budget is voted and spoken of, no one can even say that it is sufficient funds, sufficient resources for the total of budget resources to be provided for all purposes, and we all know how much the need is in the various resources portfolios. However, what is important and important to emphasise is that in this year these funds are significant in the budget. I stress not enough but are significant in the budget. Compared to last year for 700 thousand years when it comes to infrastructure investments... 11 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these funds will be spent on hospitals for people deprived of liberty and completing the construction of the Clay Penitentiary for which we already have completed projects because we really need to spend these funds that aren't enough then as planned. I don't think we're gonna have any trouble spending these 11 million kunas this year. And I'd like to take a closer look at it because it deserved attention here. On, in communication or perhaps a small malfunction in connection between the prison system enforcement administration and the judges' association, this is happening and not all the media should be blamed for. But it happens when you read how a journalist extracts a title and a subtitle without reading the text content to make such a misunderstanding. At no time did anyone from the Department of Justice, including the person in charge of the execution of the prison sentence, call on or invite judges to give some measures and not to send persons to prison. This was about... The sentence of prison, the criminal sentence of a prison where it was really simple and what someone here said, was to agree on the dynamics of the execution of a prison in order to reduce the burden of overwork but not to have anyone access to the execution of a prison sentence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're only on schedule whether someone's going to go on a week, this week or next week or two? Therefore, it was a guideline that referred to our penitentiary and prisons, the managers of these penitentiary facilities and prisons. And that, that dynamic of going into execution and... The punishments deal with judges about execution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in no case could the appeal or could be an impact on the judges, the judicial authority in respect of the type of measures, the sanctions they will impose. We are pleased that the misunderstanding has been removed and that the president of the Association of Croatian Judges has said so publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u83008	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Resume session. The vote is at 3:00. I ask the MPs and the MPs to bring the voting keys and I'll see you very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u83009	I am voting on the following conclusion: the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2005 is accepted. Please pay particular attention to the vote behind this conclusion. The result? 84 for, 3 abstentions, with the majority proposed conclusion. We also have a proposal for the conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to urgently secure resources in the state budget for the needs of the prison system and to find measures to resuscitate and improve the situation in all penal institutions. To vote on this conclusion. You're welcome to engage. Vote! The result? With 26 votes in favour, 3 abstentions, 59 against that conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u85132	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! At the 51st session held on 2 February 2007, the Committee for Elections and Appointments and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the National Committee. First. A member of the National Committee, Vesna Dejanovic, is being dismissed as a union representative. Secondly, as a member of the National Committee, Ana Knezevic is called a union representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u85133	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote! The result? Together with 80 votes, National Committee member Vesna Dejanovic, named Ana Knezevic, is a member of the National Committee. Elections, appointments and resolutions. Committee Chairman Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u85135	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 45th session held on 12 July 2006, the Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to elect vice-presidents and members of the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. First, for the vice-presidents of the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, Zdravka Ćufar Sarić, a graduate lawyer from Zagreb and Aleksandra Jozić Jeleković, a graduate lawyer from Zagreb, is elected. Second. Members of the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia are selected: Davor Orlović graduate lawyer from Zagreb, Zorislav Ham graduate lawyer from Osijek, Josip Vresk graduate lawyer from Ivanac, Vlatka Kovacevic graduated from Čakovec. Number three. The term of office of Vice-Presidents and members of the Committee shall begin on the day of entry into office, and shall take place on the day of their oath before the President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u85136	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 89 votes for and 3 abstentions, Zdravka Ćufar Sarić, Aleksandra Jozić Jeleković was elected for the vice-presidents of the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia and for the members of Davor Orlović, Zorislav Ham, Josip Vresk and Vlatka Kovacevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u85137	At the 52nd session held on 8 February 2007, the Committee for Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the proposal for a decision to appoint the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament. For the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament, Boris Abramovic is named.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u85138	I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u85139	And I appeal to Mr. Abramovic to finally prohibit smoking in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u85140	I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Please, let's get on with it. Can we vote? The result? With 95 for and 1 abstention of the proposed decision. We've got Interpol. Please, dear representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u85141	Mr. President! Thank you for giving me your word. I have to do it again. Right now, after that point, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has been gone for months, for months there are no members because after Mr. Vice Vukov's disease, we don't have a member. I appeal to both the Parliament and the SDP whose place it belongs to, indeed, to fill that place, because it is a shame that it is simply that there is actually not one place filled in from the opposition at this point, which would contribute safely to discussions and conclusions. Please give us a committee representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u85142	I agree. Since he's...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u85143	Well, you already said that once.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-02-0.u85144	Dear Representative Vice Vukov from the SDP Club's quota please make a nice suggestion to a colleague or colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It is on the agenda: - Interpletion on the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the situation in the textile and footwear industry in the Republic of Croatia due to a deviation from the policy established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2003-2007 programme. — Proposers of 17 MPs pursuant to Article 195. Rules of Procedure 17 of the MPs submitted the interpretation. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted the report you received at the session. Representative of the Proposer, respected representative Željko Pavlek, Pavlic will further explain the interpretation. Here you go.
