ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90249	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of the 26th session of the Croatian Parliament. And I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the government's representatives present. In order to facilitate benching, you are given a consolidated agenda to continue the session. We move to - Final proposal of the Foreign Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 701 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Immigration and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary of the Interior Ministry Mr Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90250	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honored ladies and gentlemen of the council. You have before you a proposal for a new Foreign Law. There's a new proposal for a new Foreign Law before you. The law applicable to foreigners has been adopted, published in the "National Journal" 109 since 2003, and has been applicable since 1 January 2004. Since the application of this law has identified certain problems, certain legal gaps, and in particular that certain solutions are not compatible with the standards governing the problems of foreigners in the European Union, they have joined the creation of a new law since the regulation of this matter in the way that has been resolved in the European Union has required a lot of changes and it has been rational and economical to pass a new law since there has been a question as I have said a lot of newspapers. In particular, I note that the obligation to bring the Foreigning Act into line with European property directives and stems from the obligations made out of screening for Chapter 24. Justice, freedom and security, Chapter 23. Justice and fundamental human rights and Chapter 2. Freedom of movement of workers. This proposal has made some changes, and some new institutes have been introduced that have not been in the existing Foreign Law so far. The division of visas and visas shall remain an authorisation for entry, stay or transit through the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia prescribes the visa system of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the type of visa is an airline transit visa, visa A, transit visa, visa B, and travel visa, visa C. Visa in... diplomatic missions, i.e. the Consular Office of the Republic of Croatia, and especially if this is required by humanitarian and serious professional or personal reasons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The police station responsible for controlling the crossing of the state border may issue a visa for one entry within 15 days, a transit visa for one transit to 5 days and a transit visa for a seafarer or a group of seamen. The biggest newspaper in the area of visas is the establishment of a Croatian visa database, while the ministry responsible for foreign affairs and the central state visa issue body will be able to control or identify the number and identity of the persons to whom the visa was issued. Furthermore, foreign residents are arranged as short-term up to 90 days, temporary stay and permanent stay. Short-term stay is a stay of strangers for up to 90 days based on visa or visa-free. If a party enters the Republic of Croatia without a visa, it may stay for a maximum period of 90 days for a period of 6 months counting from the date of first entry. The temporary stay may be approved for the purpose of family integration, work, secondary education and study, scientific research and humanitarian reasons with special emphasis on foreigners identified as victims of human trafficking. This is particularly important to point out, therefore, for this category of foreigners who have been identified as victims of human trafficking that they will be allowed a special regime of stay in Croatia precisely because of a very sensitive issue. The proposal for a law sets out in detail the approval of a temporary stay for the purpose of family integration and the protection of victims of human trafficking, in accordance with Council Directive 2003/86 of 22.9.2003, and on the right to family and Council Directive 2004/81/EC of 29 April 2004 on the authorisation of the residence of third-country nationals who are victims of or who are victims of trafficking of human beings and who are assisted by illegal immigration and who cooperate with the competent authorities. The approval of a temporary stay for the purpose of family integration may be granted to a foreigner who is a member of the Croatian citizen's family, a foreigner who has been granted permanent stay, a foreigner who has been granted a temporary stay for the purpose of scientific research of a foreigner who has been on a temporary stay for at least 2 years and who is still granted temporary stay for a year of a foreigner's status. It is also a definition of persons who can be considered members of a family, such as marriage mates, persons living in an extramarital community in accordance with Croatian legislation, underage children who did not start their own family, who were born in a marriage or an extramarital community, or were adopted both by parents or adopters of minor children. Therefore, the definition of members of the rope family was made so that there was no confusion in approving the stay with the basis of the merger of members of the rope family. It is also prescribed that temporary stay for the purpose of family integration will not be granted to a member of the family of foreigners who has been granted temporary stay for the purpose of seasonal work, and... the operation and provision of services on behalf of the foreign employer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The paper in the Bill's proposal is that the temporary stay for family integration will not be approved if the marriage is for benefit. And then it is prescribed what circumstances may indicate that marriage is beneficial, or precisely regulated, when someone is trying to make a marriage, a fictitious marriage, to approve a stay. And in order to avoid such a possibility, this institute was also introduced that the stay for family integration would not be granted to persons who had entered into a marriage for the benefit of a fictitious marriage. A temporary stay for humanitarian reasons may only be granted to a stranger if he has the status of a victim of human trafficking, if a minor who has been abandoned or a victim of organised crime or for other reasons is left without parental protection, custody or escortship, for other justified reasons of humanitarian nature. The identification of victims of human trafficking shall be carried out by the Ministry in cooperation with civil society organisations, and the status of the victim shall be obtained by accepting participation in the assistance and protection programme. The assistance and protection programme includes health and psychosocial protection, safe accommodation, translation and interpretation services, legal assistance and safe stay, return to the country of origin. The victim who has been granted a temporary stay has the right to secure accommodation, health care, financial assistance, education and work. I repeat again that this is one of the most important institutes of this law because the monster of human trafficking is becoming more and more pronounced and this institute will certainly allow one more humane approach of the competent authorities and institutions of the Republic of Croatia to persons who are victims of human trafficking, and unfortunately many of these channels pass through the Republic of Croatia and in case such chains are interrupted most often by people who are victims in a bad situation, and this solution will fix their situation and position. General conditions for granting temporary stay to foreigners in the Republic of Croatia are means of maintenance, insurance, health insurance, proof of justification for purpose and that there are no other legal obstacles, e.g. cancellation of stay, security reasons, etc. Provisions governing the approval of a permanent stay have also been harmonised in such a way that a foreigner has an uninterrupted period of five years until the date of application. The outbreak of foreigners is also prescribed as important, to know exactly how much time a stranger may be allowed and may emerge within that period of five years, and not to break his status of temporary stay as a condition for obtaining a permanent stay. Thus, it is prescribed that foreigners who do not have an effect on the period of five years, which is required for the approval of a permanent stay, be single or multiple outbreaks of foreigners from the Republic of Croatia, which cannot total more than 10 months, and may not be more than six months on a one-time basis. There are also categories of foreigners who cannot be granted permanent stay if they were based in the Republic of Croatia on approved temporary stay for seasonal work, babysitting and family stay for the purposes of learning Croatian language and service providers on behalf of foreign employers. Customers who are on temporary stay for study purposes in the Republic of Croatia when deciding on a permanent stay application will only be taken into account half of the period spent during that period. Also for the sake of faster integration into Croatian society, a new condition is prescribed for the approval of permanent stay, that is to say, knowledge of Croatian language and Latin script, and the scope of the rights which are exercised by foreigners in permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia. The foreigner shall have the right to work and self-employment, professional training and education of student scholarships, social care, pension and health insurance rights and children's allowance, tax relief, access to the market for goods and services, freedom of association, so all other rights regulated by the regulation relating to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In the head of the abandonment measures of the Republic of Croatia, the obligations of the parties to whom the stay for leaving the Republic of Croatia has been suspended are prescribed, and the decision to banish other than the courts is now the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior, which we consider an important newspaper. It will therefore significantly rationalise and speed up the procedure so that it will not be necessary only for courts which are otherwise overrun by other cases to decide on the exorcism but also for the Ministry of the Interior to decide in the process in whose jurisdiction and the implementation of this law is. The head relating to the work of foreigners shall contain provisions guaranteeing the level of rights for foreigners as well as for Croatian citizens, in particular the rights relating to the prescribed maximum duration of working time and the shortest duration of rest, the shortest duration of paid vacations, minimum salaries including salaries for overtime, health conditions, protection of work, protection of employment and employment measures for pregnant women, women and minors and... discrimination. It is therefore a wish for the legislator to avoid any discrimination on working conditions and labour rights for foreigners. The proposed law stipulates that the Government of the Republic of Croatia lays down an annual work permit quota by 31 October of the following year at the latest. The proposal for an annual labour licence quota shall be drawn up by the Ministry of Labour on the basis of the opinion of the Croatian Employment Institute and the representatives of the social partners. As a newspaper, the provisions on volunteer work have been laid down and categories of foreigners that can be granted work permits outside the annual quota have been extended. The conditions for issuing and revoking work permits and business permits are also specified, and categories of persons who can be issued with the emphasis that business must have an impact on increasing economic activity in the Republic of Croatia are also prescribed. The paper in relation to the applicable law is that business permit is no longer at the same time the approval of temporary stay and work in the Republic of Croatia but refers exclusively to the work permit. So far, there has been a number of abuses of business permits used in such a way as to be issued to people who have not contributed to economic activity, but they have also gained the right to work and to stay. The conditions for issuing a business permit are strengthened in such a way that business permits can be issued to the founders of their own company, which are registered business activities in the Republic of Croatia, craftsmen who have registered business activities in the Republic of Croatia, persons who are engaged in free interests and service providers on behalf of an foreign employer. A business licence may only be issued on the basis of the consent of the Office of State Administration responsible for the economy, i.e. the consent of the Office of State Administration responsible for the activity carried out by the party and if the party proves that it will introduce new products and encourage the creation of new jobs. This is one of the important measures because, as I said earlier, there was a series of abuses of business permits so that last year we had more business than work permits and apparently this institute was often abused. By regulating the business permit institute in the proposed law, we will significantly prevent the abuse of this institute. A foreigner who has been granted a business permit cannot start working before being granted a temporary stay. A business permit will be invalidated if it is issued on the basis of false data, if a foreigner performs operations for which a business licence has not been issued. So the tax arrangements and the reasons for the cancellation of the business permit are prescribed if, despite this, it is now regulated, it continues to try to abuse itself. In the head of the residence and residence of foreigners in relation to the applicable law, detailed conditions concerning the obligation to report and log out foreigners and the elaborate inspection supervision of the implementation of the new Foreign Act are laid down. This proposal for a law as a newspaper in relation to the applicable law contains provisions on the entry, stay and work of citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families and of third-country nationals who have a permanent stay in another Member State of the European Economic Area. These provisions contain more favourable solutions than third-country nationals and take effect on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. More favourable are the provisions relating to entry, regulation of stay, work, termination and cancellation in a manner such as: citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families can work in the Republic of Croatia, provide services without work and business authorisation has been simplified, cases have been prescribed where citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families retain the right to stay unlike third-country nationals have been reduced by the grounds which can be cancelled or cancelled. But again, I stress, all these measures will take effect after the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. Here, I tried briefly to list the most important institutes of this Law, i.e. the most important amendments and additions, i.e. changes to the existing Foreign Law. I will repeat once again that this proposed law fully harmonizes Croatian legislation with the acquisitions of the European Union and the directives that this issue of foreign nationals in the Republic of Croatia will be regulated in accordance with the acquis of the European Union, that the highest standards have been introduced, that the Republic of Croatia has prescribed much more precise ways in which foreigners can, the way in which foreigners can come to Croatia and seek a temporary or permanent stay so that, by adopting this Act, Croatia will take another step towards bringing the standards of the European Union closer to the treatment of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90251	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Internal Policy, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90252	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 99th session, otherwise I must say that the Committee held a 100th session in the meantime on 15 June and that this was the first committee to hold 100 sessions in the Croatian Parliament. No attempt has been made that we have not had a quorum and I am taking the opportunity to publicly thank all the members of the Committee for the activities in the Committee's work. So, at the 99th session held on 13 June, the Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Foreigners with the Final Proposal for a Law delivered by the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The members of the Committee shall be informed of the reasons and interests for which the adoption of the law in question is proposed by an urgent procedure. The proposer points out that this legislative proposal, in relation to the applicable law, regulates the issues of travel documents and visas, entry and exit and residence of foreigners, the system of measures to comply with the obligation to leave the Republic of Croatia, the conditions for issuing and revoking a work permit and business permit, discusses the conditions regarding the obligation, registration and check-out of foreigners. It also points out that this legislative proposal elaborates on the inspection procedure and extends the scope of the competent authorities to carry out inspection controls. The Committee supported the position of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and does not object to the proposal to adopt this Act by an urgent procedure, given that this Law harmonizes Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union. Furthermore, the Committee believes that this Law sets out more precisely the conditions of entry, movement and residence and the work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Foreign Law in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90253	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Immigration, Chairman of the Committee Mrs Zdenka Babić Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. At the 34th session held on 13 June this year, the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Foreigners with the Final Proposal for a Law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 31 May of this year. The Committee discussed the final draft law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 79. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and as a parent working body. The proposer's representative met the members of the Committee with reasons and interests for which a new Foreign Law was to be proposed. The members of the Committee are familiar with the papers introduced by this Proposal for a Law on Foreigners in relation to the current Act on Foreigners which began to apply from 1 January 2004. One of the newspapers is the establishment of a central body that keeps records of visas issued at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations, which is good. The provisions on the short, temporary and permanent stay of foreigners as well as on the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia are fully in line with the guidelines of the European Union. If there are reasons for the protection of the nation, the requests of foreigners may be rejected. Students are granted half the time they spend studying in Croatia within the period of stay for permanent stay and citizenship status. This Law allows for the fulfilment of the conditions for the approval of permanent stay and of those who, for legitimate reasons, emerge from Croatia for a continuous period of up to 6 months. That's what time counts for. The suspension of the outbreak will be determined by the Minister of the Interior by a regulation. To some categories, service provision on behalf of e.g. the foreign employer and others will not be included in Croatia at the time of stay necessary to meet the conditions for the approval of permanent residence and citizenship status. The same goes for seasonal workers and foreign prisoners. This Law introduces the obligation to know Croatian language and Latin letters for foreigners who want temporary stay, permanent accommodation and work in Croatia. In this connection, there have been doubts about what level of knowledge of Croatian language and Latin scripts should be given to persons who submit requests based on family integration provisions in cases of illiterate and elderly persons. Foreigners can work as well as so far on the basis of work and business permits. It would be more logical if they were approved by the ministry in charge of work, the proposing representative said, and this was advocated by the Committee on Immigration in the adoption of the applicable law in 2003. The result of such a decision and the uncertainty of the legal provision is a double number of business licenses. A delay in the fixing of labour licence quotas, the unwarranted allocation of those quotas by county and the delay in adopting migration policy. The interior ministry is overworked by jobs already in its jurisdiction, and the current Foreigning Law imposes on him jobs that no democratic country does in any democratic country the Ministry of the Interior. For these reasons, the Committee on Immigration called for representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship to take part in the meeting of the Committee in addition to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs. The Proposer believes that issuing work and business permits will change for the better by setting out in this proposal for a law on foreigners that the county offices agree on jobs and work permits. County offices are presumed to have better insight into the needs of the county with foreign workers and the justification of foreign investment. The interior ministry will address the request for residence approval by the person receiving the business permit. The new chapter in the Proposal for a Law on Foreigners, on the rights of EU citizens and third-country nationals who have permanent residence status in the European Union, will only be activated once Croatia is admitted into the European Union. In the following debate, the members specifically referred to Article 2. The final proposal of the Foreign Law suggests that Article 2 is added in paragraph 3 which determines that Croats with foreign citizenship or without citizenship are not considered foreigners but only in terms of the provisions of this law. Such a legal provision was valid until 1 January 2004 i.e. until the entry into force of the applicable Act on Foreigners, which has been adopted by that provision, which was incorporated into the Law on the Employment of Foreigners. The proposed amendment has its own economic justification in addition to its justification under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Croatians who come from emigration, Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring countries generally know the Croatian language, customs and culture and can start their business and work in Croatia without further preparation. Such provisions also have other members of the European Union, different from those of the people of origin. Hungary, for example, is. gave even Hungarian cards to the Hungarians in Croatia so that they could make some of the concessions in Hungary. The members of the board have seen some other irregularities to be clarified, and to implement some amendments to some of the provisions in order for this law to be enforceable. Since the Law on Foreigners really shows a still non-articular overall immigration policy, representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce announced for the coming year the International Conference on Immigration Policy, which is very important for our country on the way to the European Union. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce supports the adoption of the Foreign Law. He commends the paper promoter in a legal and technical way. The applicant accepted the Croatian Chamber of Commerce’s remarks regarding work and business permits. In Article 112(2), the Croatian Chamber of Commerce wants to include its proposal, which is also the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which better defines the business permit. After the debate, the committee proposed to the Croatian Assembly for the adoption of the Foreign Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90255	Thank you very much. Is it on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, the political system, Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic, chairman of the board?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90256	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 83rd session held on 11 June 2007 discussed the proposal for a law on foreigners with the final draft law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 31 May 2007. The Committee discussed the law referred to above on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the debate, the Committee supported the solution set out in the final proposal for a law relating to harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, and in particular the knowledge of Croatian language as conditions for the approval of permanent residence for foreigners. In this connection, the Committee proposed that the possibility be considered to check the knowledge of Croatian language other than higher universities can also be performed by individual schools of foreign languages, as well as to provide for reciprocity if a country in the process of obtaining visas discriminates against Croatian citizens. After the debate, the committee unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Foreign Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90257	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. ... the existing Law on Foreigners so far has shown a number of weaknesses, shown certain legal gaps, ambiguities and the proposing between the two methods whether to make amendments to this law or to go with the whole proposal for a new law has been defined for the creation of a new Foreign Act. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] In any case, we think it's a good methodology because in these often numerous amendments to the existing law, we get lost, and then when we get to the publication of the consolidated text, when we mix up the number of articles, we actually have great difficulties in applying such laws. So, first of all, we think it is good to go into the procedure of adopting a new law that the Croatian Democratic Community club will at first say, to support, because every civilised, regulated state must have a law that regulates the status, movement, stay, permanent stay, work of foreigners who prescribe clear conditions for this and which, of course, regulates all issues related to foreigners. This law regulates all those important questions of definition itself, actually, foreigners who our party is by law. From the issue of travel documents and visas, entry, exit and residence of foreigners, measures to leave the Republic of Croatia, work of foreigners, documents on the proof of identity, residence and residence of foreigners, movements of foreigners in uniforms, entry and stay of nationals of Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families and third-country nationals who have an approved permanent stay in another Member State of the European Economic Area and members of their families. Then the databases, inspection and criminal provisions. So, the law really contains all the issues that are important for the regulation of status and all the issues related to foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. What we consider very important is that this law establishes the Croatian Visa Database, and this database is run by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a central state visa-related body. This is certainly a very important issue where all the information regarding visas will be seen in one central place. Also as an important news club of the Croatian Democratic Community, it points out that this law regulates the issue of foreign stays in a better way, and we see it from the law that we have a short, temporary and permanent stay. And the newspaper within the Institute of Temporary Stay allows foreigners who have four years of approved temporary stay for the purpose of joining the family the approval of temporary stay for no particular purpose. Furthermore, a business permit is also no longer an authorisation of a temporary stay. That's two separate things now. This applies exclusively to the work permit. The proposed law also contains provisions on the temporary stay of foreigners identified as trafficking victims, and the resolution of permanent residence status as newspapers determines the outbreak of foreigners who do not affect the time needed to authorise permanent stay. The categories of foreigners which cannot be granted permanent stay have also been established. A new condition for the approval of a permanent stay is prescribed, which is knowledge of the Croatian language and Latin letter which the Croatian Democratic Community Club also welcomes and we see that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system also pointed out as an important novelty in this law. The abandonment measures of the Republic of Croatia shall stipulate the obligation of the parties to whom the stay has ceased to leave the Republic of Croatia and the system of measures to comply with that obligation. The paper is in relation to the applicable law and to the decision to banish other than courts and the Ministry of the Interior, and the conditions under which a foreigner cannot be expelled are prescribed. So we have one more effective system in case it means that, to come to terms that it is necessary, that a stranger be expelled from our country. In relation to the applicable law, the concept of illegal stay has been established and it is stressed that the burden of proving the legality of the stay is on the stranger himself. As for the work of foreigners, the law contains provisions guaranteeing foreigners the same level of rights as Croatian citizens. Therefore, as a newspaper, the provisions on volunteer work have been laid down and categories of foreigners that can be granted work permits outside the annual quota have been extended. Time limit for all categories of foreigners who can work without a work permit or a business permit leveled. The definition of key transactions in the company, branch or representative of a foreign company is also given. The conditions for issuing and revoking work and business permits have been specified, and categories of persons who can be issued with the emphasis that business must have an impact on increasing economic activity in the Republic of Croatia are also prescribed. This proposal for a law as a newspaper in relation to the current law contains provisions on the entry, stay and work of citizens of the European Economic Area and members of their families and of third-country nationals who have an approved permanent stay in another Member State of the European Economic Area. These provisions contain more favourable solutions than third-country nationals and enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The proposal for a law is also more specifically elaborated on the inspection procedure and extends the scope of the competent authorities to carry out inspection controls by being the central coordination body in the inspection supervision of the State Inspectorate. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law and I must say that the law is also well done in a nomotechnical sense. The provisions are rather precise and clear so that there should be no doubt in their application that I must admit that it is known in these new laws that we are harmonising our legislation with the acquis of the European Union that very often we have problems with the text of these directives that we are introducing in our legislation so that very often this language from these directives is difficult for us to translate into our language and therefore we have solutions that are actually very often inaccurate and that are unclear. That's not the case with this law. This law is very precise and very clear. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90259	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Sima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90260	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In this session of the Assembly other than this Proposal for a Law on Foreigners, we will discuss another important law in the next point, and this is the Law on Asylum. And we also have a migration strategy on the agenda. I think it was more directed that we discussed the migration strategy first and only these laws. But how often we go wrong, then this case doesn't surprise me. Because a key question is raised to the extent to which these two laws should be measured, since the area of problems, it stems from the migration strategy and to what extent the migration strategy defines the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the matters of immigration, emigration and in the issues of general policy towards foreigners, but all together in the context of Croatia's recent entry, I hope, in the European Union. It should be borne in mind that these issues are key issues in the European Union countries as well. Policy towards immigrants, foreigners, their integration and the level of their rights is essentially determined by the policies of these countries as a whole. More and more often in the European Union, elections are received or lost in the definition of attitude towards foreigners. Let's just remember now these choices in France. If the state thinks it has high civilization standards, it's open and democratic. And respect human rights. Then the main starting point in politics towards foreigners must in any case be their equality with the domicile population in all segments of life. If it's about traveling, schooling, working or something. Likewise, all foreigners regardless of race, religion, nationality and citizenship should be equal before the Croatian law. Why am I pointing this out? Because regardless of legal solutions, it often happens in practice that we have different standards for, say, foreigners from the West. Let's say for one Icelandic or, say, a foreigner from the east. Let's say from Turkey. In fact, from the point of view of human rights, and I mean legal and normative solutions, in fact, all these people should be the same. And further, in general, the question to what extent this law meets some kind of let me say the expectations and the necessary, the necessary standards. I think the law represents a good potential, but it still needs a lot of work. Or that it should be legally balanced. I'll try and explain why I think that. If you read the law carefully, you will see that the law is literally introduced, you are careful to be literally translated and introduced many of the provisions of some twenty, slightly smaller directives, decisions and regulations, recommendations from the Council and the European Union. So I think it would be necessary to work on the interpretation of the law itself. Because of the importance of the matter dealing with this law, because of the need for its grooming, so if you want and because of its size, because the law is large enough, we suggest on behalf of the SDP Club that this law goes to another reading. No matter what he's wearing P.Z.E. Because if it comes into force at the beginning of next year we could, in fact, already at this session, have, say, 15 days apart today had a principle debate and then use this time to prepare for the amendments and these amendments. Since I am not sure of the established practice that the Proposer will accept our proposal, I will not stick to the principle of remarks, but I would try to point out some of the specific shortcomings that I think this law contains, especially from the aspect of human rights that the law should either be complemented or completed. The issuing of travel documents and visas through the whole procedure as well as the possibility of objecting is importantly determined both the status and rights of foreigners. In the proposal of the Foreign Law, there is room for this problem to be better and clearer. For example, for a child under 14 years of age, it is regulated that the issuing of passports can be done by enrolment in parental travel, leaving out the possibility that this can also apply to a legal representative so that a child without a parent can have equal rights to freedom of movement. So let's say a child who doesn't have parents, who has a legal guardian, can't get travel papers. In the case of visas, or documents necessary to obtain a visa, the purpose and conditions of its stay should be governed by what kind of document it is necessary to obtain. Because it seems to me whether it's intended by a sublegal act or not, because often in fact in that request and... the request for a visa for non-listed documents shall be rejected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also raises the question whether non-transmission of visas should be made public by oral means. I personally believe it would be important for the issue of visas to be refused to a foreigner in such a way as to be served in writing, hence written refusals and to allow the statement of objection to the Minister or, respectively, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Because if a unique base is already being created, where we're going to have all the visas for, accepted, rejected, then I don't think that would technically be any problem, and to de facto manifest one level of foreign rights, or even those we refuse to visa. The possibility of filing an appeal should allow foreigners who are denied and entered the border in any diplomatic mission, or consular offices of the Republic of Croatia, so that a foreigner does not have to return to his country to file an appeal. Because if the time limit is eight days, then actually that deadline until he comes back and gets it. On the other hand, better insight would also be given to the work of diplomatic or consular representations themselves. I also need to introduce exceptions to the ban on helping foreigners in the illegal stay in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, there are frequent situations that, due to the failure of citizens to banish foreigners from the country, they remain illegally and live in extremely difficult conditions. Police and other parts of the state government are aware of the existence of such cases but because of the current or permanent inability to banish countries of origin do nothing but occasionally detain those persons on a period permitted by law. In these cases, it is necessary to release the offence and other responsibilities of citizens who for humanitarian reasons assist them. Article 56, which defines family members who can be granted temporary stay for family reunion purposes, lists persons living in extramarital communities according to Croatian legislation. In my opinion, then, it is also necessary to add explicit members of the same-sex community because in Croatian laws, the Law on Same-Sex Communities prohibits any discrimination against heterosexual extramarital communities, or any discrimination based on facts and lives in that community. I hope this was just a feller or a failure. A clearer definition should also be made of the procedure to determine whether the marriage is beneficial. Because it states therefore that if a marriage is made for benefit, such a person will not be able to obtain papers, etc., etc. Because in my view, we should also determine what body it is that will determine whether a marriage is for the benefit or for the benefit of it. Because it's a very slippery area. The provisions defining the duration of the temporary stay should set clearer distinctions. It is unclear why a temporary stay for the purpose of studying shall be calculated only half of the time spent on a temporary stay for the purpose of studying in the procedure of obtaining a permanent stay. So someone who studies for five or six years, say or four, is only recognised for two years. I really don't get it, because this provision seems to be a discriminatory provision. I don't know. Probably the Proposer has some kind of explanation. So we think that putting foreigners on a study in a more unfavourable position than those who, for example, work outsiders have no legitimate reason, right? So this provision makes my law unnecessarily restrictive. Consideration should be given to removing restrictions on the freedom of association, enabling full freedom of association and association of foreigners to stay in order to integrate them into the life of the domicile community as easily and quickly as possible. In Article 89 it is necessary to delete paragraph 2 which allows the exile of foreigners from the country by means of an enforcement procedure, without carrying out an infringement procedure. The Constitution guarantees foreigners the same right to a fair procedure as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is violated by this provision of the law and can lead to the abuse of police power in making such decisions. I don't think this needs to be explained in more detail. It is also necessary to introduce an appeal for a solution to banishing foreigners from the country. Because the possibility of disputing such a solution in the administrative dispute does not, in fact, constitute an effective legal remedy, since the complaint does not delay the execution of the solution to the Administrative Court. In Article 102, paragraph 2 which regulates the accommodation of asylum prosecutors or subsidiary protection in the centre should be deleted. This provision is directly discriminatory to persons who have sought asylum in the centre, not at the police station, and there is no reasonable reason for that. Such a provision violates EU directives which regulate the minimum standard of acceptance and procedures in the asylum procedure, which allow applicants to stay in the intended institutions and which cannot limit freedom of movement on the same grounds, as can be the case for persons who, for reasons of illegal border crossing or other reasons, stay at a reception centre for foreigners. Such a provision is contrary to the provisions of the Asylum Act. So either you have to amend the Asylum Act or you have to change something in the Foreign Law. These are only, therefore, the observations we have on this Bill proposal and we hope that the Proposer will consider them and at least a part of them will be accepted in order to avoid, therefore, any objections in the direction and in terms which might thus be restrictive of this law. Once again, I propose to the promoter to consider the possibility that we still have until the summer break, because of the importance and scope of the law to go in two readings. As far as the SDP club is concerned, we will actually see to what extent the Proposer will accept, I believe it will be enough already I've seen some amendments on the benches, that there will be a lot of amendments and actually I will say the law has a lot of potential and it would be a shame not to take advantage of that potential. So on behalf of the club, I believe that the proposer will adopt a part of the amendment and there will be no reason for SDP not to give support to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90261	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is the second law reading. I'm pleased to admit that it's not technically and meaningfully well-written. Well written, it covers all aspects of the problem of treating foreign citizens in Croatia and covers them in most cases in a satisfactory way. Why the new law? First of all, in order to put the whole of that change and supplemental forest in one place to take place in some sensitive situation in which a procedure with a stranger should be conducted, it can make it simpler and more efficient and secondly to comply with the mass of the European Community directive, which is written here in the proposal for a whole list on the whole page of which the European Community Directive. But why this law in the first place? Why does the state prescribe the stay and functioning of foreigners on its territory? It is evident that the state as one round political primarily community, protects itself from some who have different interests, so from foreigners. These interests could be collapsing with the interest of the state. Of course it may sound xenophobic, but it's a simple fact. That's true. That's why we treat some people as our citizens, members of this community who exercise their full rights here, and some don't. Some of them are strangers, somewhere else some of them have exercised their rights, and here they are exercising their human rights. This treatment of foreign citizens in a different way than their own is, of course, part of the sovereignty of the state. On the other hand, there are human rights that are general, generally accepted and described in numerous declarations that the European Union has signed by the United Nations to which Croatia has joined and which, by this law, are in a good respect. So I initially said that this law corresponds to the concept of good law as the Croatian People's Party Club sees it. The stay of foreigners is classified in three categories: short-term, temporary and permanent. We have some objections to organizational, namely the part about short-term stay. The law says in one place that a stranger can stay in the country for three months and then for a period of six months he can no longer. We could get into a situation where a German pensioner comes in nice in the summer here, spends three months at sea and then comes up with a plan to spend Christmas here. This isn't gonna make it. We should simply re-analyze those provisions and see that we do not put ourselves in such a situation that I believe neither the legislator nor any of us really want to work. All that matters is whether a citizen of the European Union or some countries outside the European Union, we certainly do not want to create this situation so that a man spends three months here and then that within six months he cannot appear at the border of the state. I know what was meant here, it was thought of workers especially seasonally coming, going under various conditions, but this aspect should also be kept in mind. Another type of stay, after the duration of another species, is a temporary stay. It is determined by the request of a stranger for a year. A while ago, I personally proposed amendments to the Foreign Law where I proposed that after a year of stay and work in Croatia, the stranger should take an exam from the Croatian language and know the Latin letter. I am pleased that the legislator introduced this as an institute in law, but in the place where it is said about the permanent stay of foreigners, so after four years spent a temporary year per year in Croatia, after that four years if the stranger wants to get a permanent stay in the fifth year he has to pass the exam from Croatian language. I think it's essentially unnecessary for a man, because for four years he's been here and doing anything, that language is most likely, and he knows enough that he doesn't need the exam in particular. For this reason, I have made an amendment to Article 49 where I propose that this exam be subject to the same conditions as the applicant describes it, so at a higher education institution or some other institution which the ministry of power, be laid down after one year of temporary stay and work in the Republic of Croatia. 'Cause look, after a year, a man probably decided that he's ready here, let's say he spends a part of his working life, sort of serving bread, something to do with his career, and at least he's correct to the state that allows him to know the language of that country. That he knows the way he's supposed to communicate. We talk a lot here about the sovereignty of our country, a lot of time it's been described as a flag-wrestling on romance and so on. Obviously, this kind of sovereignty no longer works, but some other kinds of sovereignty work, from economic sovereignty, the preservation of infrastructure and natural resources, to cultural sovereignty, and this is part of cultural sovereignty. Croatian is a small language, whether it sounds paranoid, but it is in danger. Not only do we exchange computers with a computer, it's the least of it. He is in danger synthetically, he is in danger of introducing the structures of other languages into Croatian and thinking then to say so layishly, thinking about it and in the concepts of that foreign language. This happens especially in large international companies operating in the Republic of Croatia and in which the foreign language from which the company comes is actually the official language. In such a provision that after one year a stranger must pass the exam from the Croatian communication language and knowledge of the Latin letter, at least part of the situation would be tempered and allow the Croatian language to become lingua in these companies... It becomes a language spoken. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The article 64 describes seasonal work, and nowhere is it actually defined what it means in season, during which season, at what season. I think it would be a good idea to think about it and define it, so it doesn't just happen to abuse the law. It is stated, among other things, that since this 4 year prior mandatory temporary stay, one half of students are accounted for, in Article 79, for. So, a student who spent 4 years in Croatia studying, and to note that he could not study in Croatia must not have passed the Croatian language before, could not have written in college without it, it counts for two years, and someone who, after two years of staying here, and someone who worked as a construction worker counts for 4. Let's be pragmatic. It's a small chance that this student will want to stay here. He came to study here to work in his country I suppose. Most often this is about students from the poorer east and those who return there are getting significant positions and prominent and in the proportions of his country from which very well-paid positions come. It's a small chance they'll want it here. But if he wants to stay here, so I think that Croatia is in more interest to have such a stranger stay here than a stranger who is, say, unqualified. Thank God we've got a lot of our own. The work of foreigners is described in a special chapter in Article 115, and rights are well described. The rights are well described, there are all the fundamental rights from the work that every Croatian citizen should have, unfortunately not every Croatian citizen does. But if we start from strangers, we might get to our own, so maybe those rights come true someday for Croatian states. For the first time, the quota of the permit appears in this law in this way, and I think it is good that the quota is linked to the entire migration policy of the Croatian government and the Croatian state. So that the state clearly and loudly says what it really wants and in which direction it moves. Of course, it will all be completely inconclusive until Croatia has a clearly drawn development strategy, and according to this development strategy, it supports certain branches and certain parts and economies and social activities so that a meaningful migration policy can be derived from it, and then the quotas that we really need, which we need and in what extent we can absorb into our system the functioning of the entire state so that such a project of some imagined development can be achieved. One more thing I don't know why nobody mentions. It seems to me, at least I've never, I've never been in any paper that came here to Parliament to see the European Economic Area. It's a new shortcut for me. I've seen it in the press. I've never seen it in the acts of this House. Is this now the official concept that this Parliament is serving and what is meant by that term, which actually falls under that term? Whether we are an EEP now, not an EEP, whether we will be an EEP when we join the EU or not. I think we should simply clarify the concept if we are to use it in future legal proposals to know what we are serving. All in all, the Croatian People's Party club believes this law is beneficial and good. If you accept the suggestions of some of the other amendments we've seen on the benches, I think that law can be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90263	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90264	Honorable Vice President, esteemed Secretary of State, esteemed Mr. Representatives. Here is Article 1. It is said that this Law prescribes the conditions of entry, movement, residence and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. In the sense of this Act, a foreigner is considered a person who is not a Croatian citizen, etc. That's the point. A stranger can also work in the Republic of Croatia, someone will say that it is precisely regulated by this Law, which is true, through work permits, it is true. On the other hand, Croatia has 280 thousand unemployed, we will all agree that this is one huge problem, although if we reduced that figure by 20 or 30% nothing dramatic would happen as nothing dramatic happened in 2001 or 2002 when that figure of 410 thousand unemployed de facto was reduced overnight to 310 thousand. Interestingly, no one objected, no one objected to it. It wouldn't happen now, even though I don't advocate this way of treating unemployment. Here we are today in our yearbooks of the Croatian Employment Institute, and on the other hand, the implementation of the 2006 budget from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and is now mentioned by administrative sources of unemployment rates of 16% as an average, the smallest in Istria County 7%, the City of Zagreb 7.2%, the Primorje-goranska 12%, I do not know the Varazdinska 12.9, the highest in Vukovar-Srijemska 30.6%, while we see on the other hand that the Government is at the polling rate of unemployment of 11.2%, while according to the Institute this same survey unemployment rate is 11.7%. In this discussion, I want to put emphasis on these work permits, that is, on making it possible for workers and foreigners. Yesterday I was in the Chamber of the County of Istrians. People were bringing up a whole series of their problems. And what's their biggest problem? They're work permits and it's clearly inadequate vocational education, I don't know about shipbuilders, this, this, that, the engineer, the tool maker and the like. I also claim that the City of Zagreb is slowly in situations where we do not have the workforce. Istria has almost found itself in a situation where there is no labour force. We have 35,000 more voters today than in '95, more jobs than in '90, less unemployment than in '90, an economic growth of 11% a year, but a lot can be questioned precisely because of the inability to serve these structures economically with an adequate workforce. One conclusion is that these are the laws that allow the necessary labour to arrive. This is what I am holding at the moment with the Croatian problem number one corruption, probably the biggest Croatian problem. It means demographics, that kind of work needs. It is fortunate that we have Bosnia and Herzegovina, that they are far more underdeveloped than Croatia and that it will be our working tank. Let's let it mean that people come, work for themselves clearly, for us, that their stay is monitored as already prescribed by the law. This Regulation shall enter A travel document for a stranger shall not be issued to a stranger against whom criminal or criminal proceedings are conducted, who is sentenced to a sentence of imprisonment or fine until the sentence has endured, who has not regulated his or her consent to a property and legal obligation for which there is an executive order if this requires grounds for the protection of the public order, national security, public health, etc. That's absolutely logical. But in Croatia well, the Hague indictees entered not as foreigners but as citizens but on another occasion. Here we come up with some more essential questions that have been mentioned lately. Some of us since '95. We argued about the right to vote what and how we find it, how to regulate it, or that the diaspora should not be allowed. but I said clearly, citizenship is also the right to vote, there are both material rights and labour rights and I don't know, and finally the issue of demographic survival, I would say these countries but also Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In one word, it is a question of whether in 20 years, Bosnia and Herzegovina will, in addition to declaratively, still be settled in one of the more dominant parts and members of the Croatian people. It's an extremely serious question, although there's no doubt about it. I personally believe that representatives of the Croat people in Bosnia and Herzegovina should not vote here in the 11th constituency. As regards visas, the article is paragraph 15, paragraph 1, 2. The visa is an authorisation for entry, stay or transit through the territory of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of visas, a stranger cannot work clearly in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. 16. Types of visa are those airline-transport visas, transit visas, travel visas. But I'd say the essence of the law means staying strangers, and it's permanent or temporary, and it's expressed in Articles 51, 52. The purposes for which temporary stay can be approved are: family integration, work, education, study, scientific research, humanitarian reasons. This Regulation shall enter A foreigner will be granted a temporary stay if he has means of maintenance, has a secure residence, we have health insurance, there are no obstacles from some previous articles and if he justified the purpose of temporary stay. In Article 64, a party who has been granted a temporary stay for the purpose of working for the purpose of seasonal work may stay in the Republic of Croatia for a maximum period of six months for a period of time of one year and must stay for at least six months outside the Republic of Croatia before being allowed to enter and stay for the purpose of work again. This is where we come clearly to this seasonal work, the economy is looking for it, not only did I say the Primorian County of Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County, Dalmatia, but I have a more and more impression of Slavonia. It is clear that it should also be flexible for citizens, citizens of other nationalities of the ex-Yugoslavia. I am not racist, but this area must in some ways be the working pool of the Republic of Croatia. Provided that clearly, we don't block the development of the affairs we're investigating today, Maestro. With full clear support for this action, with a desire to access software and I would say that even today it is not in politics but in the economy and unfortunately underground. And if it doesn't break, not only will it capture our country financially, but tomorrow it will capture the country politically. And that's the point. And clearly, politics can't be amnesty. This is if it goes to the end, really an opportunity for Croatia to be emancipated for the second time, free of control, supervision, financial institutions and political words. And whether we go to the end or whether the government goes to the end or the institution, that's what we'll see. In particular, the victims should be treated. These are articles 71, 72. A stranger identified as a victim has the right to decide within 30 days on his participation in the assistance and protection programme. The victim who has been granted a temporary stay has the right to secure accommodation, health care, financial assistance, work, education. Often citizens from these areas were also victims of a system that has ruled here and clearly that in one such way should also be treated to foreigners who come from those positions to the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter A foreigner on a permanent stay, and this is actually the point of having the right to re-work and self-employment training, social care, pension, health insurance rights, children's allowance, tax relief, access to the market for goods, services, freedom of association and the like. I don't think the article is correct. I just don't see the reason why you'd have tax breaks unless the institutions of that double taxation or the avoidance of double taxation are regulated. I don't think anyone should be put in a more privileged position than other Croatian citizens. It is equally important to banish, but I am going back to the essence, which is the work of the foreigners again in Articles 114 and 2 that a stranger can work in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a working or business permit if this law does not clearly specify otherwise. The foreigner referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may not start working before being granted a temporary stay unless otherwise specified by this law. A business permit, Article 132, may also be issued to the founder of their own company who have registered business activity in the Republic of Croatia. But the point is precisely on this "can be done", and we read according to statistics how many thousands, for example, of foreign companies operate in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Then it can be issued to craftsmen who have registered business activity in Croatia. Persons engaged in free professions, provision of services on behalf of and foreign employer and so on and so forth. Once again why did I take part in this debate? Just to highlight the problem of labour in a whole series of parts of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not running away from one of the worst problems, which at this time is 270, 280 thousand unemployed. And to facilitate the movement, we need the workforce. Without it, it is difficult to survive a whole series of Croatian branches. It's simply a question of the existence of development in the whole I would dare tell the nations. We allow workers to arrive at those branches where at this time the interest in doing business does not show citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In industry, where there are no workers, I don't know, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Macedonia, Slovakia in tourism, agriculture, construction from Bosnia and Herzegovina. In shipbuilding from the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Moldova and so on. So these are some of the branches in Croatia that are crying for labour. That may sound paradoxical at first sight, but that's true, too. If we help others in this way, we will help ourselves indirectly, and all of us will benefit from it. I think the law is correct. There's no need to cause problems. If it goes to another reading of "high and high" some remarks by the SDP Club why not? But I still think that the law is in principle correct and that it should be started as soon as possible for foreigners, clearly, for people who are ready and willing to work and so on, to earn, to allow part of their working potential to be dedicated and to do jobs in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90265	Thank you. We have two corrections. First is Ms. Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90266	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, colleague Cain. The foreign law regulates temporary and permanent stay, business and work permits, entry visas, visas issued and other. But he doesn't regulate questions from the House of Elections. That would be yours if the right to vote had Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. ... I don't disrespect either one or the other. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90267	Thank you. Correction Mr. Agent Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90268	A colleague of Cain's said about this law that there are several thousand who are in Croatia which are on business terms on work permit. In fact, it is about 900 people a year with work permits and as many as 3,000 and 900 with special permits using a hole in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement so that only managers can stay in Croatia temporarily. So we have managers to prepare meals and drinks or chef's kitchen, guests' reception managers, and a whole bunch of such managers. And when another 12,000 is added by estimates of black employees during the season, that figure goes up to 15 grand, and that's exactly how many permanent, legally employed seasons. Therefore, Croatia must pay close attention to how the Foreign Law writes and how it issues business and work permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90269	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90270	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Associates, colleagues and colleagues. This is exactly the kind of single solution of the Foreign Law that we can say that indeed the Republic of Croatia has equated all those who wish to participate in the Republic of Croatia in any way, starting with learning, studying, later from work, and that the most important areas are being arranged, starting with travel documents and visas, entering, exiting and staying strangers. Also, measures to leave the Republic of Croatia, and it seems to me that one of the most important is the work of the foreigners, because already already in certain segments of the Croatian economy, the deficit of workers is indicated. For example, in construction, but also in the shipyard, it is finally time for someone to come to work with us, because the standard is lower, because they will gain knowledge here, earn profits and return to their country with that profit. So far, many of our emigrants have gone to Germany and far away Australia and Canada to earn and earn money and invest in Croatia. And this confirms that we really have an excellent and expansionist approach in the economy because it proves exactly the deficit of some professions. The residence and residence of foreigners, a document on proof of identity and, of course, what bothers us as a tourist country really in what way to control the inspection of the state, the State Inspectorate who deals with all the renting? Can renter have any of the scheduled work permits and residences? Is that how it damages the state budget or not? And finally, by introducing Croatia, Croatia's Croatian visa database that can be really controlled from one place by a central state body that will at any moment know what visas have been issued, how many visas people have and how they have been made. Indeed, this precise law can say that we have come to our own regarding both Croatian and Latin letters because one condition will be to know exactly Croatian and Latin letters which no one can forbid and no European standard can restrict our right. Therefore, it is also important that measures be taken to leave the Republic of Croatia in the head which prescribes the obligation of a foreigner to stop staying in Croatia. One of these bodies is a court, and the other is the Ministry of the Interior in order to truly be humane and able to fully comply with this law. Of course the newspaper among other things that the applicable law can also state the concept, and establish the concept of illegal residence. And it was pointed out that it was precisely the burden of proving the legality of staying on a foreigner, otherwise there was always a burden of proof on the state body. Of course, no limit can be allowed to determine what these are, which guarantees foreigners the same level of rights and which they have as well as Croatian citizens. Of course, it is very precise to state the issue and cancellation of work and business permits, and according to this are the categories of persons who can be granted a business licence with the emphasis that business must have on what is most important to us, and these are economic activities in the Republic of Croatia. Economic, European economic space is a very important category that we really need to make full use of. I would also like to point out that this is one of a series of laws where a more precise inspection procedure is being developed and a circle of the competent authorities for the exercise of inspection supervision is being extended, with the central coordination body being provided for by the State Inspectorate. For in vain are all good laws, legal provisions if we do not have relevant effective inspections that they will indeed carry out. I believe that this law will be useful in each segment, because the provisions are also important for those provisions in which the foreigner will not be granted entry into the Republic of Croatia, because among other things it is mentioned that, if there is a reasonable doubt that his stay will not be used precisely for the intended purpose for which he points out that he would like to come, live and work in the Republic of Croatia. Believing that this will be a useful regulation, and the law in particular highlights yet another flaw, which has so far existed when it comes to a purpose that can be approved by a temporary stay, and in Article 51 it is taxing and listing. The first is family integration, work, secondary education and study, scientific research, humanitarian reasons, which, of course, would have to be determined more precisely. Finally, it is important to point out that it is the police administration that decides to issue a temporary stay permit, i.e. a police station towards the place of residence, i.e. the intended stay of a stranger. Because it's exactly the kind of police administration and police station that knows the most and the best reasons why, what are the opportunities and whether it's useful for a temporary stay for a place, city or municipality. I believe that despite always thinking why not another reading and another reading, so I don't know what, I believe that nomotechnical provisions are complex modern, useful, and the debate will also show whether we are ready to accept it immediately as it is proposed. I believe he will. Because the great effort that has been put into this law has resulted in the very solutions that we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90271	Thank you. At 11.02, it'll be 10 minutes time to sign up. It's Mr. Representative Slaven Letica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90272	I would like to join Mr. Vice President in complimenting the lawmakers. With this law, Croatia becomes what it has traditionally been, an open society. In traditional societies, the notion of a stranger is narrowly defined locally. Me or my dear and learned colleague, Bebić, in our early childhood, experienced strangers from Obuzen, and I from neighbouring Tucepi, Makarska or Igrana, were our neighbors. But there we didn't hang out with them too much, it was hard to marry them so they wouldn't get the anger of the local community. Today, Croatian society is an open European society, and it is a good thing that an Foreign Law has been set up. My emotional connection to the notion of a stranger is related to a positive experience. In fact, as a child, I was tied to Camus' novel "The Stranger" because it was short, it could be read on several occasions in a few days. Generally Croatians are foreigners in foreign countries and it is good to define their own attitude towards foreigners to be friendly on the one hand, on the other hand, to be very wisely defined. These days, it is the end of preparations for a major national project on the "Encyclopaedia of Croatian Last Names", which is done by the Croatian genealogy centre. At the head of the project is Academyman Vlatko Pavletić. And it's very interesting to see what this "Encyclopaedia of Croatian Last Names" will look like. For example, most people living in Zagreb today used to be strangers. They moved mostly not from Herzegovina but from Bosnia. In Zagreb, only 8% of the old Zagrebans are in that retrograde sense of the word I was talking about at the beginning. It will be interesting to see from this encyclopaedia of Croatian last names that there are a huge number of last names in Croatia that we know because they have been in charge of Croatian science, culture, art and extinction. In this encyclopaedia of Croatian last names there are very few two or three living Shenoe, several Haulikas, barely who if he has Strossmayer, Shulek, Bulgako, Jerosimov, Lisinski, even Matoš. And that's where we come back to the point of this friendly relationship with strangers. At first reading, I was saying that foreigners enriched Croatian culture, and more so in a very short time, as soon as they had mastered Croatian language and Croatian culture, Croatian patriots, even Croatian nationalists. On the contrary, we have ethnic Croats who are Croats, hate Croatians, hate Croatia, and that is one big paradox. And in this sense, I am very pleased that as one, let's say a sympathetic discriminatory principle for the acquisition of a permanent residence and potential citizenship are cited and knowledge of Croatian. That's what my colleague Nikola was talking about. Here you need to be precise, which means you know Croatian. I shouldn't have talked about it, and I was talking about it on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, that too many of these people are being asked. That we're looking for basic communication. It would be nice for me to introduce both knowledge and one skill to acquire a permanent stay. That would certainly be from the point of view of the image of a mekingo or a painting if people were to be asked to tie a tie. So this would prove that in Croatia, Croatian citizenship can only have a foreigner who can tie a tie and it would be good to know the Croatian anthem. You see, my son was in high school in Texas. Every Monday starts in every grade of elementary and high school swearing to the homeland. Children look at the American flag, or say the words of love and oaths to the homeland. If this was introduced in Croatia, there would be an all-out rebellion called the so-called "Charlie". A human rights organization and it's one of the greatest paradoxes. Like the biggest paradox, I was with great joy two or three days ago at the Dinah Stadium where the Thompson concert was. So that's where people are afraid to go, you know. Our people think there's still communism, there's a verbal delinquent, there's allowed music, there's something where it's needed or where it doesn't have to go. In that sense, I think the solutions to this law are very good. As far as these names of foreigners are concerned, they're always more charming than some future name of Croatia, where you have wolves, you run around with masculine beards, so you have buttocks, cunts, etc. So these sides of the last name are very cute. And when today-to-morrow these strangers who came here in the roots of our people, they will preserve the wrestling they want the heads of those I spoke of. As far as some technical matters are concerned, I think it was a proposal from the Committee on Immigration, that instead of the exclusive jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior, which, especially today, has much better things to do than deal with issues of issuing such certificates, that in the case of work and business permits, powers may be given to resolutional ministries. And I'm finally going to end up with something I was talking about on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. In view of the creation of civic self-awareness, dignity and pride, one discriminatory provision should be laid down in the law in relation to countries which apply discriminatory visa arrangements to Croatia and Croatians and Croatian citizens. Our esteemed vice president, Luka Bebic, wanted to go to Canada. And 24 hours before his entry into Canada, he still didn't know if that proud Canadian consular service would give him a visa or not. Our people who go to some countries, and above all that applies to Canada, Australia and some other countries, must lay and fill in humiliating questionnaires. They either have to tell the truth so they don't get a visa for example to defend their own country or they have to lie to get visas in those countries. I think the minimum minimum minimum to predict in this law is the possibility that citizens who do not respect Croatians and Croatians and even the elemental patriotic values that we have the principle of reciprocity. That's what I was talking about, and I'd like to pray that, with the consultation, I don't know who, the European Commission is going with the amendments and that such a reciprocal provision is being introduced into this legislation so that it doesn't happen, for example, to a colleague, Andrija Hebrang, to be rejected on several occasions and cannot be a man who was a defence minister, who was our distinguished colleague, a fantastic doctor, to go to Australia because he was a defence minister and defended his own people and his own country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90273	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is Mr. Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This inspired discussion of my dear colleague and Professor Slaven Letica has moved me to a replica. When you mentioned that your son was in America and now he's there, and he listens regularly before teaching so American anthem, I'd like to answer that, thank God and my niece was but not in America but in Canada for a year. And every morning, every morning, they had a little bit of a mildly spoken lineup and listening to an anthem and greetings to the Anthem of Canada. Thus, on the entire American continent, this relationship to the homeland and patriotism as such is developing. I don't think it would be too bad to think about how in a certain way we can actually introduce more respect for both country and anthem in children, even if it were one of the ways. It may also be an occasion to say that the importance of Croatian emigration is important. That dear niece of mine was with our people, so they were there for free, where she had a home for a year. So imagine if we Croats were able to develop a relationship between Croats in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example, with Croats in the world and to develop a network, exchange our children so that our children go out, stay out for a year, return here, learn English, see Croatian man in the world and the world outside, and also that children of Croatian emigrants come here and actually learn language in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, so to our people. That was very important and finally when you said about this Thompson concert that people were afraid of. I don't agree with that crumb. Let me have it with you and make sure you don't get 50,000 people there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90275	Answer, Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90276	A colleague, Bagarić, is right that in a globalised world there is a human need for belonging, belongings to a town where you live, belonging to a local community, and belonging to your own country, people, nations and, in this sense, patriotism and patriotism experience a great Renaissance in the world, primarily in North America and other countries, and in the European Union people misjudge, so that such a guilty assumption exists in Croatia that being a European does not mean being a Croat. So in the modern world, there can be more things at the same time. It may be in your case a man from Herzegovina, a Herzegovic, may be a Croat, may be a European, may be a citizen of the world and may be a member of the medical tribe. So we need to get used to such multiple identities and not allow people who think globalisation is destroying the need for people to belong to themselves and their own something is outdated, retrograde and radicalistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90277	Another replica, Mr. Representative Franjo Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to rephrase to my distinguished representative, Slaven Letica, when he spoke about the situation in some states, so he mentioned America. I was present in America in a city near Boston Newton, so on Sunday morning I got up a little early in the city, so I saw in one yard one maybe four generations of families standing, playing the American anthem and the oldest member of the family raising that flag. It's a patriot. And here we are, out of patriotism, we have called patriotism to defend their communism. A very good song that talks about everything, and you know it, we were at a concert together, and I even drove you from Maxime to the city. I didn't notice that it was a Ustasha rally, which is what the media insists on telling us today that we were MPs at some Ustasha rally on the 17th of this month. You're a professor, I don't know what we've done wrong, and we're not afraid, but those who want us to be afraid try. I also spoke to the officers at the stadium. Well, they've never had less to do in their lives with more people, 55,000 people they haven't had to deal with, and they keep trying to figure out that it was some kind of evil. I, as a parliamentary representative chosen by this people categorically in this House of Commons, claim that I was not at any Ustasha rally in 1706 but was at a concert of my longtime friend and very good musician. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90279	The Foreign Law is on the agenda. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90280	Well, perhaps emotions have taken place, but in the right direction, fellow Arabovic. Sura is true that he took me with Minister Primorac who is my student and that such an experience was there in Croatia. It is a little poorer Croatia, slightly more troubled Croatia, perhaps a little old-fashioned Croatia, but it is still a magical Croatia. As far as national consensus is concerned. Look, you have one situation where this government is headed by the model Prime Minister Dr. Eva Sanader went to fight corruption. You can't fight corruption without a national consensus. As soon as he tried to do something about this tall and unhappy man, he immediately went astray in this sense without consensus and when it comes to patriotism and when it comes to dealing with the great evils, we will not move anywhere, so I would appeal if you want to fight corruption, organised crime and if you want to fight for Croatianism and for congratulations and honesty, there must always be an interparty general consensus. Without it, it is impossible to move two metres, and in that sense I am glad that I was taken by Mr. Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90281	Thank you. 701, P.Z.E. 701. Final proposal of the Foreign Law if you happen to forget what law is on the agenda. Zdenka Babić Petričević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. You won't be angry today, Mr. Vice President, two sentences just before this law. Today, on the world day of refugees, we are talking about the Law on Foreigners and the Law on Asylum which is very important to me, and every Croat when it comes to the Law on Foreigners and the Law on Asylum must also talk with one responsibility, especially if you want to have emotions in view of our many years of history. There is no country in this world from the fire country from the north to the south where there are no Croats or was a political asylumist or was granted a residence permit temporarily or was allowed to stay at all times, so I am pleased that we in the Croatian Assembly in the sovereign state also talk about the Foreign Law. This proposal regulates the following areas of travel documents, visas, entry, exit and stay of foreigners, measures to leave the Republic of Croatia, work of foreigners, documents on proof of identity, residence and residence of foreigners, movements of foreigners in uniforms, entry and stay and work of Member States of the European Economic Area, databases, inspection, criminal provisions. It is certain that this is prescribed by the laws and by Croatia as a sovereign state of the sea and doing so first according to the interest of national interest, and then according to the European Union's path, and I repeat once again a country that has a whole world of generations, not only the first and second if we count in the European Union but a third generation is created, and almost 50% of Croatian populations live outside the country and 50% in the country. And now I'm going to look back on Article 2, which I was already talking about on behalf of the board, the proposed law. I hope this Article 2 where the Committee, the 4 MPs of the 11th Election Unit have submitted an amendment to you. Promote him well that he is in the spirit of the national interest of the Republic of Croatia and does not break with either the European or the world conventions. It means that an addendum is proposed, Article 2(3), which determines that Croats with foreign citizenship, or without citizenship, are not considered foreigners in terms of the provisions of this law. I repeat once again, in terms of the provisions of this law and not of what it is, it has already been alluded through this law to the right to vote. It is known who has the right to vote in the Republic of Croatia. Repeat. Croatians with foreign citizenship or without citizenship are not considered foreigners within the meaning of the decree of this law. Then, I'm, I'm gonna suggest a few more amendments. I hope it's acceptable. I haven't had time to write the other amendments in writing, so here, I speak them orally. In Article 70, the first paragraph is amended and it reads: "The victim's identification is carried out by the ministry when it comes to the victim of a minor. The ministry is obliged to co-operate with the ministry responsible for social care, and can in this case co-operate with civil society organisations." With who? There are 27 thousand registered civil associations in Croatia. Among the associations... The convention is difficult to determine which of these associations the ministry must cooperate with. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This article, it must be very clear in this law that enters into force on 1 January 2008. So until then, I hope, until the vote, that you will consider this amendment of mine as well. In Article 95, the words "due to belonging to a special national group" shall be deleted. In this bill, there is no definition of a special social group. This concept is very flexible and therefore makes it impossible to apply the law as you have proposed in Article 95. And my third is the amendment and what I was saying, that's what my colleague Letica and my predecessors were talking about. In Article 121, paragraph 2 is amended and reads: "In the request referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article the Ministry of Labour – Croatian Employment, Regional Services – decides which are 22 and each county has its own regional employment services. Just because the county office knows best about their situation. I think this article is very important not to let what happened in this previous time, in the time of the applicable law, happen more business than work visas. Surely there are other objections that my fellow predecessors have spoken about and I won't repeat myself, but please, since there aren't many applications for this law, give me a little more time to write these three laws too, because the debate as far as I see it now will end. Excuse me, the amendments are now over.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90283	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90284	If not, then accept the oral amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90285	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90286	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues! Here, and this proposal for a law on foreigners that would essentially resuscitate the current Foreign Law, which for the first time regulated the issue in July in 2003, when Croatia had already shown that it was not an xenophobic country, that the country that wants to open itself to all people of good faith. And bearing in mind also the fate of the Croatian people, who for many years precisely through all his long history lived not only in Europe but also in all the countries of the world, which in the fight for a better life, for political reasons and for even humanitarian reasons. Let's just remember our missions. What is stated in the assessment of the underlying issues to be regulated by this law, I think it is comprehensive and done. It is also true that in the explanation and assessment of the situation, so just before individual norms, this proposal therefore speaks openly of the fact that a number of issues which were settled and in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior under the existing Foreigning Law are now being given the authority of the Ministry of the Interior. Perhaps at first sight it would seem that it is a certain reduction in the human rights of foreigners. However, this is not how it should be appreciated by who makes certain decisions, but whether they are transparent, whether they go exactly like these norms and then into the protection of such persons and whether any discretionary right is excluded? Right through the past and in the activities of the regular forces above all, in fact, the general staff of the Ministry of the Interior, that would not always be the case. Let us also remember the Constitutional Court’s decision on such decisions as to the provision, such provisions that allowed the employees of the Ministry of the Interior to apply or reject a certain requirement by discretionary assessment of the citizens. However, some norms remain such that it is doubtful what they will look like in practice or whether they will be possible to implement them. I am saying this first because, in the light of the law, many norms are changing precisely because the existing law was lacking in terms of certain legal gaps that this law wants to fill out. The assessment of the resources needed to implement the law shall specify exactly how much for 2008 when the law enters into force, when it applies that 3 million kuna will be needed in the state budget, and then for the next nine and 2010 respectively, another 4 million kuna. Maybe quite correct. But we're still making sure that this is one of the laws that's been passed almost before the election. And by the rulings, we had one principle, and we also had observations about the earlier authorities that it was not good to create obligations for a future government. So this is a law that will cost the state budget financially. However, in view of the purposes and purposes to which it is intended, and to which the funds are to be made, it may be necessary to reject that reason here, or reject it. It is commendable that Article 1(3) states that this law has, in this law, certain nouns listed in the male race are used as neutral for both male and female. This is good, this is one step forward as nomotechnically they should look like laws, but not just for the sake of nomotechnics but also for the sake of equality. It is unfortunate that today, too, civil servants in other branches of the government are looking primarily at the judicial to avoid exactly the noun of the female family, believing that this is a minority or excerpt from the noun of male origin, which is certainly not only the declared gender equality but also not acceptable to all individual laws. That is why I, in particular, draw attention to, or here, to all of us, to be warned that when we pass other laws, we also look up to ourselves and to this proposal for a law on foreigners that particularly apostrophes it. Article 13 speaks of when a travel document will not be issued to strangers. This number, the 4 tax reasons I consider safe, and given the experiences we've had not long ago but in the recent past, not too long ago what should be complemented? I believe that in no case can a travel document be issued to a stranger who is therefore publicly and publicly declared, who is known to our state bodies by virtue of the Ministry of Interior, does not recognise the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. So remember the case of Joras, who was exultant or nervous and in some way tried to play to the limit and played with the patience and nerves of civil servants in state bodies for many years. And occasionally this way, depending on where the election is. Nor should I issue travel documents to foreigners. So, in any case, complete the provision of Article 13 to those persons who are known to glorify fascist states, structures and totalitarian systems. I think that's what it takes and that's before we've met these cases in recent times. In the provision of Article 58, it is said that the early stay in connection with the family is intended to be approved by a foreigner, and here is a condition that I do not know how our officials will be able to control it. And it's not entirely... And clear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore that the following conditions must be met: that marriage mates or extramarital spouses are not married, therefore in, or not in a stable long-term relationship with another person. We know that these are facts that are very difficult for the court itself, especially educated for this kind of case and this kind of legal relationship that arises among people, hard to prove. The question is therefore raised which, in what way could employees in the Ministry of the Interior prove it or establish it. This also associated me with the fact that certain resources allocated to the application of this law are, therefore, not only for aid granted to a foreigner under certain articles which are taxing and listed, but for certain reasons, that a certain education of police officers to conduct, referents, those who carry out these administrative procedures will be necessary. So it is certain that an education is here because certain norms that the law has never known so far need to be implemented. I don't think they're big funds, and the benefits will be multiple. And for the sake of equal treatment and for their better protection. And something else that's also very important. Article 79 speaks of the word "au pair". "Au pair" is the French word. We here spoke very elegantly about Croatian. How he can't and can't die. How no one will ban us from speaking Croatian if they want to have a permanent stay. Therefore, we cannot introduce foreign words as new legal concepts in our Croatian laws in our Croatian laws. It's inadmissible, and I also think that this, this syntagma that would mean some kind of escort shouldn't be just about babysitting. It's an important job for strangers to do. Equally for the protection of old and powerless persons who are unfortunately more and need other people's help and care In short, I support the adoption of this law because being a stranger will not be uncomfortable in Croatia, but neither Croatians must be residents or tenants in their own country. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And then about the other laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90287	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90288	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's why we're not going to a list of incorrect allegations, a false allegation that here's a colleague probably as former minister of the former government. He says, "We had a principle that it was not good to create obligations for a future government." That list of those obligations I could recite for a really long time, but I'm just going to list some. From the strong signing of the construction contract, I don't know, for example, business and buildings without legal basis, without building permits and until the signing of former Minister Pancic's commitment to the future government when he was no longer a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90289	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Vice-President of the House, Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90290	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. I would first of all recommend that those who have already made this proposal respect the suggestion that this law go to another reading. I must say that the law is very well prepared for first reading, but there are a few other things that should be done both from the constitutional aspect, and in this respect certainly some of these and my doubts I will gladly present and share with you to see whether or not further discussion is necessary. Of course, above all, this concerns some of the issues that are extremely significant and are actually related to the issue of the position of foreigners, and are then related to Article 14. The Constitution, Article 26. The Constitution, then the question of responsibility, etc., etc., etc. So let me go in order. I'll try to find those remarks that are much more important and more important to me. The first question is that before our law, everyone is equal. Now, look, in Article 56, we have that family members are just underage children, and then when it comes to families of the European Economic Area that they are children up to 21 years of age, and then 21 years of age if they are in restraint... Therefore, it is obvious that privileged persons who are from the European Economic Area are also contrary to our Constitution because the Constitution says that they cannot be shared by sex or by sex or by this or by that, that I do not list everything that is written in Article 14. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, they must be equal before the law. Now, it is particularly important here to indicate that all citizens and foreigners in our country, in accordance with Article 26, are equal before courts and other state and private bodies with public authority. Therefore, the first remark to be reconsidered, see what and how to do. The second issue that is extremely important is related to article 70 if it is a victim of a minor. It is then said in paragraph 1 that this will be done in cooperation with civil society organisations. I would like to remind here that there is also a special law on certain humanitarian organisations, as well as an obligation under the Law on asylum related to working with the Red Cross, bound and bound by the Red Cross under international regulations regarding the service of search and rescue, etc. Therefore, in here other than these other civil society associations should certainly indicate the Croatian Red Cross. At the end of the convention, not only is Croatia a signatories but it has accepted them by notifying and accepting them. The third observation that is very important is the issue of Article 88, where it is said that among other things a solution to the banishment brought by the ministry, police administration, or police station. Now, later you see in Article 91 that when the ministry does so, then it is not allowed to appeal but itself, there can be a administrative dispute. If the police department or the station works, then a complaint can be made, an open two-stage procedure. However, there remains a problem related to the Constitution. This Regulation shall enter into The Constitution is laid down and prescribed that only an exceptional right of appeal can be denied and, if it is denied, is, as the Constitution says well here, therefore the right to appeal may be exceptionally excluded in cases of a certain law if other legal protection is provided. Now here, in these cases where the right to appeal is denied, it should clearly be stated by the law which are the cases. They are not listed, remains for discretionary evaluation primarily of the ministry then both the police administration and the police station. And in such a situation, it is quite clear that this issue must be elaborated in particular. Of course, the most serious question is about the article, among other things, that same 91st because it also says that the appeal does not delay the execution, i.e. the administrative dispute does not delay the execution of the solution. In such a situation, the question arises, and what is it now that we have expelled man from what it means to him, in fact, after that, if eventually in a dispute he succeeds in court, nothing. Nothing. Therefore, the issue needs to be discussed quite seriously, done a little bit, and opened up to that 70th particular question, you know, whether they have the right of humanitarian organisations and civil society NGOs to organise and provide legal assistance. Then Article 94 in paragraph 1(2) says: "Because of his suspicion that he committed or intended to commit a serious crime," gentlemen, on suspicion that he committed or intended to commit a criminal offence, but of course not with us but in the country of the European Economic Area, whether or not he will be forced away from our country. Now, I'd like to remind you that the Constitution explicitly states that no one is guilty until his judgment finds fault. And here we go from the assumption. Not only may he have done it, but even if there was a purpose, we doubt that we have no proof at all that he did it, but we are starting from the assumption, let's say, on the basis of some notation which, by operational finding, some of the countries of the European Economic Area have recorded, delivered it to us, we will exclude such a person from the Republic of Croatia. I think in a situation like this, it needs to be worked out in particular. The second question is if there is a convention on the fight against terrorism, internationally organised crime, but these issues need to be specifically singled out in a specific article and in that section to indicate that there is an exception and to indicate that these additional data are being verified regarding the fact that both the Constitution guaranteeed the rights and freedoms of man and citizen are not being violated. Article 95 is too narrow to prohibit discrimination where it is said, it is forbidden to force foreigners away from a country where their life or freedoms are, etc. It is forgotten that, according to Article 14, even though there is discrimination, for example, by sex, language, political or other belief, you know not this political or other belonging to the social group, you know, political opinion, belief. That's what our Constitution forbids discrimination. Well, it is a question among other issues, and I will not now quote Article 14(1), but it would be good if that provision were first and foremost in line with Article 14(1) in order to have a qualitatively different opinion in this regard. Or I have to say that in addition to the provisions of Article 42, where we are finely said that there is a foreigner's stay is short-term, temporary and permanent, but the fourth category appears in Article 112 is temporary stay. The question arises how do I further know that this exists in the Convention but it needs to be worked out and then it should also be brought into line with Article 42 of this Article 112. This Article 114(3) of the Act is then considered to be voluntary work if it is governed by general labour regulations. Gentlemen, we have a special Voluntary Law that allowed foreigners to come under this law, to acquire and practice volunteer work and which is not regulated by the Labour Act. The issue should therefore be brought into line with that part of the legal system. Of course, there is also a question of Article 115, which says that guaranteed rights are particularly relevant to and now attempts to provide tax-based examples of respect for labour rights and rights from the work of foreigners. This is the first opposite of Article 26 of our Constitution because in Article 26. The Constitution I quote again, all citizens are equal to the Republic of Croatia and foreigners in front of courts and other state and private bodies and Article 14. The constitution which explicitly states all are equal before the law. Therefore, if a foreigner has been granted a work permit, he must have the right and obligations of working relationship both on the basis of work and on the basis of work equal to each of our other workers and employees here and one of those rights cannot be singled out here which would otherwise be impossible to achieve or question whether it might be possible to do so. Then you have this issue of freedom of movement regarding migrants, and on the principle of reciprocity. I don't think it's good to talk about the principle of mutuality of fellow Letica has further opened the issue to neighbouring countries because we are equating foreigners no matter what countries they come from here. Therefore, we should not be privileged. Of course, this issue is a key issue for companies, so you put it according to this description and managers are key persons in companies and representations, etc. and it is impossible to set it so broadly without at the same time bringing into an unequal position all other foreigners who come from other countries who are not members of... economic space and, by the way, be told I have many more of these remarks, but just one more sentence. You know, one country is the European Community, and the other is the countries of European economic space. The countries of the European Economic Area are Norway and Switzerland, therefore make sure that you do not consider European economic space only these two countries and let the entire European Union go, so that would be a disaster. Give that part of the work and for the sake of not listing further, once again I pray for a good law, a good suggestion to go to another reading that these things are also questioned and possibly removed and completed in order to get a quality and good Foreigner Act which is actually an additional argument more to bring Croatia closer to the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90291	Thank you. In conclusion, Secretary of State Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90292	Just for a little while. I think we are all unique to be seen in the debates that this is a good bill and that it is a fundamental urgency that this law achieves the highest European standards in protecting the rights of foreigners and fully regulating their stay in the Republic of Croatia. Several public debates were held in the draft of this law, which included a really wide range of NGOs, competent state institutions, ministries and all those who could contribute to the development of a more high-quality bill. All these remarks that have been made despite the praises of the law will indeed be considered. However, I just have to say that we also have certain time-limits on law-making, and we will consider whether these remarks that are justified can be incorporated into the law through amendments, so that we will really carefully consider everything that has been said in today's debate and possibly try to correct the already good bill so that it is truly in line with the highest European standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90293	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90294	Final proposal of the Foreign Law. The special table is divided into representatives and we also have amendments to the government after the deadline. We should vote first, shall we vote on the government's amendments after the deadline? Please, who's in favour of this proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 103 for, 11 against. So we'll discuss and vote on the government's amendments by way of deadline. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Amendment 1. Government. Foreign law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90295	I apologize, therefore, for Amendment 1. The Governments shall read: "Extremely Article 78 of this Act permanent stay may be granted to a foreigner on a temporary stay returning to the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the programme of residence and the care of exiles, refugees and displaced persons, and fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 83(1), paragraph 1, 3 and 5 of this Act." The amendment is proposed to continue the implementation of the programme of return and care for exiles, refugees and displaced persons, which has been in effect since '98. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90296	I'm opening a debate. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90297	Well, look, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, what happened to this Foreign Law? The Government has referred it to the adoption procedure without agreeing with the European Commission at the same time and we are now receiving amendments to the Government which amend the fundamental principles of the Law. If you look at all the amendments you have submitted, you are changing the fundamental principles of the Law we discussed in the Croatian Parliament and unfortunately it is going to be on that variant that this Law, as well as the Law on Asylums, will allow for the import of cheap labour in Croatia. It's one unfortunately of the intensities if all of the government's amendments are read. This is inadmissible to mean that after this debate, the Government provides amendments that change the fundamental principles on which the Law was based when we were delivered and discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90298	I'm closing the debate. Who is for this amendment to the government? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 94 for, 12 against, 8 abstentions. The amendment becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90299	In Article 157, paragraph 2 is added, which reads: "In the event that a citizen of a Member State has an EEP, there is no ID referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, it is required to give him the opportunity to obtain the necessary documents or otherwise to prove that he is a citizen of a Member State of the European Economic Area." Explanation. The amendment proposes that the amendment be proposed in order to comply with Directive 2004/38 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the rights of citizens of the Union and members of their families to freedom of movement and stay in the territory of the Member States. I would just like to say, since all these amendments apply to one chapter, the XII chapter relating to the right of non-members of the European Economic Area, not all articles are completely changed. Certain rights are changed with regard to the citizens of the European Economic Area, but in order to facilitate the monitoring of the changes, we have listed articles. So there aren't as many changes as there are to conclude from the articles. The changes are small, but we've given them to you for easy tracking.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90300	I'm opening a debate. Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90301	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! Do you understand what you've just read? Go to Slovenia now, and do not have any correction, so how will they treat you? Will he do it this way? Is this how he's gonna do it? So if you don't have an ID, then you know what the rules are in that situation. He's taking you right back. And so we need him to have no ID, now we have to give him all the conditions and get him his own IDs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90302	Another explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90303	Why did you put that on?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90304	A colleague, Buconjic, representative, secretary of state...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90305	... It's a story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You'd better pull this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90306	Don't comment. You said yours. I am voting on this amendment. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 93 for, 15 against, 2 abstentions, and this amendment remains an integral part of the law. Amendment 3. Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90307	Amendment 3. Let me explain the same thing. All these amendments shall apply from the entry into the European Union of Croatia. It means not with the day of the law, but with the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union. Amendment 3. "A citizen of the EEP Member State has the right to stay in the Republic of Croatia for up to 90 days from the date of entry into the Republic of Croatia if he has a valid travel document or ID card. If he wishes to stay longer than 90 days, he is required to report a temporary stay before the 90-day period to the police administration or to the station." The amendment is proposed to bring legal text terminology into line with the report of Directive 2004/83.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90308	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 93 for, 12 against, 3 abstentions. And this amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90309	Amendment 4 to Article 159 is amended as follows: "A citizen of the EEP Member State who intends to work or work in the Republic of Croatia shall exercise the right to a temporary stay for the purpose of work if he has: 1. a valid ID card or valid passport, 2. A working contract or other relevant contract or confirmation that it is an independent employee or service provider." Explanation as for the preceding article.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90310	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 99 for, 8 against, 3 abstentions. And this component of the law becomes an amendment. Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90311	In Article 161(1), the words ‘if’ shall be deleted at the beginning of the sentence. It's about nomotechnical text editing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90312	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 103 for, 7 against. And this component of the law becomes. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90313	Article 162 is amended as follows: "A citizen of the EEP Member State is entitled to a temporary stay for the purpose of education or study if he has a valid ID card or passport, is enrolled in a higher school or attends another form of education, adds a statement on means of maintenance, has health insurance." The amendment is proposed to bring legal text terminology in line with Directive 2004/38 EC.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90314	I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90315	Tell me, Mr. Secretary of State, is this directive perhaps passed these days? Because that directive was in force before and when you were doing the law, you should have known, because this is the label of the P.Z.E. law. means harmonising our laws with the acquis of the European Union. So the government remembers now that there's a directive. So the government's argument to submit amendments beyond the deadline would only be that the directive came into force in the meantime. I mean, this is very unserious.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90316	I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 93 for, 8 against, 6 abstentions. And this amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90317	Article 163 is amended as follows: "A citizen of the EEP Member State who wishes to stay in the Republic of Croatia for other purposes than for the purpose of work, education or study is entitled to a temporary stay if he has a valid ID card or a valid passport, has means of maintenance, has health insurance." The amendment is proposed to bring legal text terminology into line with the report of Directive 2004/38/EC.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90318	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who is for this amendment 7? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 100 for, 5 against, 3 abstentions. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90319	Article 164 is amended as follows: "A citizen of the EEP Member State does not exercise the right to a temporary stay if his stay in the Republic of Croatia poses a threat to public order, national security or public health or is prohibited from entering the stay.". The amendment is proposed to bring legal text terminology in line with Directive 2004/83.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90320	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 96 for, 9 against, 3 abstentions. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90321	Article 165 is amended as follows: "A citizen of the EEP Member State is entitled to a temporary stay while meeting the conditions for temporary stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90322	Read it more clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90323	"A citizen of the EEP Member State is entitled to a temporary stay while meeting the conditions for temporary stay prescribed by this law.". The explanation is as for the preceding article.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90324	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 92 for, 4 against, 3 abstentions. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90325	Article 166 is amended as follows: "The temporary stay shall cease to be a citizen of the EEP Member State if it is prohibited to enter and stay by cancellation of the stay, if the temporary stay has been obtained in a seductive manner, if it no longer fulfils the conditions for early stay.". The amendment is proposed in order to comply with Article 14(2) and Article 35. Directive 2004/38.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90326	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 92 for, 7 against, 3 abstentions. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90327	Article 167(1) is amended and reads as follows: "A citizen of the EEP Member State shall be entitled to a permanent stay if, until the day of application in the Republic of Croatia, a temporary stay is reported for an uninterrupted period of five years.". Paragraph 2 of point 2 is amended as follows: "from 2 to 12 months continuously for justified reasons such as pregnancy, child birth, serious illness, study, vocational training, reference to work in another country.". The amendment is proposed to bring legal text terminology in line with Directive 2004/38.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90328	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? 90 for, 7 against, 2 abstentions. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90329	Amendment 11. Article 168 is amended to bring legal text terminology in line with Directive 2004/38.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90330	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 89 for, 5 against, 2 abstentions. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90331	Article 169 is amended as follows: "A national of the EEP Member State shall be issued a document confirming a permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia.". With the same explanation as the previous article.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90332	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 92 for, 5 against, 1 abstention. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90333	In Article 171(3), the words ‘paragraph 1’ are replaced by the following: the words "and two" shall be added and a new paragraph 4 shall read as follows: "In the event that a member of the family referred to in Article 156(2) of this Act is a citizen of the EEP Member State or does not have the necessary travel document, or the necessary visa of the official border police, it shall be required to provide him with the possibility to obtain the necessary documents or otherwise prove that a member of the EEP Member State's family is a citizen.". The amendment is proposed to comply with Directive 2004/38.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90334	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 87 for, 7 against, 2 abstentions. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90335	The amendment proposes to amend Article 172 in order to comply with Article 4(4). Directive 38/2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90336	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I'm voting on that amendment. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 94 for, 5 against. It's part of the law. Amendment 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90337	It is proposed to amend Article 173 to comply with Directive 38/2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90338	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on this amendment. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 93 for, 4 against, 1 abstention. It becomes an integral part of the law. The 16th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90339	The amendment proposes to amend Article 174 in order to bring the wording of the legal text in line with the wording of Directive 2004/38.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90340	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on this amendment. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 93 for, 3 against, 2 abstentions becomes an integral part of the law. The 17th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90341	The amendment proposes to amend Article 175 in order to bring the wording of the legal text in line with the wording of Directive 2004/38.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90342	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 17. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 94 for and 4 against. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment eighteen.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90343	The amendment proposes to amend Article 176 in order to bring the wording of the legal text in line with the wording of Directive 2004/38.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90344	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on this amendment. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 95 for, 5 against, 1 abstention. It becomes an integral part of the law. The 19th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90345	The amendment proposes to amend Article 177 for the purposes of nomotechnical harmonisation and to comply with Article 11 of Directive 2004/38.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90346	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 94 for, 3 against, 2 abstentions. It's getting complicated. Twenty-first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90347	The amendment proposes to amend Article 179 in order to bring the wording of the legal text in line with the wording of Directive 2004/38.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90348	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 96 for, 5 abstentions. It's part of the law. Twenty-one first.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90349	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90350	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting Amendment 20 first. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 95 for, against 3, 2 abstentions. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90351	It is proposed to amend Article 180 to bring legal text terminology in line with the wording of Directive 2004/38.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90352	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 98 for, 3 against. It becomes an integral part of the law. Twenty-four.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90353	In Article 181 behind the words “Article 156 adds the words and paragraph 2.”
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90354	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 97 for four abstentions. Twenty-fiveth Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90355	It is proposed to amend the article, to amend the article, to propose an amendment to Article 182 in order to comply with Article 14(2) of Directive 2004/38.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90356	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. 99 for 2 abstentions, 2 against. Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Twenty-five.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90357	Article 194 adds a new indent, which reads: “The amendments to Chapter XI of this Law are proposed as new amendments to the proposed amendments are provided for in Chapter XI. the law, therefore, should be prescribed to keep records of the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90358	I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90359	This is the fifth amendment to be adopted on the basis of the directive since... EC 38. This directive became Mr. Secretary of State the moment you wrote the law. What we are even more interested in is what you will do when the negotiations on this chapter are completed, or on the chapter of the free movement of workers, then we will change the law again. So you are doing everything completely unconsistent and what you stand out today is a disgrace to the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90360	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 92 for, 2 against, becoming a constituent law. And Amendment 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90361	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Convention on the application of the Schengen Agreement from 14 June 85.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90362	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in? Against? Restraint? 91 for, 7 against, 3 abstentions. It becomes an integral part of the law. Now we have a table of amendments for the MP. Representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90363	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation: The final proposal of the Foreigning Act provides for the term of the foreigner in the sense of the provisions of that law, meaning entry, stay, travel documents, employment and... abandoning strangers. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90364	Representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90365	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, you've tired me of explaining this amendment, and I'm going to explain it one more time. In the right to enter, move, stay and work in the Republic of Croatia persons who are members of the Croatian people should be equated with Croatian citizens because this is the demographic economic interest of the Republic of Croatia and its constitutional obligation. In the hope that you will install this amendment into a new migration policy strategy, I will withdraw it and I do not want on this... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90366	Thank you. Retracted. Amendment 2 to Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90367	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90368	It becomes an integral part of the law. 3. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90369	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90370	It's becoming an integral part. 4th representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90371	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90372	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5th Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90373	It's unacceptable. Knowledge of the language and letters of the receiving State is exclusively prescribed by Council Directive 2003/109 of 25.12.2003 on the status of third-country nationals who have permanent residence. So language knowledge is prescribed as a condition for obtaining permanent status, not for granting temporary stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90374	Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90375	We have now listened to 27 government amendments to an ideal law on which no objections can be made. All amendments are amendments that are in line with European directives. This amendment is an amendment that protects the Croatian language in the Republic of Croatia. Whose law is this now? Who speaks of what you have done with these 27 amendments with the law, only dear God knows. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90376	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The sixth representative of Sima Lučina. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90379	It's unacceptable. The provisions governing the temporary stay for family merger purposes are in line with Council Directive 2003/86. of 22.9.2003 on the right to family integration, which explicitly requires that Member States may obtain a stay under the law in accordance with this Directive and a third-country national who is bound by the maintainer through a registered partnership, and in the Republic of Croatia there is no register of same-sex communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90380	Representative Furio Radin. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 9th also represented by Fury Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90381	It's unacceptable. The provisions governing the temporary stay for family merger purposes are in line with Council Directive 2003/86. on the right to family integration remains the same reasoning as for the preceding article.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90382	Representative Furio Radin. Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 10th Representative Fury Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90383	It shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous two amendments to the Radins.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90384	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 10th representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90385	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90386	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11th Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90387	It's unacceptable. The obligation to verify Croatian and Latin letters may only be prescribed for foreigners applying for permanent stay in accordance with Council Directive 2003/109. on the status of third-country nationals who have a permanent stay, and not for foreigners who apply for temporary residence approval.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90388	Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90389	Foreigners get a permanent stay after five years of staying in the country. After five years of staying in the country everyone speaks already language is otherwise not normal. My amendment was aimed at encouraging people who intend to live and work here to serve bread in some way to learn the Croatian language first. In five years, it doesn't make sense. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90390	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 12th representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90391	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90392	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 13th representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90393	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90394	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 14. MPs Zdenka Babić Petričević, Krešimir Ćosić, Ivan Bagarić and Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90395	It's acceptable. Belonging to a special social group is a term taken over by the 1951 Convention on Refugee Status, which is the party and the Republic of Croatia. The principle of banning or returning is contained in that Convention, and it also has a foothold in Article 3. ... The Convention and also has a foothold in Article 3 for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90396	Amendment six, 15 of the same MPs and MPs withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90397	It is accepted that it reads: "The proposed annual labour permit quota is produced by the ministry responsible for work, based on the opinion of the Croatian Employment Institute, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the representatives of the social partners".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90398	Okay, in the modified form of the accepted amendment. 16 of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90399	It is not accepted, the adoption of the amendments should amend the whole concept of the final proposal of the foreign law, since the issue of work permits, i.e. business permits, is also related to the regulation of the temporary stay of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia by the Ministry of Interior. The above-mentioned solution has been accessed...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90400	Okay. Here's Zdenka Babić-Peteričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90401	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State on the Committee and the Proposer himself discussed the amendment as I submitted it in this form. However, everywhere in the world, the residence permit is issued by the Ministry of the Interior and the work permit is issued by employment institutions or the Ministry of Labour. So I'm pulling, and you're doing a double job.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90402	Retracted. 17. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90403	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90404	It's part of the law. 18th of the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90405	It is not accepted, the stated time limit up to 30 days a year refers to the stay of foreigners who...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90406	Retracted. The 19th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90407	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90408	It's an integral part of the law. 20th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90409	It's unacceptable. Article 280 of the Treaty on the
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90410	Retracted. 21st of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90411	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90412	Retracted. Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal for a law on foreigners. Score. To vote. 83 for, 3 abstentions 17 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90414	We're moving on to the next one. - Final proposal of the Asylum Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 573 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, on Internal Policy and National Security, the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, human rights and the rights of national minorities and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90415	Thank you very much. Here has already been discussed with the previous Foreign Law that the Foreigner Law is closely related to several other legal proposals and to the migration policy strategy. One of these laws is the Law of Asylum, which has already passed the first reading. I will only remind you that the law, or the proposal of the Asylum Act, in the first reading, also received positive criticism, that most of its provisions were praised, but there was a need for intervention in this original text. First of all, because of the same harmonisation and promotion of the highest standards in line with European and global practices in the protection of the rights of refugees and exiles, and there was the biggest observation and applied to the two-stage resolution of asylum seekers, namely whether there should be an administrative court or whether there should be a secondary administrative body, and we have decided to propose to amend that first proposed Asylum Act in a way that introduces that second-degree body. Therefore, that remark concerns Article 12, which provides for the jurisdiction of the administrative court to settle complaints in cases of asylum application, and thus in connection with the abolition of the appeal body in asylum proceedings. Therefore, in the final proposal for the law of this law, which is now recognised before you, as well as the prescribed competence of the asylum commission to resolve in complaints from asylum seekers and asylum seekers. We tried to regulate this second-degree body as best as possible, so the composition and jurisdiction of that second-degree body was prescribed. In order to achieve full independence and expertise, the Commission has been substantially modified in relation to an earlier solution which was still in force in the current law, in particular with regard to the organisation of elections and appointments of members, the way in which the members were financed and the resolution of members. The commission consists of presidents and four members appointed from the ranks of civil servants. The president is a permanent employee of the body, and members of the commission do work alongside their regular work. One of the members is a prominent university professor of legal matters, one is a representative of an NGO dealing with the promotion and protection of human rights, especially refugees, and two are members of the state administration. The committee shall decide in a valid manner when the meetings are attended by at least three members or two members and the president, decisions shall be taken by majority vote. The mandate of the members and presidents of the commission is 5 years, with them being re-elected and also for certain reasons removed. The commission makes its own rules of procedure, the government makes a decision on the president's salary and on fees for the work of members of the commission. The conditions for the establishment and functioning of an independent second-degree body in asylum procedures have been met and it is possible for asylum seekers to exercise the right to an effective legal remedy, which implies making a decision within a reasonable period of time by an independent body. Again, we have adopted this proposal to regulate the existence of this body, i.e. the commission, because we believe that this will give asylum seekers the opportunity to protect their rights in the best way in accordance with the highest European and world standards in terms of protection and the rights of exiles, i.e. asylum seekers. With these other institutes that are being introduced by this proposed Law, I will not tell you because in the first reading of this Law I would say consensual support. There were no important remarks, so I believe that in this finally proposed text that is before you, this law will indeed be recognised as a good law that really provides the highest protection to the exiled and refugees who seek asylum and who will be in line with the highest democratic standards of the European Union and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90416	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90417	Your Honor, Mr. President. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 99th session held on 13 June 2007 discussed the Final Proposal for an Asylum Act submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The members of the Committee shall be informed of the reasons and interests for which the adoption of the law in question is proposed. The applicant's representative points out that the law in question is introduced by the introduction of new institutes... asylum makes it impossible to abuse it and manages subsidiary protection for foreigners who do not meet the conditions for granting asylum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Committee supported the position expressed by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, assessing that this legislative proposal ensures an effective implementation of constitutional implementation that allows foreign citizens to receive asylum to the Republic of Croatia and represents a harmonisation with the acquis of the EU. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Asylum Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90418	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90419	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 61st session held on 13 June 2007, the Human Rights and Rights Committee of National Minorities discussed the final proposal of the Asylum Act submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee considered this Final Bill as an interested working body. In the debate, it was concluded that a significant number of proposals and suggestions given in the debate on the Bill proposal, including some of the comments made by the Committee, were incorporated in the Final Proposal of the Asylum Act. In particular, it is pointed out that asylum prosecutors are able to appeal against the first-degree decision of the Asylum Commission and the possibility of legal protection in the proceedings before the Administrative Court. However, the opinion is also expressed that certain provisions should be further improved in order to achieve a satisfactory legal solution. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Asylum in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but with an amendment proposed by the UNHCR representative in the Committee's debate, which praised this proposal, but they still consider it necessary to adopt another amendment. In Article 60(1), paragraph 4 is amended as follows: "The asylum seeker came from a safe third country where there is a link between a person seeking asylum and a relevant third country on which it would be reasonable to expect that person to return to that country." Explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal for a law introduced the concept of a safe third country provided for by the Council of Europe Directive in the minimum standards for the procedures for granting and withdrawing refugee status. Although the definition of this concept in the final proposal of the Law is largely in line with that procedural directive, the legal rules governing this concept do not contain a guarantee provided for in Article 27 of the Directive which provides that the application of the safe third country concept is subject to the rules of national law which include rules providing for a link between a person seeking asylum and a third country concerned, which would make it reasonable to expect that person to go to that country. For that reason, the amendment proposes more precise provisions contained in Article 60(1). Final bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90420	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90421	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 83rd session held on 11 June 2007 discussed the Final Proposal for an Asylum Act submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 16 May 2007. The Committee discussed the final proposal of the Law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the debate, the Committee stressed that the applicant had submitted a series of comments in the debate on the Bill's Proposal, and thus incorporated this Committee into the text of the Final Proposal of the Law and supported the solutions set out in the final proposal of the Law which it is harmonising with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Asylum Act in the text proposed by the applicant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90422	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Marijan Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90423	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! Here, this is another law that places the Republic of Croatia among the countries with the highest achievements in asylum policy. And while relatively much has been said and written about the asylum institute lately, it is still unfortunately not clear to many of our citizens what people have the right to seek and obtain asylum and what they would say to me, or how they would call it a haven in one of the third countries. I will try to explain this and take a good look at the example of one of our intellectuals who, in the former communist regime, disagreed with the regime and was convicted and imprisoned because of his clear statement of opinion. After serving prisons nowhere in Croatia and even in the area of the former Yugoslavia, he could not find a job or peace. He was found everywhere by UDBA officials and said he had no what, that he couldn't be safe here and that he couldn't get a job. And unfortunately, since his travel document was taken from him, he had to cross the border illegally and in one of the neighbouring countries as a politically persecuted person he sought and received asylum. He won as an asylum and a job, successfully schooled and raised his children and saved his family from destruction. When Croatia became free, it returned to its homeland and lives here with its family. Well, that's one example of people. Why am I saying that? That's because there were many stories about who these asylum seekers were during the search for shelters in Croatia, during the search for asylum space and in the media and in many other things? Although Croatia is now not a target country for asylum seekers because a relatively small number of people are seeking asylum, we had an asylum law that came into force since 1.7.2004. This law defines which foreigners are granted asylum for reasons of temporary protection. Two regulations have been adopted concerning the accommodation of asylum seekers and asylum seekers and foreigners under temporary protection, and the amount of financial assistance to be given to them. However, this current law is not, on asylum is not in line with the latest legislation and the achievements of the European Union in the area of asylum. And as it was a large number of amendments and additions, a new bill was drafted that passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament in December last year. Almost all parliamentary committees and clubs and NGOs, many legal experts, parliamentarians, have made their remarks on the amendments and additions to this law, many of which have been adopted as already mentioned and incorporated into the final draft of the law. Of course, most of the proposals just referred to Article 12, which was abolished by the Board of Appeal in the asylum proceedings and prescribed jurisdiction of the Administrative Court for the resolution of the asylum suit. In this final proposal of the law, these remarks are respected and the responsibility of the Asylum Committee to be dealt with in complaints from asylum seekers and asylum seekers is prescribed. Here, as the secretary of state said, the commission consists of presidents and four members appointed from the ranks of state officials. The president is a permanent employee of the body, and members of the commission do work alongside their regular work. One member is a prominent university professor of legal matters, one representative of an NGO involved in promoting the protection of human rights, especially refugees and two members are from the state administration. In this way it is possible, conditions have been created for the establishment and functioning of a professional and independent second-degree body in asylum procedures, and it is possible for asylum seekers to exercise the right to an effective legal remedy, which implies making decisions within a reasonable period of time by an independent body. By adopting the new Asylum Act, the asylum system in the Republic of Croatia is uniform with the EU asylum acquis and the relevant international documents that are all listed, all Directives 2003/9, 2001/55, 2005/85, 2004/83. In fact, all the observations that were in line with these positive legal regulations and the achievements of European legislation were accepted and introduced into the final draft of the law. It's secured and real and effective... provisions providing that non-citizens can receive asylum in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The protection of persons who do not comply with the conditions for granting status under the Convention on the Status of Refugees will be ensured and must not return to the country of origin because they are threatened with the death penalty or execution, wartime or similar situation, or for other humanitarian reasons, by introducing so-called “death penalty”. Subsidial protection. A unique procedure for granting subsidiary protection is in place. In this respect, the Ministry shall examine in one formal procedure the conditions for granting subsidiary protection unless the foreigner fulfils the conditions for granting asylum. Furthermore, in the current application of the Asylum Act, shortcomings have been observed and are sought through a clear formulation... the introduction of new institutes to improve asylum procedures, and to prevent abuse of procedures and to speed up the procedure for clearly unfounded requirements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The introduction of an accelerated process will contribute to the efficiency and economic efficiency of the process and to the reduction of abuse. It is not accepted that, at all stages of the procedure and not only before the Administrative Court or the Second Instanceal Authority, it would be free of charge of legal aid, as this is not prescribed by Council Directive Europe 205/85 on minimum standards for procedures, allocation and confiscation of refugee status in the Member States. That article stipulates, among other things, that Member States may lay down in their national legislation that free legal aid and representation are granted only for proceedings before the court and tribunal only to those who do not have sufficient resources. Only if the appeal or review has a chance of success. So free legal aid in the first degree is not mandatory. In the 2007 budget, the interior ministry provided funds for free legal assistance to asylum seekers and asylum seekers in the second degree. In accordance with those Directives, the amendments to the previous law have been harmonised and the following: the definition of asylum has been amended. Azil is no longer a right to be recognised but a protection granted to a stranger. It allows asylum seekers after one year of stay in Croatia to work unless the asylum procedure is completed during that period. The right to educate asylum seekers is extended so that, compared to the existing law, asylum seekers before, they have the right to secondary education in addition to primary education. Free legal assistance from asylum seekers covering assistance in drawing up an appeal and representing the asylum commission is regulated. The concept of safe country of origin is introduced. The definition of family members and the right to bring together families of asylum seekers and foreigners under temporary protection is expanded. The right to work for a foreigner under temporary protection is laid down and criminal sanctions are imposed on asylum seekers who abuse the provisions on the restriction of freedom of movement and often violate the provisions of the home order of the shelter. In the case of restrictions on freedom of movement, the asylum seeker is allowed to be reconsidered by the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, not by the judicial authority, as proposed by the provision of the Council Directive 2005/85 as a swift judicial review. The following guarantees from asylum seekers in the process have been specifically developed. Access to translator services. The duty of the asylum seeker to be informed on time of his rights and obligations in a language reasonably assumed to be understood, the right to a personal interview, the possibility of communication with the UNHCR representative. The right to be informed of the decision, the opportunity to consult with a legal adviser or other adviser. The right to free legal aid, the right to notify of its legal position at critical times during the proceedings. Respecting the specificity of procedural guarantees for unaccompanied minors because of their vulnerability. In this context, the best interests of the child are considered primarily. For all of these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Final Proposal for an Asylum Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90424	Thank you. The word on behalf of the SDP Club has a respected representative of Sima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90425	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues are before us another law that I believe should have been discussed after the migration strategy because I am really interested in what this country's policy is regarding immigrants, in terms of migration. Will this country lead a policy to attract young professionals and be strangers? I don't know if we should be motivated to have carpenters, welders and so forth enter the country without a problem. Since we still don't know what the strategy is, it's very difficult to talk about this law. I'm going to try a few general thesis, a finding, something to say, but still since it's a second reading and a few specific ones. First, I would like to thank the promoter for accepting a number of remarks from the first reading. However, it seems to me that one of the numbers that were presented in the first reading was not accepted and, in my humble assessment, it seems to me that they are important. Because no matter what we think this law essentially treats human rights. Although not the human rights of Croatian citizens but human rights as such. So what I would like to say in two basic lines, unlike the Foreign Law, seems to me that this law is, in most parts, still below certain minimums that are reflected in the European Commission's directives. It also seems to me that this law comes from the fact that all those asylum seekers actually go with the assumption that they abuse it. And in that part, and in that part, I think it's this, that the law is restrictive. By carefully reading the law and reasoning we received on the benches, I have to read a paragraph and ask myself and try to comment on it. The point is, it is about the objections of the Committee on Immigration to this law. So I'll read it. So "Emmigrant Committee members have expressed concern that by the rate of this, this law could significantly increase the number of immigrants. They believe that the proposed law accepts greater laws than those set by EU members in their laws. The opinion is that European laws are far more restrictive, for example, to grant asylum to persons belonging to certain social groups." Emphasis on this to certain social groups. "based on common features" in this case, say "sex orientations". You also have in the next paragraph where the Committee asks us to define ourselves better in Article 2, I don't know, what is family, nationality, citizenship, social status. I think that these grades in the Croatian Parliament, given the Croatian Constitution, where all people, regardless of nation, race, sex, sexual orientation, should actually be kept equal in front of the law. Because about someone bad if you went to read these reviews of the Immigration Committee you wouldn't understand what the Committee was about? Because I'm counting and I think that the Immigration Committee should actually take care of the immigration, that these people who are moving in have certain rights and that they should be protected. And that they need it if you want to help in specific cases, actually help in specific situations. And not actually bring general evaluations that are so to say, at least by me, some kind of cultural civilizational acceptance. If you want from the constitutional point of view of doubt. But I am glad that the motioner did not accept any of these proposals from the Immigration Committee, which suggests that the applicant is still at a higher level than the Immigration Committee. So I think that otherwise, and unnecessaryly, this kind of fear, the fear that can be read from the law that, I don't know, too many people will seek asylum and that too many will get it. As far as I know, a few dozen people have asked for asylum, as far as I know, only one person, only one person brought it. Some estimates of the profession say that in some of the best variants of 200 people at the level of the year can seek asylum, neither 10% to 20 possibly obtain that asylum. Therefore, I do not think that Croatia is yet the final destination for the part of people who think to leave or should leave their country because of different circumstances than that Croatia is more of a transition area for them and is still trying towards the West. I believe that Croatia will be approaching the European Union in that sense when it finally enters the European Union that, in fact, then Croatia will become in the right sense to say so to Mecca for asylum seekers. So I'm saying all this because of the unwarranted fear of foreigners, asylum seekers, immigrants. I don't think Croatia has any reason to, and if you want the Croatian authorities, the state bodies are afraid of it. Here I would actually try to make a small contribution now with a few concrete proposals. Some have already been said here, but perhaps in a different way. I fully agree with the Immigration Committee that Article 2 should be redefined, but in another sense. In fact, Article 2 should be defined in fact when it comes to single couples, or extramarital communities, that they should be joined together, that is to say, same-sex communities. Let me remind you, you are calling for the law to be in line with the Council of Europe directives, etc., etc. So if you do not enter this proposal, which I will normally offer in the form of an amendment, then the Council of Europe Directive 200483EC is directly violated, that is, that is, that it cannot be limited to the extension of family members to a member, that it must therefore be to the same-sex communities. Also, I am not coming back later in Article 48. It also continues to stand, as family reunions are being discussed there. A few words about the reasons for a possible exclusion, or why one will not, why someone will not be given asylum. That's actually the whole story that it seems to me already Mr. Radin mentioned around the third country. And I think that amendment should definitely be accepted. Because generalising therefore the register that will bring the Government which are third countries. You know, she, that third country can be safe for me, but I don't know, she doesn't have to be safe for someone else. Because all people aren't the same. And in that sense, I think that concept should actually be applied and a little bit different to work it out. It also seems to me that Article 6 should be modified in the sense that it is actually possible to exclude because of a certain crime to clearly state in accordance with the provisions of the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia, right. Because something, because the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, let's say, some countries where someone comes from are not identical. The changes that have been made to the Asylum Committee, it seems to me, that he now needs the role and function, but several remarks. First remark, I don't know why I don't put more representatives of civil society in these councils. After all, in this way, their role will actually make them responsible. So now they won't be in a position to make any complaints, to complain about the possible refusal of an asylum claim, but they should be held accountable by me and I would give them the same number as the people of the state bodies, or experts. I also don't know why it insists that those sitting on those committees must be lawyers. I know the laws are written by lawyers, and somehow I understand that vanity and the need to bring out the law-writing lawyer, as well as the profession. But I don't think the issue of asylum is exclusive and it's not just a question of law. There are other things that should actually change in that direction. I will also make several amendments to this in the sense that someone and others who are not a lawyer who knows something about the problem of asylum and that they can make a measurement decision in that commission. The question of education and language. It would also call for Directive 20039EC which therefore says that language learning should be made possible through the regular school system, and if not through special conditions. In that sense, the article that regulates it, I think it's 32. It should be amended and complemented. A HDZ colleague was saying something about free legal aid. Although the Council of Europe Directive does not restrict the introduction of free legal aid in the first instance, I think we should consider it. Because the Croatian government, therefore, would show one of its motivations to help the poorest and poorest. And I think that would ultimately not cost too much money, nor would it significantly burden the Croatian budget, and that would actually make a significant contribution in a certain way to one social sensitivity, so if you want the possibility of a fairer procedure already in the first degree than that they do not have persons who need free legal assistance in the first part of the process. I also find it problematic that the Home Affairs Ministry, which is the first instance to decide on the request, should also be responsible for the issue of legal assistance. Since free legal aid will generally be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. And so I think that in Article 34, where the ministry is spoken and mentioned, that is, I think 2rd, 3rd, 6th, we should replace the "ministration" with "Justice Ministry" and in such a way it would not be possible to suspect that the Ministry of Interior is in conflict of interest because it decides both in the first proceedings and in the second, so it decides and complains. What seems very important to me, Col. Mlinarić said that this law allows urgency in the process. I don't think so. Perhaps according to this law, the only thing guaranteeing the urgency of the procedure is that it is illogical for me that the deadlines of the appeal are reduced to 5 days. Well, I think the minimum would be at least eight days if it wasn't 15. I don't really get it, because in a few articles I've seen this possibility of appeals for five days. And now something about the right to work. Therefore, the right to work is guaranteed to asylum seekers, i.e. those who seek this asylum application after a year. According to my knowledge and practice in the world, and I believe that this will be the case in Croatia and as far as I know and now it is a practice, these procedures never last more than a year. So I think that this formulation should be replaced if not by 3 that with at least 6 months, so it actually shows one efficiency and that these people will be able to work and that they will actually have guarantees that something will answer in six days. I have a few more remarks, and there will probably be opportunities around the amendments and individually. What I think is also very important is the question that is regulated, I think, in Article 54 of the asylum seekers' hearing. I don't think these hearings should be closed because in such a way, if they weren't closed, they would avoid any suspicions of any abuse or of any possible avoidance to give asylum to anyone. Normally, as far as personal data are concerned and what the Data Securitisation Act guarantees may remain a secret, but I think it's very important because of the openness and democracy of the law itself, so if you want this country too, that this law should be in the sense that the hearing is open. In the end, I believe that at least part of these remarks and proposals will be adopted as well as those that will still be made, because I think it is in everyone's best interest that we get as high-quality law as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90426	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90427	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. A fellow Lucin to you as a representative... You said that the Committee on Immigration, so I have to react on behalf of the members of the Committee on Immigration. [[You don't understand.]] The Committee on Immigration is not only Zdenka Babić Petricevic as president, there are 11 members of other members of the Croatian Parliament's parties, from the SDP, the Croatian Democratic Community, the HSP, the SDS, the HSS. All that we have discussed on the board and on the Assembly we have the right, which does not mean that our remarks will be accepted or that they are acceptable, but sir we are working on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which you have the right to do, so I am entitled to, and the rest of it, if I were to say it would be attributed to your personality, I am not interested in your personality.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90428	And what is the correcting of an incorrect quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90429	What I said, that he called the Immigration Committee... It's wrong. [[You don't understand.]] Because here are not only people I repeat once more, Zdenka Babić Petricevic but 11 members who work responsibly on the Committee and we are discussing in a democratic way the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90430	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90431	Let's say 209. You see, I didn't say a word to Mrs. Babic, or any member. I was talking about the board. I must admit that by reading that law, there are a number of formulations that are not in my throat that have nothing to do with my worldview and political commitment. But I don't really care about that story where, which is written, I didn't make it up. I took that page out and you can read it, so 44 pages where it's fine, I've highlighted everything. Therefore, Vice President, I ask you not to abuse the institute of correcting the wrong allegations, because I have not said anything wrong. I just read what it says and said what I think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90432	Okay. Let's move on. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90433	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The law is like this graphic and nomotechnically modern. At the beginning, there is an explanation of what is very important and what should be introduced as mandatory practice in all law-making, especially new legislative proposals, new topics, especially those that comply with European legislation. It should not be expected that all the people who take the law are experts and that the terms of the law will be interpreted correctly, most will not. So this is the first thing in the introductions of the law in the first article an explanation of the term is a very important thing, because it seems well done, the terms are well defined. We don't like the two global aspects of the law at the HNS club. In the first reading of the law, we discussed the very name of the law, so we found that asylum is a foreign matter of course used by the whole world, the whole of Europe. But foreign words are used in situations where a person wants to be emotionally distanced from something and when something is not close to you, when something has not grown to your heart, when something is not essential to you. The word asylum associates, at least associates me to an accommodation surrounded by a wire more or less forced, more or less under guard and so on. The Croatian Constitution does not know the word asylum. The Croatian Constitution knows the word refuge. The word sanctuary associates with something else. It associates with the place where the man they want to kill, who they threaten, who they persecute, who they do evil to, who they do wrong, and now he has come to a shelter somewhere where he can relax and put away where someone will guard his rights. I'm not sure we're deliberately using this foreign word in the formulations of this law. It is through the mass of provisions that the position of the legislators of the law that people who are coming to seek asylum is almost and the Priors are to blame for trying to manipulate them, now they will come very much here and they will seek asylum, I don't know what they will do to us, so the original task of this law is to prevent all these powerful asylum seekers who would come here from misusing this humanitarian institute. I'm not sure that's realistic to expect, it's never happened before, I don't think that in any recent future Croatia will become a country where asylum seekers will come in mass. Especially not because this regulation will prevent them from doing so. Some first - reading remarks have been accepted, some in part by some. For example, Article 22 on asylum rights has practically introduced free legal aid in the first-degree asylum decision. Azilants can get advice like that. It would seem good to me that it is decidently put in place as a provision of the law and that instead of advice in this article, the law states that asylum seekers have the right to assist in drawing up an application for asylum approval. So this free legal aid would be like one of the institutes we talk about a lot. And I guess now it's also in preparation, in the procedure of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, that institute would be introduced as a normal institute to which all people are entitled, in each of the proceedings. So not only in the second-degree procedure when they complain, but also in the first-degree procedure. It's about people who come out of terrible circumstances and they probably don't even know how to write an application right now and who can help him, how they're going to ask for it, what is asylum, they probably have no idea about it. He came out of some really big trouble. The article 24 discusses that an asylum seekers have the right to an interpreter if it is possible to provide in the language in which they speak or in which they are able. And there was one provision that we referred to in the first reading, that this translator should be the same sex. It is clear that people who seek asylum come from cultures that are our sides, where sexual equality does not exist, where people thus have different criteria for assessing sex contacts. However, they come to a European, courteous Croatia where other regulations apply. And here they are looking for shelter. So when they're looking for shelter here, then some of our civilizational norms that we respect, that we live by, that are built into our laws and in the complete code of conduct should be respected, which in other words means they have to, because they came here to respect and the fact that gender equality is one of the fundamentals of our society's functioning and that such provisions in the law don't seem to be meant to be. He's a well-defined minor, unlike first-reading law. A minor here is defined as a person up to 18, which wasn't in the first reading. It was according to some international conventions where it was treated differently. However, Croatian laws and the Croatian Constitution treats under 18 minors, so this law treats them and that's good. Article 32 discusses the rights of asylumees or persons on a subsidiary stay. One of these rights is the right to education after a year of stay, if he knows the language. So this law assumes that after a year of staying here, the asylum officer will know the Croatian language. I agree. You should know the Croatian language. In the last law, we said it took him four years. I also had an observation there that the deadline should, for a foreigner, take four years, that the deadline should be reduced to one year. Here's the deadline really set in, at the level of one year. I think that's a good thing and that the same thing should apply to that foreign law we just discussed. Just to mention the accelerated procedure that remained as one of the options for the functioning of this law although there were a lot of objections to it. I think that this accelerated procedure violates the fundamental human rights of anyone, anyone, whether a Croatian citizen or a foreigner or an apatride or anyone. Every person, every man deserves a normal ordinary procedure in front of the authorities of the state, no matter who it is. And I think that a system of accelerated procedures from this law as well as any other law should simply be removed. All in all, the law is fixed against the first reading. If any more changes were made that I spoke about earlier, the Croatian People's Party club could accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90434	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The word has a distinguished representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. Velimir Dance. ... This is... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Someone put this in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone's got it wrong. The Honorable Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90435	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow a few comments related to the final draft law and one part are related to some of the comments I made on behalf of the club in the right reading, which have not been accepted even though a large part has been accepted at the same time. Before that, I must say that the final proposal for a law is significant, significantly corrected and in this respect I am giving recognition to the applicant. But allow the first one to apply to Articles 22, 23, 73, 83, 88, and perhaps others, and it is related to the position of the Croatian Red Cross. Namely, the Croatian Red Cross is quite well positioned in, together with the UNHCR in an article that practically allows it to participate in providing assistance, related to the asylum seekers' shelter, related to Article 39, but completely unnatural. The Croatian Red Cross is a humanitarian organisation which is specifically founded, founded, and cooperates with the Government and NGOs, and in such a situation it would be completely inappropriate for the Croatian Red Cross to obtain information, data, a common form of work from the UNHCR, which is its pandan and not from its competent authorities of the state administration, particularly the ministry with which it works. So for example, I will only specify Article 22, which says the ministry will inform asylum seekers in the implementation of the asylum approval procedure, rights etc. UNHCR. Other organisations dealing with the protection of the rights of refugees should be inserted behind the UNCHR, the Croatian Red Cross and others. This is what I agree and others should be informed of, but should be referred to every time by the Croatian Red Cross as a special because it has, by international conventions, which are directly or indirectly on the asylum seekers of foreigners and refugees, and therefore, it would be good to do the part. I will make such amendments and let them in the process, so also in Articles 22 and 23, 73, 83 and 88. The second thing I wanted to point out is that once again, I would like to see, if this is actually possible, a matter that is related to Article 34 concerning the matter of legal aid. I must say that this part that is listed here as legal aid has been significantly reduced, because it is actually reduced to general information on the rights and obligations in the procedure, i.e. the lack of the right to free or legal assistance. It is questionable from the aspect of our Constitution and international convention, not from the aspect of this directive, but from the aspect of the international convention whether it is in accordance with the Constitution, the International Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms which we have adopted. Therefore, I will agree on several amendments to this issue, refer them to the procedure and hope that the Proposer will be able to discuss it. I ask the chairman to give us additional time so that an amendment can be given, let's say by today's break or I don't know until three and four o'clock in the afternoon, given that we are also discussing these texts rapidly and that we should do so so that the amendments don't turn out to be submitted after the debate is concluded. The second thing I wanted in particular to suggest that further discussion should be made is the question of the participation of persons in the hearing process, i.e. making a statement by an asylum or asylum seekers. I would like to remind you that under our Constitution, the Ombudsman has certain rights to protect citizens and to participate in the protection of citizens in relation to a certain position against state bodies or the conduct of state bodies in relation to the exercise of their rights. I have no idea how the Council Directive 2005/85EC would now be stronger than the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I really don't get it. I can really do this here if you want to quote that part in such a situation is really asking whether and to what extent we can and may actually allow that part, because it would not be right to say in the Constitution exactly Article 92 of the Public Attorney and Author of the Croatian Parliament that protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in the procedure before the state administration and... Public powers and are now being said within the framework of the institution of the Ombudsman will ensure the protection of the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in the procedures conducted in the Ministry of Defence, the armed forces, security services, the protection of citizens' rights, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For God's sake, it's not possible to say that they won't be able to attend when they ask you to, and I've made such an observation, you refused, among other things, and I think you should examine it again. I'll try to put the amendment on the subject, of course. And I have some other comments, such as, among other things, the remark relating to Article 56, where it is actually said that contrary to the principle of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which, among other things, determines or includes the principle of establishing material truth, it is generally narrowed down. That question should actually be further resolved. It couldn't stay like it was supposed to. I ask that we discuss this issue once again, and my colleague Vuljanic has also highlighted the question. I'm afraid it might be because of the so-called. an accelerated procedure to lead to a situation where the administrative procedure cannot identify the relevant facts that are relevant for the proper application of material law and, of course, in such a situation, cause certain disagreements and certain problems. And in Article 68, the question is actually this point 5. It should be deleted because otherwise this provision excludes the powers of the second-degree body when examining the refusal of the first-degree decision, therefore narrowing down, in fact, the powers of the second-degree body in relation to decision-making. The word shall be decided within the meaning of the provision of Article 6(1). A convention that stipulates that everyone has the right to enforce an independent and impartial court by law... Fairly and within a reasonable time, it is not respected here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the fact is that some of this matter should be further corrected because it makes no sense if we do not make it such that both these things, which will certainly, among other things, and because of the interests of NGOs and humanitarian organisations, in terms of protection, legitimate interest in the protection of human rights, and their countries, could potentially lead to the protection of such rights, trigger constitutional disputes over certain provisions. It doesn't make sense that this is happening, if we can and if we did in time, let's give ourselves time to agree on amendments, and when we agree to get such a time to try to think about them further and answer to the law to be as good as possible in the interest of all of us as possible. It's the same thing, and I don't know the example there, because it's mentioned that the administrative court's actions, or the administrative court's solution, have no legal remedy, so there's so-called. extraordinary legal medicines, etc., and in addition to that, when it comes to the rights of asylum seekers and foreigners to shelter, this is the Constitution guaranteeing the right, even the Constitutional Court in that segment may and should be decided through a constitutional action if the Constitution is guaranteed by law. So, we could work this out a little bit, too. I therefore propose not to delay the statement of the law, but only to give that, during the day, they may be made observations, or amendments to this Act, and that by Friday, the Proposer, or by the time the bill is decided, may be made manifest to them. Personally, I'm willing to make an effort to further correct the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90436	Thank you. In addition to consultations with government representatives, it is agreed that amendments under this item of the agenda can be submitted by the start of the afternoon session, up to 15 hours. The word has a distinguished representative, Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90437	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Asylum Act was passed in 2004, and the rules on asylum seekers and the Rules of Procedure of the Committee for the Resolution of Appeals and asylum seekers adopted the same year. Many shortcomings have been seen in the practice of applying the Asylum Act so far. The application of the existing law has seen discrepancies with the United Nations conventions, the relevant European Commission. This draft law complies with the latest Council of Europe directives on minimum standards for the granting and withdrawal of refugee status procedures in Member States and the Council Directive on minimum standards for the qualification of third-country nationals or stateless persons, as well as refugees who otherwise need protection. It is important to note that the proposed Law on Asylum in Croatia will give asylum to all persons persecuted for mental and physical persecution, including sexual violence, denial of judicial assistance and refusal of military service. According to the proposal of this Act, asylum will also be given to all vulnerable groups of minors, older and powerless persons, patients, single parents, as well as to all victims of torture or other physical, mental or sexual violence. The paper is in this bill that all foreigners seeking asylum in the MUP, and the MUP refuses to have the opportunity to appeal to the Asylum Committee which will form the basis of this Law. Thus, the appeal would not be decided by the administrative court as earlier proposed but would be a special body, i.e. the Asylum Commission, which would resolve complaints in the second degree after the first phase of the MUP. The second stage would therefore be decided by the Asylum Committee, and judicial protection would be achieved before the Administrative Court. In this proposal for a law, it will not happen that judges of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia create a Croatian asylum policy as previously proposed but will implement the Asylum Act, which is fine. This law provides asylum seekers with the right to work, extends the right to education, regulates free legal assistance in a secondary procedure, introduces the right to join the family of asylum seekers and foreigners under temporary and subsidiary protection. They also prescribe criminal sanctions for asylum seekers who abuse the provisions of restricted freedom of movement and violate the provisions of the domestic order. They are also guaranteed the right to an effective legal remedy before the court, which means making a decision within a reasonable period of time by an independent body. The adoption of this Asylum Act will bring Croatia's asylum system into line with the latest legislation and achievements of the European Union in the area of asylum. Effective implementation will ensure that foreign citizens and stateless persons can receive asylum in the Republic of Croatia unless they are persecuted for non-political crimes and activities contrary to fundamental international law. Furthermore, the application for asylum can be submitted at a border crossing or at a police station. And the request has been filed as a rule at the asylum seekers' shelter and the procedure has been going on ever since. That it was more than a good final proposal for the Asylum Act could best be seen at the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities where they were and participated in the debate of representatives of the international community and almost all the more significant NGOs. Almost everyone expressed their satisfaction that the proposer of the final proposal for the Asylum Act observed the observations of almost all parliamentary committees and many objections from NGOs. Many were full of praise for the detailed analysis of the comments arrived at the text of the bill in the first reading. Almost all agreed that the Final Proposal for the Asylum Act was important, and that the law is to the greatest extent possible in line with the European Union's asylum policy. The only objection I have on the Final Proposal of the Asylum Act, which the applicant in accordance with the directives went beyond the standards that some members of the European Union have installed in their laws. Many members of the European Union do not approve of asylum to persons of a particular social group based on common characteristics of sexual orientation. And perhaps we should add that this law as well as the Foreign Law would have been even more quality if we had passed the Migration Policy Act before to know what we needed. So in the end, I'm going to say it's a good and quality proposal. But I'm saying, if we had a clear strategy, we could've made it even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90438	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90439	Well, I'm glad that Rebic and I agree that before that, we should have discussed not the law but the migration strategy. But two things you might want to do for thinking. One thing is, then, it is the fact that the law stipulates that the benefit of asylum can be discussed, that is, the hearing at the border crossing. I think at the very least it's unserious. Why? Because we all understand when it's being discussed at the border crossing that it's not being discussed for asylum, it's actually an emergency procedure for refusing asylum. As far as I know, and I think the Secretary of State might also confirm there are few border crossings that have conditions that could be done at the border. So I even think it should be thrown out of this, out of the law. As for the same-sex communities. My colleague Rebić, I would like to remind you that unlike the countries you are referring to, Croatia has a law called the Law on the same-sex communities. If the principle is to maximum equalise the rights of foreigners, those who enter the Republic of Croatia according to domestic legislation and according to the domestic domicile population, then I think it would be a minimum for this to actually be incorporated into the law. And I don't really believe that the countries that don't have it, that have it will go away. It is in fact those countries that do not have that provision in view of the Council of Europe's directives, and the Commission itself, the European Union, will have to bring that into force.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90440	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90441	Well, my good colleague, Lucin, I think you'll agree that it's a good idea for an asylum seeker to enter the country. So how it will be implemented in law, but mostly in the shelter, so the deadline for asylum is running. As for this second section of the same-sex community, I think I say that many countries in the European Union have not put that into their own legislation. So the directives are neither all asylum laws are equal in the Member States of the European Union, and it seems to me that Croatia is also going to work above the European Union standards, I do not think that this is a bad thing. But let's say you agree with me that we have a strategy, that we have a law on migration policy, if we had brought it before, I say, for example, we know who would, we know who would have had the advantage of getting asylum, maybe to be banal I say maybe Croatia lacks a woman from 30 to 40 to get married whether, or vice versa. So not only this, but I think the strategy would greatly improve and this law would have been much better quality if we had a strategy before, that is, the Law on Migration Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90442	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90443	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Even though I was in the opening today when I spoke individually about the Foreign Law, I repeat once again, on this very day, we are discussing the world day of refugees two important laws in the Croatian Parliament, it is the Law on Foreigners and the Final Proposal of the Asylum Act. As I said about the Law on Foreigners, so I am also talking about the Law on Asylum, Croatia from its history and about one law and in the interest of the national interest of the Republic of Croatia must specifically discuss and think about something. Man, you ain't got no duty, you ain't got nothing to do with nobody else, you can't do to yourself, or you can't do to yourself, or you can't do to others. There are no countries in the world where there were no Croatian asylum seekers. Fate brought him to many lands, where they were able, where they lived by the laws of the receiving countries, where they died and unfortunately were neither buried in the country where they were born, where they wanted it because they did not allow it. Although regarding the Asylum Act, I thought I might speak differently, but here I will speak more today for the reason that I am very sensitive to this law, human, sensitive, friendly, however you will, if I choose anything else, then you will think that I will appeal to what I do not have the right to do in the Croatian Assembly and will once again respond to Mr. Lucin as a representative. You have read on the page of the proposed law 44, concerns of the Committee on Immigration regarding this law. Those fears were human and we have the right to do so. None of the members of the Committee on Immigration I repeat, which consists not only of Zdenka Babić Petricevic, the other representatives of HDZ and other parties did not make these remarks out of hate and for the first time, and last time when you were a pronoun on behalf of the Government of this law, I spoke with one great responsibility if you want with feelings that I do not hide when we adopt this law and thank God that Croatia has become a sovereign state that we can afford what we could not even imagine in 50 years here and today on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club Mr Mlinarić was just one example of the life of political asylumaries outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia from a democratic Europe and the world one of the political immigrants I will mention it, Mr Bruno Busic. After his statement of united Croatians and united Croats, Croatia alone happened to him, but he did not experience freedom and what happened to many Croatians was what happened to counterpart Lucin in Europe and the world. He was killed for justice, but God dear Jesus was killed for justice, and people today are killed for justice. There are certain objections to this Asylum Act. I say it so that it does not happen by chance that because of the indeterminateness that the real asylum seekers who apply for asylum tomorrow in the Republic of Croatia will be allowed to stay in one of the special accommodations without any rights as it has happened everywhere in the world. There were Croatian asylum seekers who waited 6, 10, 20 years and did not just because of the indetermination of the law on the countries concerned, receive a final solution as an asylumist and therefore, for these reasons, gentlemen on behalf of the promoters in Article 2 see the definition of the spouse. I think this definition should be better strengthened by a spouse in accordance with the Croatian applicable Family Law, that is my human remark. And I repeat for these reasons that someone should not happen to be in one accommodation waiting for a solution negatively or positively for 20 years and thus be an open prisoner. In Article 2, in the definition of relatives, and in the slopes. We must consider the origin of asylum seekers. It is difficult to identify relatives in a flat line until the third degree of kinship and it is really impossible to identify relatives in a lateral line up to the third degree of relatives. That's my human remark. And today we talked about a certain social group here because there is a certain social group under the law, in the Asylum Act, please see if you can better define this social group, because through this word a special social group, which I have given the amendment to the Foreign Law, can get asylums and those social groups that have no right under either law to receive neither political, nor asylum nor work permit nor residence permit, nor even an entry visa into the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, when it comes to the Asylum Act, all other definitions are well defined. Only in Article 2 of a minor child who did not start his own family and depends on his parents whether he was born in a marriage, out of marriage, or adopted, try to define this sentence a little better. To me, there's a bit of a misunderstanding because it's said that lawyers write laws and write laws but try to define that what I warn from such and similar definitions in the proposed Asylum Act is not waiting for a negative or positive solution for a full 10 or 20 years. I accept the proposal for an asylum law. I'm sure my colleagues have made their remarks, and I don't have any other objections and I'm not going to repeat those who are the same to me as my other predecessors. I am pleased that Croatia is bringing and having an asylum law. If we were not a sovereign state, we would never be able to help those who have helped the Croatian people for 50 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90444	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90445	Thank you very much. I would like to correct the quote that Mrs Babic-Petrichevic quoted me as saying or saying, I would like to say what I was going to say. I was actually going to say what I said. I just said it doesn't make much sense to me that the Immigrant Committee is bringing these attitudes. To try to clarify or redefine the issue of nations, other groups, families and nothing else. For me, it wouldn't be unclear or illogical if, say, the National Security Committee. It's either the board or the Labour Committee. I'd understand that. But it's not clear to me that the immigration committee did it. So, and with everything else, I agree. And I'm actually saying there's no need, there's no need for us to actually bring any other solutions. We have laws, but you can't just rely on the Family Act. You must respect the Law of Same-Sex Communities. If you think Yeah... [[Well, that's like...]] We need to have a launch initiative to shut down. [[The speaker doesn't understand, speakers speak out loud.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90446	You're not correcting any incorrect quote under that plate correcting an incorrect quote you're replicating and what now? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, and now we're gonna...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90447	... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90448	Yeah, that's what I just said.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90449	Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. counterpart Lucin, I didn't say at all what you were complaining about and I repeat the concerns of the Committee on Immigration they were human and we have the right to what doesn't mean, which doesn't mean that we don't have the right to these remarks. But I've concluded that I'm glad we're passing the Asylum Act. You have the right to speak of some articles as you have said. I have the right to speak as I said, but I'm done. Thank God that the sovereign state today came into a situation to pass the Law of Asylum and to return to those countries and to those who for 50 years gave a roof over the head of many Croatian political and non-emigrants.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90450	Thank you. I'll take this as a replica and a reply to the replica. And in the future, I will not allow abuse of the instrument to correct the incorrect quote for replication and response to replication. The word has an esteemed representative, Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90451	Dear Secretary of State, let me briefly participate in this debate on the Asylum Act. I think we should accept this law. There were a lot of arguments here, which go in this direction, but I think the law should be improved a little bit, perfected and that I primarily think about developing a legal aid institute both in this law and in the Republic of Croatia. The right to free legal assistance is a prerequisite for the exercise of the right to access to court and other bodies which decide on subjective civil law. So the right to a fair trial as well as to revive the constitutional principle of equality for everyone before the law. And ban discrimination by race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, birth, education, social position or other characteristics. So that's one definition of the Institute of Free Legal Assistance. In fact, for the first time, we could say the introduction of a free legal aid institute related to asylum seekers. But in our opinion, so we've already heard arguments and remarks about it we think that this scope should be much greater. Unfortunately, Croatia does not have a special law on free legal aid which concerns us and wonders us. As the Club of Representatives of Regional Parties, we have referred these days to the parliamentary procedure precisely the law on free legal aid. We wonder why the government didn't do it anymore because we know that in 2005, the government itself made its final or final version of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. So also in this government version, and also in our version that we are also presenting, which we have proposed, so we have also referred to the parliamentary procedure. We are saying that the right to free legal assistance is achieved by all natural persons located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and particularly by victims of human trafficking, asylum seekers, asylum seekers or refugees in the Republic of Croatia who are unable to pay the costs of legal assistance. So in... The law on free legal aid also includes asylum seekers. asylum seekers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're still looking for the i.e. We propose that free legal aid be implemented as the right to general information on rights and obligations, initial legal advice, legal advice, legal assistance in writing, representation before all courts, administrative bodies, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, international courts, international organisations and also legal assistance for the peaceful settlement of the dispute. In the Asylum Act, Article 33 ... So three forms of receiving free legal aid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are general information on the rights and obligations of asylum seekers in the process, assistance in drawing up an appeal and representation before the Commission. In my opinion, therefore, it is too narrow the right to legal aid for free only for these few provisions, so we agree with the proposal of the Croatian Legal Centre to either comply with the future Law on... to help or to make it so that some important,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] install into this Act, and primarily legal advice, legal assistance in writing and representation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, asylum seekers would be protected from our court, so especially in cases where they do not have the means to pay some court costs, and most asylum seekers are in such a state. The same problem is that the ministry in the same article says that the aid referred to in paragraph 1 of the subparagraph... This article may be carried out by lawyers, lawyers and lawyers from associations registered to carry out legal assistance with which the ministry shall conclude a contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is exactly where the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which speaks of which it introduces these associations into the system of free legal assistance, therefore as associations capable of providing such services or intermediation. Today, the law makes it impossible for such associations to work, they actually work past the law, and they are often hit by barristers who report them for unfair competition. I mean, I don't know how much it's possible for the Asylum Act to make it possible for that association, if there's no law on free legal aid that regulates it that way. That's why the appeal goes to your ministry, too, so you might want to send a memo or a question to the Justice Department about what's with the law on free legal aid because I think it would be very good if those two laws went to... and that we simply have all the terms, therefore, procedures and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's it. I welcome this Law, but it says with hope and a desire to clear up and apply in certain laws. There are no laws, and some existing legal solutions actually restrict the functioning of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90452	Thank you. Finally, State Secretary Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90453	Thank you very much. Here I must express my satisfaction with the almost consensual support of all the participants in the debate of this Law. Of course, all of you contributed to this by making observations about the Law of First Reading, which you yourself said was largely adopted. This adoption and preparation of this Law has been given a great deal of importance. We have included in its creation and the non-governmental sector, UNHCR and all other institutions that have been able to contribute to ensure that this protection of these vulnerable groups of foreigners is regulated in the best possible way in accordance with the highest European and world traditions and standards. I just want to say that Croatia steps 7 miles in the adoption of the highest standards of respect for human rights and the protection of freedom. In fact, we are all still witnessing together that the former government was having trouble finding a location, or asylum seekers' facility. She had these problems, and this government at the beginning of the mandate, and we all still remember those ugly scenes when former Minister Mlinaric tried to establish communication with the local community about the organisation of the asylum seekers' centre and therefore from this place on the eve of World Refugee Day and I am sending and thanking the city of Kutini and the local self-government that has enabled us, in cooperation with us, to create a Center for Asylum Searchers by the highest standards and there and today, the Ambassador of the European Commission, Mr Degert, is celebrating, or marking the Day of Refugees in the Republic of Croatia. All this evidence is that there is a centre based there without any affairs, scandals, no resistance, no xenophobic statements, no other turns out that Croatia is really stepping 7 miles in the adoption of the highest standards. And this debate in the Assembly today is also a contribution because we will certainly get a law that will also be in line with the best practice and the highest standards of the European Union, as well as world practices on the protection of these vulnerable groups of foreigners. I also absolutely and immediately agreed to extend the deadline for submitting amendments because it also seems so ad hoc that one part of the amendment, i.e. the objection, has a foothold, we will consider these amendments and be sure that we will accept everything that will bring further improvement and this already good law. That is why I thank you and I am sure that we have all done a good job together through the debate today on these two important laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90454	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90455	Final proposal for an asylum law. The plate. We have two amendments that were brought after the deadline. It is for us to discuss and vote on the amendments of the government that have been brought after the deadline. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 83 for, 15 against, 2 abstentions. So we'll vote and argue. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90456	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. ... the meaning of the term "azil" means: "Azil is a protection which establishes a constitutional provision on the provision of shelter to a stranger in the Republic of Croatia by means of a solution of the interior ministry to meet asylum requirements in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of this Law.". Article 33 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that foreign citizens and stateless persons can receive sanctuary in the Republic of Croatia unless they are persecuted for non-political crimes and activities... this alignment with constitutional terminology.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90457	I'm opening a debate. I close the debate, I vote on Amendment 1. Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. Score. 90 for, 5 against, 3 abstentions, it became an integral part of the Law. 2nd Amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90458	So article 108 is amended as "This law enters into force on 1 January 2008 as the previous deadline has already expired".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90459	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on Amendment 2. Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 88 for, against 8, 2 abstentions. It becomes an integral part of the law. It's a table of amendments to the MPs. Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90460	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90461	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Same amendment to the second MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90462	It is accepted but it is necessary to delete the words and it says: "A relative in... if it is unquestionably found that he lived in a joint household with an asylumist, a foreigner under subsidiary protection or a foreigner under temporary protection.".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90463	I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90464	Amendment adopted in that amended form. 3rd representative, Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90465	It's unacceptable. Definition in accordance with Council Directive 2004/138/EC
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90466	Amendment withdrawn. 4th representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90467	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90468	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 5th Representative Furia Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90469	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90470	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th representative of Shima Lučina,
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90471	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90472	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 7th representative of Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90473	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90474	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90475	Retracted. 8 of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90476	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90477	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 9th representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90478	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90479	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 10th of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90480	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90481	It's an integral part of the law. 11th also representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90482	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90483	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 12th Representative Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90484	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90485	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 13. also vice president Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90486	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90487	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 14th representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90488	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90489	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 15th of the same representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90490	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90491	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 16th of the same representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90492	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90493	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 17 MPs, Vice President Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90494	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90495	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 18th Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90496	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90497	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90498	Retracted. 19th representative of Shima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90499	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90500	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 20th of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90501	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90502	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 21st Representative Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90503	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90504	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 22nd representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90505	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90506	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 23rd representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90507	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90508	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 24th of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90509	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90510	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 25th representative of the same Sima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90511	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90512	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 26 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90513	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90514	Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 27. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90515	It was accepted with nomotechnical adjustment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90516	Yeah. Which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90517	An asylum seekers came from a safe third country where there is a link between asylum seekers and the country on which it would be reasonable to expect... [[Because of the presidential bell, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90518	On behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities Nomotechnical Adjustment. There's a vote to vote on. Who, then, is this amendment in this changed form? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 102 votes. This amendment has been adopted unanimously in the amended form. 28th Representative Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90519	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90520	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 29th of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90521	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90522	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 30th Agent Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90523	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90524	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 31st of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90525	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90526	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. 32nd representative of Sima Lučina.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90527	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90528	Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. And 33 representatives of Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90529	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90530	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Thank you, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final proposal of the Asylum Act. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 84 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 7 against the adopted Asylum Act as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90531	We move to the 3rd item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 696 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. ... You received the act by mail. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary, Mr. Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90532	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the Parliament. You will have before you during this day and the next 6 final drafts of the law on amendments and additions to the laws in the field of intellectual property. Intellectual property in modern economic systems is a driving and developmental force as you know and next, the Republic of Croatia is rapidly developing its system. We end up with a national strategy for the development of intellectual property from 2005 to 2010 which will be implemented through these laws in these additions and amendments until the end. Special attention in this area shall be paid to the Member States of the European Union and, consequently, to the pre-accession negotiations with the Republic of Croatia, intellectual property allocated in a separate chapter. That's Chapter 7. The right of intellectual property, these negotiations were opened during the analysis of screening and in the preparation of negotiating positions to detail were examined and discussed all issues of compliance with the acquis and on the broadest basis. What needs to be pointed out is that it can generally be said that even the applicable rules were adopted in 2003 at the time of their adoption were in high compliance with the acquis and, in particular, with respect to the type and extent of the rights guaranteed. And why do you need further coordination? It concerns mainly instruments for improving the implementation and protection of intellectual property, primarily what I said within the realisation and our national strategy, which is important to highlight. But also on the changes that will take place in this area in the European Union itself, and on the regulation of certain specific legal regimes in the transitional period following the accession of the common European market. Now, in particular, I would only briefly say about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. It is now fully in line with Croatian law in the field of copyright and related rights with the acquis of the European Union, including those provisions that will only be applicable from the moment of Croatia's accession to full membership in the European Union. And these are signs of complements consistent with these negotiating positions and now here, details we're ready if you want... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90533	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Education, science and culture, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90534	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State! Here, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 35th session of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. Following the adoption of the Copyright and Related Rights Act, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the implementation and protection of intellectual property rights entered into force. This is the basic reason why the pre-accession negotiations set out the parts of the laws to be amended in order for the Republic of Croatia to take the same degree of protection of copyright and related rights as in the Member States of the European Union at the time of accession to the European Union. In accordance with the European Union Directive, the concept of adequate compensation is drawn up, and the issue of civil legal protection is enhanced, in particular by the introduction of provisional measures for the provision of evidence, provisions on the supply of evidence and the request for data. The proposed amendments and amendments fully align Croatian legislation in the area of copyright and related rights with the acquis of the European Union, including provisions which will only be applicable from the time of accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. The Committee unanimously reached the next conclusion. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights under an urgent procedure in the form prepared by the Proposer. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90535	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90536	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues! We have the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which was passed in 2003, and this law itself is actually a new de facto law already passed on the basis of European legislation and which already respects the traditions, values and standards of European legislation. However, at the time of its adoption, it is obvious that some things have been missed and that we now have before us the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in Amendments and Supplements and have resulted in consequences, as a result of our accession process to the European Union as a process of negotiations where we must clearly introduce certain standards which apply in European legislation so that tomorrow, when the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union and our legislation is fully compatible with the legislation of the European Union. What to say fundamentally on the amendments and additions to this law. It is fundamental and essential that amendments and additions achieve one significantly better legal protection than the current law. It is also in any case to welcome the Croatian Democratic Community club, so it will support the bill. If we analyse the specific things that are going on in this law, as has already been said in advance, the concept of adequate compensation is defined in a more quality way. This is the damage that must be paid to authors and copyright holders in legal traffic if such rights are violated. So, so far, the definition of that damage has been a little flawed. However, it is now explicitly said that an appropriate fee will be made, since it is a compensation, which must be given fairly in legal traffic, taking into account the likely damage that the author is experiencing, when his work is reproduced without his approval for private or other own use, the application of technical protection measures and other circumstances which may have an impact on the correct measurement of the form and the amount of the corresponding compensation. Therefore, much more precisely defined is this damage compensation that needs to be paid. It is therefore absolutely certain that the application of European directives and European documents here is much more precise and clear. We also have in Article 9 relating to Article 98 of the existing law, we have a regulated situation if the authors or other persons who have applied technical measures to protect access to the copyright or use of the copyright or who have the power to remove them do not act in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, the person who finds that, on the basis of some of the provisions laid down in Article 82 to 87 of the Law, is authorised to use the copyright without the authorisation of the author, and therefore, because of those technical protection measures, it is not possible to be used, and now these provisions open up the possibility that these technical measures in one court procedure by bringing an action to be taken down and to remove that protection in order for that copyright to be used. In addition, certain changes relate to the Council of Experts which performs and intervenes with regard to the conclusion of a contract on cable retransmission between broadcasting organisations and cable operators, and to the provision of copyright and use of the contract in accordance with the limit set out in Article 82 to 87 of this Act, between the person claiming that under the law it is authorised to be used by copyright without the author’s approval or without the author’s approval and without the payment of compensation and by the author himself. So a certain intervention in possibly possible, a possible dispute between the author himself and the person who thinks he has the right to use his copyright. We also have much more quality here in Article 19, which refers to articles 185 and the article that are being changed is Article 185a, 85b and c. that refers to temporary measures for infringement of law. Temporary measures to provide evidence, obtain evidence during litigation proceedings. We in our litigation system, in our civil system and in our executive system have already built a system of temporary measures for violation of law. This means if someone who feels that his right is violated has the right to ask the court to take certain, certain actions to protect his right. Here, these articles are precisely specified by the fact that this applies as well as those temporary measures that we have in the litigation process and the executive. Here we get another new, new wide range of these rights that can be used. What does it mean in the litigation process and in the executive procedure? I only have to admit that, in this Article 185, its paragraph 2 provides the definition that, at the request of the holder of the right under this law which makes it likely that his right is injured in carrying out economic activity with the aim of obtaining economic and economic benefits and that he is threatened with irreparable damage in addition to the provisional measures referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the court may also determine the removal of property or property owned by non-injurious insurance. It seems to me that it's a little difficult to implement a provision relating to these properties. The movement is still how we can take away you know, but if it's about taking away real estate, we're already getting into the property rights that are protected by the Constitution, and I think it's really hard to predict one of these, taking away someone's property rights is only possible in the process that we've regulated by the Law on empowerment where the fee is paid is whether, we also have to change in land books ourselves, the holder of property rights so that I think the promoter needs to think for himself whether or not to go with his own amendment to go with, go with the redefination of this article because in this way it seems to me that it won't be possible to apply it. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. The law definitely offers much more precise, much clearer and better legal protection to copyright holders as well as copyright users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90537	Thank you. I'm closing the debate in the morning session. The sequel is at 3:00, and the word has a distinguished representative, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. We'll continue with the afternoon session. The word has a distinguished representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90539	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear gentlemen of the proposers, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which absolutely needs to be supported. In this regard, I would like to point out that within the framework of the legal rules governing intellectual property rights, it is certainly part of the copyright segment that is one of the most important parts. Only copyright in the most general sense can we view as a total of the authorisation of the holder, i.e. the copyright holder, which we can divide into two parts. First, copyright and second copyright. Copyright and property law can be defined as the exclusive right of use of the copyright. So the author can grant property rights stemming from his work to others with or without compensation. The author of the second special contract lays down the right to use the copyright in terms of establishing a specific mandatory legal relationship. As regards copyright as a personal right, it is contained in the fact that, on the one hand, the rights of the author to be recognised as the creator of a particular literary, scientific or artistic work on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is the right of the author to determine when he will present his work to the public, hence the right to publish first as well as the right to oppose deforming, mutilation and other changes to the author's work itself. It is very important to stress that these rights are insufferable and strictly personal, and after the death of the authors, they can be cared for by heirs and by the law of course of a particular organization. It is important or particularly important to point out that the law defines or in fact fully aligns Croatian copyright legislation and other related rights with the acquis of the European Union, including those provisions which will be applicable only from the moment of accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the European Union. As regards the specific legal provisions that are being amended or supplemented, it is up to me to highlight the specific following three concepts, i.e. the following three elements. First of all, it's about defining the concept of "responsible compensation." Second, the possibility to give other persons the authority to use the author's work. Third, determining the competence of the Council of Experts with regard to the conclusion of a contract on the so-called so-called ‘expert’. cable retransmission. Therefore, the definition of the concept of "responsible compensation" is understood as compensation which must be fairly granted to rightholders in order to adequately compensate them when their protection cases are used without their authorisation for reproduction in terms of private or other own use, taking into account the degree of application of technical protection measures and correcting the criterion of possible damage to other elements which may be affected by the correct measurement of the form and the amount of the corresponding compensation. Except for these three elements, I find it particularly important to point out the next two things. First, according to the principles of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions in order to protect and promote the diversity of cultural expressions, it is proposed, and should be supported, for associations collectively exercising copyright and related rights to the establishment of the Fund for the Encouraging Cultural and Art Creation. The amount shall be determined by the associations and by which they decide on the allocation of funds. It should also be stressed, and with regard to civil and legal protection of copyright and related rights, certain articles that prescribe civil and legal protection have been elaborated, deleted and amended and complemented by provisions on provisional measures, in view of the violation of the right, the provision of evidence, the supply of evidence during the litigation process and, of course, the request for the supply of data. In line with the fact that this segment of protection of intellectual property, as I have initially said, is a very important segment when we look at therefore intellectual property, given that it is about amendments to those institutes not only I would dare say in terms of harmonising our standards with standards already in force in the European Union but because they are in a better, more precise and clearer way to regulate these institutes that I was talking about absolutely this bill should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90540	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of the Great Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90541	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will talk about copyright, we must point out how copyright and related rights are key to human creation because they provide authors with incentives in the form of recognition and cash compensation, and on the other hand they are provided with certain security that their works can be distributed without fear of unauthorized multiplication or piracy, and if they do so, they are provided with certain copyright and legal protection. In a legal sense, copyright is used to cover only the right of authors of literary and scientific or artistic works. This is the right of the largest private-legal power of absolute action, which gives direct authority in relation to the intellectual creation of the author's work. How can we from this debate the copyright holder has a kind of monopoly over exploiting his work in the same way as the owner of a matter decides on its use. Of course, just as the owner of a thing can sell and the author can give others the right to property exploitation of his copyright. The car acquires copyright by means of an act of achievement. Unlike other forms of intellectual property that we will also talk about today, such as patents, no formal copyright registration procedure is required. The author becomes the holder of the copyright by achieving this work. In principle, the legal order recognises two types of authorisation under copyright. These are copyright and property rights and copyright, i.e. personal rights. Copyright in the first row is the right of the author to be recognised as the creator of a particular literary, scientific or artistic work. Furthermore, it is also the right of the author to determine when he will present his work to the public, it is so-called. the right to publish first, as well as the right to oppose deformities, mutilations and other amendments to their work. These rights are intolerable and strictly personal, and following the death of the author, heirs and the law of a particular organization can take care of them. On the other hand, copyright and property rights are exclusively the right to use the copyright. The author may also grant property rights stemming from his work to others with or without compensation. As part of international private law, copyright and related rights have a prominent international legal feature, however, as part of the internal law, each country also adopts its own internal regulations governing this area. In Croatia, this area is regulated by the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which was adopted in 2003. Following the adoption of this Act in the Croatian Parliament on Copyright and Related Rights, the Directive of the Copyright Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the protection of intellectual property rights entered into force and the reason for the pre-accession negotiations to establish parts of the laws to be amended in order to take the same degree of protection of copyright and related rights in the Member States of the European Union at the time of accession of the European Union. In line with these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, those questions he spoke of are being settled, so I would not repeat them, and my colleague Tomljanovic, and also on behalf of the club, Bosnjakovic. Finally, such amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights are fully in line with Croatian law in the field of copyright and related rights with the acquis of the European Union, including those provisions which will only be applicable from the moment of accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the European Union. That is why this Law should therefore be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90542	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90543	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright Act. We have the same government amendments after the deadline. A few, a few things, not much. Who's in favour of voting on government amendments after the deadline? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 91 for, 10 against. So they'll be voted on. State Secretary Drazen Vicic Topic. Please explain Amendment 1. Governments are still following, but you're trying very briefly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90544	Amendment 1 simply extends to the entire European and economic space, and there are not certain words here to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90545	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 1. Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 90 for, 10 against, one abstention. It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90546	Amendment 2. The government's pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90547	The other government is withdrawing the amendment and it's as if it wasn't there. Representative Tadic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90548	Of all these amendments that you have submitted, this amendment that you have withdrawn has made sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90549	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90550	Because he guaranteed that arbitration would establish the price list.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90551	We can't discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90552	That's what HSP has insisted for years, and when you finally put it in your amendments, that's why you're pulling it out today. That's really pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90553	We don't have a debate. Amendment 3. Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90554	Amendment 3 refers to Article 19 and simply refers to the addition of Article 185 in order to prevent any ambiguity on the issue when the court is obliged to submit a solution on a provisional basis... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90555	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of Amendment 3. Government? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 96 for, 3 against, 3 abstentions. It becomes an integral part of the Law. And Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90556	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90557	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 4. Government. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 96 for, 5 against, one abstention and the 4th amendment of the government becomes an integral part of the law. Amendments to the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90558	There are eight of them, and they're all being accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90559	All eight are accepted, becoming an integral part of the law. Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90560	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90561	I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright Act. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 80 votes for, 3 abstentions and 12 against the proposed law in the text as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90562	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Geographical Origin Marks and Product and Service Origin Marks, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 697 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Education, Science and Culture, Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Mr. Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very brief. So we have the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Geographical Origin Marks and Origin of Products and Services. As many MPs have already mentioned, it is also about harmonising with the European acquis, but of course the realisation of our strategy, which we have the National Intellectual Property Strategy from 2005 to 2010. Protection of geographical indications and designations of origin of products and services which, in the jurisdiction of the State Institute of Intellectual Property, are governed by the Law on the Protection of Geographical Origin Marks and the designations of origin of products and services and by the Regulations on the Protection of Geographical Origin Marks. It's very important to point out. In addition, in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, however, the geographical indications and the designation of origin for food, a very alcoholic drink of wine, so you know that we have the Food and Wine Act with the corresponding rules. Therefore, the subject of the protection of this Act to geographical indications and to the designations of origin of products and services are only those markings which are not the advantage of those previous laws. So this is simply to say complementing already existing and harmonising, meaning the Food Act, the Wine Act and other regulations that are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Here, it's the same principle that we already said about that previous law, about this whole sequence that's going to be 6... He owns it, does he? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90564	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to? The Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90565	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 35th session on 14 June, the Committee on Education and Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Geographical Origin Marks and Tags of origin of products and services with the Final Proposal of the Law. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. By law on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin, the "National Journal" No. 173/2003 and an appropriate sublegal act as relevant national contracts which Croatia has approached are regulated by those issues which, in the jurisdiction of the State Intellectual Property Institute. In the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association process, the Republic of Croatia is required to normally ensure the level of protection of intellectual property that exists in the European Union. The proposal to amend and supplement that law also achieves consistency in the remaining issues in which existing solutions differ from legal instruments at European Union level, and in particular in matters of civil and legal protection of geographical indications and the designation of origin of production services, as well as in the new Institute of Appeal for first-degree decisions in the administrative procedure. The Committee unanimously reached the following conclusion: it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Code of Geographical Origin and the designations of origin of products and services by emergency procedure in the form prepared by the applicant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90566	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90567	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director. Let me begin by saying that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept such a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Geographical Origin Tags and designations of origin of products and services. Since the end of the 19th century, significantly different legal origins have been possible to protect the market-recognized names of products that originate and originate from a specific geographical region to prevent and replace other products under the same name. While such rules are granted to producers of certain products by a kind of monopoly on the use of the name of the regions in their products in theory, such use is considered to have an excuse to ensure a high level of product quality and thus to protect consumer rights. For these reasons, the legal protection of designations of origin and geographical indications, i.e. geographical indications, is similar to that provided by certain types of intellectual property. Especially when there's a difference. Such regulations, as we have already stated, restrict the use of geographical indicators to products containing materials of origin and with a specifically defined product and meet the prescribed standards. Croatian regulations and Croatian legislation thus define a geographical indication as the name of a geographical area or any other sign indicating that a product or service originates in a specific geographical area and that it has a certain quality and characteristics attributed to it. On the other hand, the newer Croatian regulations in line with the legal acquis of the European Union regulate the designations of origin as a newer and stricter form of protection of origin. The designations of originality shall mean the essential or exclusive impact of specific natural and human factors of a specific geographical whole. Based on these influences, the specific quality of such products and services is protected. The protection of geographical indications as well as the designation of origin as intellectual property enables the effective prevention of their abuse or unauthorised use. These marks allow for greater market value and their effective protection benefits both producers and consumers since it strengthens the competition. The protection of geographical indications and the designation of origin of products and services in the Republic of Croatia is in the jurisdiction of the State Intellectual Property Office. It was governed by the 2003 Code on the Protection of Geographical Origin Marks. Under the Stabilisation and Association Process of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure the level of protection of intellectual property that exists in the European Union, which is regulated by certain legal instruments of the European Community. In view of the fact that since 1 January 2004, in the Republic of Croatia, the protection of geographical indications and the designation of origin has been applied, the said Law on the protection of geographical indications which in many ways already comply with the acquisition of the European Union, this law requires full harmonisation of Croatian legislation in the area of the right of protection of geographical indications and designations of origin in these matters which are fundamental to, as regards, the law on which we are discussing today. This is primarily the introduction of the right of appeal against decisions of the institution and the provision on civil and legal protection of geographical indications and designations of origin of products and services. The proposed Law amending and supplementing the law will achieve full compliance with the European acquis in the area of industrial ownership and in the achievement of the precondition for the application of new, more transparent, more undertaking and efficient system of implementation of the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin of products and services. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community once again supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90568	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vladimir Stengl.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90569	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues! At a time when, thanks to the development of technology, any product, in any part of the world, in any form, in unlimited quantities, it is necessary to have the Code of Geographical Origin and the designations of origin of products and services, in order to ensure maximum protection of indigenous products. Otherwise it may happen to us to say Paška or Leprechaun lace come in containers from some Far East country or who knows where. The applicable law is from 2003, and it is complemented by this proposal. It should also be said that the subject of protection under this law is not products whose protection of originality and geographical origin has been resolved, regulated by the Food Act, the Wine Act and other regulations in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. However, when it comes to these products, the number of these products in the territory of the Republic of Croatia could be impressive. Under the Stabilisation and Association Process of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia is obliged under Article 71 of the Agreement to ensure that the level of protection of intellectual property is similar in the European Union and is regulated by certain legal instruments of the Union. The law on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin of products and services shall apply in the Republic of Croatia from 1 January 2004. It is also broadly consistent with the acquis of the European Union but also requires certain amendments and additions to that existing law, in order to guarantee the same degree of protection of geographical indications and designations of origin of products and services as well as in the Member States of the European Union. The basic issues which these amendments and the amendments to the law are governed by: the introduction of the right to appeal against the decision of the Institute, more specifically the Institute of Intellectual Property and not as a boredom in the applicable law when there was only the possibility of an unsatisfactory party to press charges to the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. It shall be set up for this purpose under this proposal and the Board of Appeal. Other provisions on civil and legal protection of geographical indications and designations of origin of products and services, provisions for which holders or users of protected geographical indications and designations of origin of products and services in the Republic of Croatia will enjoy the same civil and legal protection as those of holders or users of those designations in the Member States of the European Union. And we certainly want and we need to ensure protection, we need to ensure and protect ourselves from, say, the possibilities that I already said in the introduction, that Lepoglavska or Paška lace appears from the container... From the Far East, to do so with Slavonic gold, then from the sphere of souvenirs, colorful pumpkins. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There'd be a lot to pick up. It may be necessary to protect, or it may be necessary to protect, both Seask and Sinjska Alka. It could happen that the Comic Falcus is working somewhere in a small shipyard. There's one with us at the Danube Charengrad Chick, etc. The Republic of Croatia, its premises are certainly far away, far more products and also services it is very interested in being protected from geographical origin, product and service origin, to protect them from the highest European standards. It's in the end line and necessity. This law does so with these amendments and additions and allows and therefore we support the proposal to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90570	Thank you. The word is Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. And the word has a distinguished representative, Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90571	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Director of the Bureau, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tags of geographical origin and the designations of origin of products and services is one of the sets of laws in addition to the Laws amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright, Patent, Industrial Design, Mark of which we have discussed or will discuss at this session and refer to the regulation of intellectual property rights. The right of intellectual property shall include a system of legal instruments governing the way intellectual property is acquired and the means of protection against its unauthorised use. When we talk about intellectual property, there is still a low level of awareness that intellectual property is the same as any other form of ownership, although it is inexplicable and the fruit of human intelligence, certain ideas, inventions, creations, performances. Intellectual property has all the characteristics of property. It can be used as an asset, bought, sold, donated, replaced and inherited. As regards this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Geographical Origin Tags and designations of origin of products and services proposed by an urgent procedure, I will refer to several important circumstances and reasons why I will support this law. First of all, it is as I have already said about one of the whole set of laws that regulates the field of intellectual property and bring them in line with the acquis of the European Union. This fulfils the commitments made under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to the European Union in which the Republic of Croatia has committed to ensuring the level of protection of intellectual property that exists in the countries of the European Union. It is important to stress that the existing Law on the Protection of Geographical Origin Marks and the designations of origin of the products and services of 2003 applicable from 1 January 2004 is to a very high extent in line with the legal gains of the European Union, and these amendments will achieve the same degree of protection of geographical indications and designations of origin of products and services as in the Member States of the European Union. Protection, protection of geographical indications and designations of origin of products and services in the Republic of Croatia shall be in the jurisdiction of the State Intellectual Property Office, as governed by the law in question and by the Regulation on the protection of geographical indications and the designation of origin of products and services as a sublegal act, as well as by international contracts which have been accessed by the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the jurisdiction of the State Institute for Intellectual Property, which is derived from this law, there are certain competences of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy for geographical indications and designations of origin for food, alcoholic beverages, wine governed by the Food and Wine Act. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the Law are introduced to appeal against decisions of the State Intellectual Property Institute adopted in the first instance. The establishment of appeal councils which would decide by appeal and which would act at the institution as independent bodies shall be foreseen. The composition and structure of the Boards of Appeal shall be subject to or subject to the relevant provisions of the patent law because these provisions are common to all Boards of Appeal in the field of industrial property rights. This way of introducing the appeal procedure is also foreseen by the national strategy for the development of the intellectual property system in 2005-2010 as a measure improving the system of intellectual property. The introduction of the right to appeal against the decisions of the Institute will ensure, above all, greater legal certainty of the parties in the proceedings but also greater control adopted in the first stage of the procedure for the recognition of the right of intellectual property or industrial property. The provisions on the right to appeal in the protection proceedings are identical to those laid down in the appeal procedure in all other proceedings for all industrial property rights in respect of the complaint against the first instance decisions of the Office. This law also introduces provisions on civil and legal protection, geographical indications and designations of origin of products and services in such a way as to ensure that the provisions of the Mark Act relating to civil and legal protection of trade marks are properly applied to civil and legal protection of geographical indications which are subject to the regulation of this law. These provisions of the Law on the trade mark of its amendments and additions will be in line with the Directive on the implementation of intellectual property rights, the European Parliament and the Council as of 29 April 2004. So for these reasons, I will support the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90572	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90573	Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the designations of geographical origin and designations of origin of products and services. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary Vicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90574	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90575	Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90576	Just a second because we have a whole series of laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90577	There are five amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90578	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90579	All five?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90580	All five are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90581	They become an integral part of the law. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The result? Unanimity with 99 votes for the proposed law. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Professional Service shall be authorised to conduct a revision of the text of this law before its publication in the "National Journal". Please vote. The result? With 86 votes in favour, 3 abstentions were reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90582	We move on to the following: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconducts, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 698 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament again very briefly because I say one in a series of these changes that we are talking about intellectual property today. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products is fully harmonised by Croatian legislation in the field of Topography of Semi-Legal Products with the acquis of the European Community, including those provisions which will only be applied from the moment of accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products are proposed in accordance with the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia for the seventh chapter dealing with intellectual property opened on 18 October 2006 and with the common position of the European Union at the Conference on Accession in Brussels on 14 February this year. What is crucial is to point out at present we do not have too many patents before in Croatia but because of consistency, the protection of the entire area of intellectual property is, of course, necessary to coordinate this and because of the already mentioned national strategy for the development of intellectual property. And I'd also say that this is about microchips, that it's kind of one area between patents, so patent law and the Design Act, and that's very well regulated in America, and now Europe is trying to bring Europe closer together and better to protect it, right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90584	Thank you. Do you want a representative of the proposing committee? Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Honorary Representative Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90585	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of my fellow MPs. At its 35th session of June 14th, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Half-Leading Products, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. In implementing the Stabilisation and Association Procedure, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure the level of protection of intellectual property equal to the level of protection in the European Union. The existing law is highly in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, and the pre-accession negotiations set out those parts of the Croatian law to be amended in order for the Republic of Croatia to take over the level of protection of the Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products as well as the Member States of the European Union at the time of accession of the European Union. Proposed amendments and additions in accordance with the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 7. Law of both intellectual property and common position of the European Union at the Conference on Accession of 14 February 2007. The proposal to amend and supplement that law also reached coherence in the remaining issues in which existing solutions differ from legal instruments at European Union level, particularly in matters of civil law, product and services, as well as in the new Institute of Appeal of First Instanceal Decisions in the administrative procedure. The Committee unanimously concluded, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products in an emergency procedure in the form prepared by the proposings.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90586	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90587	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here are a few words on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Half-Leading Products. Name and last name of the law which in some ways confuses, given our experience and character of the debate we have in the Croatian Parliament. I'll say very simply this, it's a law that belongs to a group of laws that protects intellectual property, which protects an knowledge-based economy, knowledge-based economy. Certainly those who create knowledge are aware of how much efforts human and financial and each other make to create knowledge, knowledge that is the source of certain products, certain competitive advantages, knowledge that ultimately the ability to control the global market and manage global security, political, economic and any other course. Aware of the advantages and importance of that knowledge in any case, they are the most developed in charge of making such knowledge belong to those who created it, who invested in it. The question is, of course, to what extent is the Republic of Croatia and to what extent is the Croatian economy involved in the knowledge industry, or in this case specifically, since it is a matter of protecting the topography of semi-conductor products in the semiconductor industry. You don't have to mention some names here, some names like Silicon Valley that started one of the most developed industries 40 years ago. It should be said that once the Republic of Croatia had in that part of the industrial semiconductors some companies that even had their own place that was noticeable and recognizable on a wider stage. But I'll talk about it later. It is certainly important to point out what is the basic intention of this law that the Republic of Croatia in the field of protection of topography of semi-conductive products is to apply a law that is very high in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, as well as the fact that pre-accession negotiations set out parts of this law that should be amended in order to give the Republic of Croatia at the time of accession to the European Union the same degree of protection of the marks of the topography of semiconductor products, as well as the Member States of the European Union. What exactly is topography? It's a very simple, semi-conductive product, and it's nothing more than a three-dimensional picture of semiconductor chips, which, in some ways, is part of the knowledge they're creating today, I'd say the leading company in the semiconductor industry. One of those names is present in this House. Almost every one of your laptops says Intel inside. So it's about chips that are an integral part of our lives. And these issues of knowledge protection, images created by certain institutions, are the subject of this part of the legislation. Right to protection. The right to protect topography has individuals who are its creators. When more people together have created topography, the right to protection has all the creators together. But in any case, given the complexity of these products, I will say only one fact, that today these chips we are talking about and whose legislation we adopt in the Croatian Parliament have almost on that small silicon plate over or almost a billion transistors. Some of us who are a little older remember those first transistors we had, and then we proudly spoke 2 transistors or 3 or 10 transistors. Today's technology allows these topologies to be generated on one such small surface by a billion transistors that then perform with the appropriate software, i.e. software support of a specific function. In any case, because of the complexity of this right of protection, they belong much more to institutions and much less to individuals. But it is not excessive to point out, and today in Croatia, some products from the pharmaceutical industry are discussed when a topography or a particular product is created on the basis of knowledge in a working relationship the right to protection has an employer of topography or a product characterized or based on newly created knowledge. Especially here when the topography was created on the basis of the contract,... the right to protection of work contract has a party to the contract which has ordered topography if such contract is not otherwise specified. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Joint provisions on the procedure before the Bureau. The procedure for registration of topography shall be carried out by the State Institute for Intellectual Property of the Republic of Croatia. The Office's decision is not allowed to appeal, but a administrative dispute can be initiated. It would be very good if there were such disputes, but unfortunately it's not real. Topography Register. For each topography, the following data shall be entered in the register of topography, the date of submission, the name of topography, the data of the applicant, the name and name, the institution data, the information of the creator. These already first preliminary data can very quickly determine whether a particular institution or a specific individual qualified to be able to carry out such a registration at all. Member States will protect the topographies of semi-manufactured products by adopting legal provisions to which exclusive rights will be granted in accordance with the provisions, i.e. guidelines among which the topography of the semiconductor product is written will only be saturated if it meets the conditions that the creator of this own intellectual effort is the result and that it is not common in the semiconductor industry. So only new knowledge, new architecture, new products are registered. Right to protection, we've already talked about it, individuals, companies, etc. The Institute shall carry out administrative procedures for the registration of topography as well as any other tasks. And here's because we're talking about this group of laws that seems to me to deserve a broader attention because their context is really broader. It's about the knowledge economy. I told the one who creates knowledge, protects it, protects it by proper legislation. We adopt it here because it knows how hard it is to create new knowledge, how new technologies are created, because on newly created values, a strategic comparative advantage is created that allows commercialisation, allows for profits, allows for extra profits. Here's one of those companies is exactly that Intel whose name and last name is on each of your laptops. I remember the early '70s when the first Intel chip was created. It was so-called. 40 04 that had 20 to 30 thousand transistors. I also remember in the '90s when many predicted that this industry, that these abilities, these topographys, these semi-conductive products would come to saturation and that there was no possibility of further growth. Fortunately, in 10 or 15 years with a million transistors, how capable were such semi-conductor designs... In 2000, we reach the level of a billion transistors, all of which shows the extent of the explosion of knowledge, ability, which shows the scale of that industry, its profits, profits, etc. And it's not too much to stress. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about this Law, it is always inevitable to mention the language, whether topography, or topology. These are these different discussions, here we are at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing in whose area is originally, not legally, but also professionally belonging to this Law. I think it would be good in the future to consult on these issues. In any case, designing this topography is part of a knowledge-based economy, and the production of chips alone can be done in many places in the world. Finally, it is very simple because it is important laws to show the readiness of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian legislation for the accession processes of the European Union, the HDZ Club supports the proposal of this Law as one of the most important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90588	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90589	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. Well, of course, this Law as well as this set of laws that regulate intellectual property areas should absolutely be supported. Namely, the protected topography of semi-conductive products allows or allows the rightholder to control, for a limited period of time, only the right to control the traffic of protected topography, i.e. products created on its basis. The right holder shall only be authorised to approve or prohibit the multiplication of topography, its sale or placing on the market during a certain period of time. In order to protect the topography of semiconductor products, the following conditions or preconditions must be met. The first of them is that it must be original, or should be the result of the intellectual activity of its creator. The second schedule itself should not be in the usual industry, noting that protection applies exclusively to certain topography, not to the production technique itself and the production process itself, which can possibly be protected by patent, business secret or otherwise. The proposal for a law harmonizes Croatian legislation in the area of the right to protect the topography of semi-manufactured products with the acquis of the European Union, including those provisions that will be applicable only from the moment of accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. As far as concrete legal solutions are concerned, it is necessary or I think that four basic elements should be highlighted, which are regulated in a new way by the proposal itself. The first element is next. In accordance with the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia, a solution was adopted in which, in the case of topography created in a working relationship or under a contract other than a contract of work, the right to protect topography shall be granted by the employer of topography, i.e. a natural person who is a national of the Republic of Croatia or in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, or a legal person who is established in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, if, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the first commercially exploited or exploited topography, which was not until then the subject of economic exploitation elsewhere in the world, although in the European Union, only the economic exploitation of topography by a person who had the right to dispose of it. The second element is equally important. In particular, the right to appeal against decisions taken in the first instance, which, of course, contributes to legal certainty not only in terms of decision-making but also in the control of decisions taken in the first instance. Third. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And a fourth. A solution is adopted which regulates the provisions of the patent law relating to the representation of the holder of the common right, the procedure of declaring nothing, the application for infringement of the right, the claim for compensation, the infringement of the right. Therefore, they apply in an appropriate manner to the topographies of semi-conductive products which are subject to the regulation of this law. Because of all this and of course because of all the opportunities we have had to hear on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club and in this professional sense from the esteemed representative Mr. Cosic, absolutely this law should be in... meaning and support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90590	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90591	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the deadline. One amendment should be voted on whether to debate and vote on the amendment to the government after the deadline. Please, let's get on with it. The result? With 81 votes for, 2 abstentions, 7 against will debate and vote on the amendment. Please explain Amendment 1 to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90592	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. This, then, refers to Article 5 of the amendment of the Government. In Article 5 and in the amended Article 17, the following wording is added: "the States which are parties to the Treaty on European Economic Area" point in front of the text and the text: "unless there are reasonable reasons on which the holder of topography reserves exclusive rights arising from protected topography" is deleted. And now for a brief explanation. Exhaust rights need to be laid down in the field of European overall economic space, not only of the European Union. So the text is deleted as unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90593	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's up for that amendment? Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 80 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 5 against the proposed amendment. Amendments to the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90594	Everyone accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90595	Three amendments, becoming an integral part of the law. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 94 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, the proposed law was adopted in the text as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90596	- Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on patents, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 699 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Education, Science and Culture for Information and Information and Media and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Mr. Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90597	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Very short. It should be emphasized that this one again says in a series of IPRs may be the most circular, because it is actually the representative of the set of industrial property rights. So the invention is patented. And you know patents are a modern feature of global competition. And about patents, patents. Advanced countries actually live off patents and sell their patents. And here I think we still have a lot to do about science and technology, but we're on the right track, and with that law, we'll regulate it. Two things might just point out briefly what is crucial to this law, and that through this law is also being introduced into these remaining five. It is the right to appeal, which the Honorable Mr. Cosic said, that means we now have the right to appeal, and not more that the decision of the state office is final, so that it goes to administrative procedure. Thus, the right to appeal is introduced in accordance with, of course, the European Union's laws. And it will be worth the means for all these laws to others. But in it it was precisely located and described up in thinness. And the exhaustion of the law. So that is, the delay is the application until the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. And these are these two key segments that should be mentioned except of course these what I said was actually the law that bears all these others would have said. It's the key thing, the patent thing. Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90598	Thank you. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture? Dear Representative Peter Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90599	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! At its 35th session of June 14th, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on patents with the final draft law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. 699. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. The 2003 patent law has highly complied with the obligations of harmonisation of Croatian patent legislation with the acquis of the European Union. The pre-accession negotiations set out the parts of the laws to be amended to ensure that the Republic of Croatia provides the same level of legal protection in the area of patents as the Government in the Member States of the European Union at the time of accession to the European Union. The proposed amendments and additions shall achieve consistency in the issues of the organisation of the certificate of additional protection for medicinal products. Afterwards forced licences for pharmaceutical products in certain cases, the right to appeal against decisions taken in the administrative procedure in the first instance. Furthermore, in the area of civil and legal protection of patents, it is about the exhaustion of what has already been spoken, patent law, and the issues of the impact of the European patent. The board reached a unanimous conclusion. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the patent law by emergency procedure in the form prepared by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90600	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90601	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the promoters! Right at the beginning, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the patent law with the final draft of the law. My predecessors have already said before me in their presentation, the most significant fact of this law is to improve that legal protection. As we know in the administrative procedures conducted in front of the state administration in relation to the acts, the decisions taken by the state office today do not have the right to appeal, but we have the direct right to open an administrative dispute. So, file a lawsuit to the Administrative Court if we're dissatisfied with the state's office's decision. I don't have to tell you how long it takes before our administrative court. And just this is a very important provision and a very important paper that this law makes, which is the right thing to appeal. In any case, the legal certainty is far greater if, in relation to the decision of the Institute, we have established the right of appeal to be resolved by the Board of Appeal, which this time is being established by the Board of Appeal, but as an independent Board of Appeal which is considering the appeal, and only after the decision of the Board of Appeal goes to the Administrative Court, so the administrative dispute. Also, this law regulates other issues, which is the arrangement of the Institute of Evidence on Additional Protection. This is the introduction of an additional protection certificate for medicinal products intended for human or animal use as supplemented by a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. And evidence of additional protection for plant protection products as complemented, is it also by the regulations of the European Parliament. One more question is regulated. That's a forced license, right? It is also in line with the European Parliament's regulations. As we have already said in the Law on Copyright and Other Related Rights, significantly improved and precise provisions on civil and legal protection of patents have been significantly improved, in a way that in one almost I would say identical temporary measures for patent infringements, temporary measures to provide evidence and obtain evidence during the litigation process. The law lays down the urgency and application of provisions and other laws. So this is one law that makes our legislation fully consistent in this segment with European Union legislation. This is an amendment to the law which provides us with a significantly better quality and significantly better legal protection in the area of the patent law. The Croatian Democratic Community Club also supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90602	The word has a esteemed representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90603	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Associates, Assistants, colleagues and colleagues. This extremely important proposal for a law amending and supplementing the patent law with the Final Proposal for the Law is not by chance written in such small letters because a number of provisions which have been specified and actually issues which have been regulated by this law are too important to achieve full compliance with the European acquis in the area of patent rights. And that conditions are met for the application of a more transparent, more reliable and efficient patent protection system. I hope that it will not actually be a wide open door for those countries, for those from developed Europe and the world who, to whom we will give maximum legal protection and not allow our own to develop. To develop and to improve their business and to protect their patents in a certain way. It seems particularly important to me that this arrangement of the Institute of Evidence of Additional Protection is done because it is here to say how and in what way additionally to protect medicinal products intended for humans or, or animals. As complemented by the EC Regulation and which in general refers to the introduction of an additional protection licence for plant protection products. As it is complemented, which is why it was necessary to complete the existing regulation of the patent law which is just ahead of us on issues of publishing and the effects of certificates of additional protection. And exactly how it was done in the Member States of the European Union. It was also necessary by this law and I think that this was fully done by nomotechnical provisions, by solid legal tissues, by a framework that enables this law to really apply and to implement protection as is common in the system at all, in the legal system. It is certain that the amendments to the patent law should continue to be fully aligned with the law of the European Union. You can't actually ignore the order... the licence as regards the production of pharmaceutical products for export to countries with public health problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will also have a drug law in this session, so it would be useful to see if our pharmaceuticals, our pharmaceuticals, have certain protections. Possible and privileges compared to third countries. The proposed amendments to the patent law for this area will be fully harmonised because this is the case with the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 7. Of course, it is important to highlight the usual legal protection, which is the right to appeal against the decisions of the institute and also, which persons have also applied for compensation for damages due to insults of the right to apply for patents and consensual patents. In addition, one of the achievements is also a request for the publication of the ruling because the patent holder can normally require that a final judgment which has even partially complied with the request aimed at protecting patents be made public in means of public communication and at the expense of the defendants. And the court will do so within the limits of the claim and decide at which means of public reporting the verdicts will be announced and will the entire verdict or part of it be published? If the court decides to publish only part of the judgment, it will determine within the limits of the claim to publish at least the sentence and, where appropriate, that part of the judgment from which it is apparent. Who hurt the patent and what effect they will bear in order to prevent it from affecting everyone else who reaches out for such a single injury. Of course, Article 95 to 95g pa burden of evidence 95h, the burden of evidence in a litigation procedure carried out for infringement of a patent-protected process for the production of a new substance shall be deemed to be any identical substance or substance of the same composition produced by a protected procedure until otherwise demonstrated by the person who produces such substance or composition. I think that this is the kind of bill that we really need to conduct an emergency procedure. That it should be accepted as soon as possible and harmonised. If there is another nomotechnical provision that the Legislative Committee has also pointed to, and I believe that this will also be a contribution to all those who deal with patents, who are concerned with the protection of intellectual property, that they have a good and secure legal foothold to protect their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90604	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Velimir Pleša.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90605	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Director, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The existing patent law with the definition of basic concepts provides for issues such as patent protection, patent acquisition, patent recognition procedures, patent effects, patent restrictions, patent elimination. Realising the right, European patent application, European patent, international patent application under the cooperation agreement and so on. When reading this law and this bill, the bill we are discussing today, we must certainly ask ourselves what is a patent and what is it providing to its holder? The patent is a set of exclusive rights which provides a certain legal order to a legal or natural person, a patent holder based on a particular invention, a solution to a particular technical problem. The patent actually ensures the holder exclusively with the right to manufacture, use, put on the market or sell by invention and protected by patent. A kind of monopoly of economic exploitation of a protected invention is the work and success of an inventor. The inventor is free to make personal use of the invention, but his position also allows him to make special use of it because the holder can leave it to others for a certain time through the licence contract and fully transfer it to other persons. In order for an invention to be protected by patentity, three specific assumptions need to be fulfilled. These assumptions were first, the novelty of invention compared to the existing state of technique. Second, possession of a certain inventive level of invention, namely that the invention is not contained in the existing state of technique or that it is obviously derived from it. Thirdly, industrial application of the invention is required, i.e. practical applicability within the industrial scope. Without all three of these assumptions, the invention cannot be protected by patent. The first of these assumptions is the novelty of invention compared to the existing state of technique. This means that the invention at the time of the patent protection is not yet known to the professional public, i.e. it is not included in any publication or exhibited. Although there are some exceptions to this strict rule, it is instructed to keep the invention in strict secrecy until the start of the patent protection procedure. Another assumption is that there is a certain inventive level. The invention must obviously not result from the current known state of the technique in a particular area, whether it is a patented production process, the product itself or the method of use or the handling of the subject of patent protection must not clearly result from the condition of the technique known to the experts in the area. Finally, there is a final condition, i.e. the possibility of a practical invention and a practical implementation, i.e. an industrial application is the purpose of patent protection and the progress of industry, i.e. the economy as a whole, and the supply of human society to new products. The basic issues that the existing law so far wishes to regulate these amendments and additions are, above all, foreseen in accordance with the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 7. The right to intellectual property since October 2006 and the Common Position of the European Union at the Conference on Accession in Brussels of 14 February 2007. And these are issues concerning the arrangements of the Institute of Evidence on Additional Protection, the arrangements of forced licences, the provisions on civil and legal protection of patents, the provisions governing the issue of law exhaustion, and especially what is greater several times during this discussion of this point and the patent said this is the introduction of the right to appeal against the decisions of the institution. In fact, it is the general opinion of experts that the decisions of the Institute should be introduced in order to achieve compliance with the European model and the new area. The consequences of the initiation of the complaint are greater transparency and legal certainty in making decisions in the administrative procedure for the recognition of the rights of industrial property carried out by the Institute, as well as the control of decisions taken in the first instance. Finally, the proposed Law amending and supplementing the patent law achieves full compliance with the European acquis in the area of patent rights and gives rise to the conditions for the application of a more transparent, more reliable and efficient system of implementation of the protection of patents. To an even greater extent, entrepreneurship and market freedom as a cornerstone of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia are being ensured, and creativity in this area is being encouraged. And for these reasons, in any case, this law needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90606	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90607	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here's a few more words. Given that it is an important set of laws that I would say freely regulate relations in the economy, how we today very often stress the knowledge-based economy. One of these important laws is patent law. Certainly patents belong as we say to innovative, creative people who are able to create a new value. This new value certainly needs to be properly protected. Working with patents is very much part of the legal profession and legal skills developed in developed countries. Just as this creation is developed when it comes to new products, new technologies, innovations, etc. The third part of this system is related to new funding mechanisms. And I remember having a chance to talk to a man who created Silicon Valley, one of its creators, that's Dr. William Perry, former U.S. Defence Minister, while honoring the University of Zagreb. A lot of people knew that nose. The lectures he gave at both the university and the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing I would say in the context of what we're talking about today should be repeated. Croatia should be part of the global IT economy. It seems to me that it was an important historical lecture, but still without a proper echo spread. The reason why I decided to say a few more words was the finding of a state secretary who said of many of the patents alive. They make a lot of money on patents. There is an economy that is related to that part of innovation. As there is a particularly developed legal profession, etc. The reason for the debate is actually my conversation yesterday with one of my assistants who returned two and three days ago from Washington where he presented one of our work, one of our projects and after the debate was completed, issues etc. It happened next. There came an old gentleman to him and he said you know a colleague if you think to sell on the American market this system of yours you need to know that we have a patent, a patent that we registered. I'm not going to go into the details of what this is all about. The patent is registered in 1997 and is valid until 2013. The young gentleman was completely confused. He didn't know what it was about. But the man insisted and said take care of it so that we wouldn't have a problem. You'll have to negotiate with us. And that was very useful information for both me and us because we realized that man recognized something important, something that could potentially have long-term and commercial profitability. But fortunately for him that we, that colleague, failed to explain it to him. We only created a theoretical framework to make this system work to realize it should be at least 10 times as much resources as what we get through existing projects. And the creation of a new product we see is difficult, but some and this is said by this gentleman, you know we have reported a patent, but we have not yet realised this product because we have had some problems and things have not been trivial but this segment is busy and it shows that with patents it is in some way not only commercializing the product but it is holding controlled niche in the economy to prevent dominating or... some other products on developed markets. This would be very useful and illustrating, and I hope that certainly working with patents is something that we should really want in Croatia in the future in Europe because in this way this global economy, the promotion of better education, more organised research, the integration of institutes, the creation of critical mass is a real challenge and again here I think it is very useful for this pillar of the law here and to support the president of the Committee on Education and Science and I think that what we are talking about here today at three hours, are usually topics that are considered irrelevant or less important, but what we are talking about today and this set of laws, has a great importance for the development of Croatia, for the development of the Croatian economy, for the development of what we call a knowledge-based economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90608	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90609	Final draft law amending and supplementing the patent law. The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the deadline. There's a vote to vote on. So who's to vote and discuss the amendments the government has made after the deadline. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 77 for, 2 abstentions, 8 against. So we'll discuss and vote on these amendments. Amendment 1 to the Government, please state secretary explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90610	Thank you very much. That's on Article 21. Now I'm just going to give you an explanation so I don't read it all to you. It is necessary to ensure that the rights are exhausted again in the area of the European Economic Area and the text is deleted as unnecessary, not only of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90611	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in? The vote. The result? 76 for seven abstentions. Amendment adopted. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90612	I suggest that the amendments be raised by hand. ... So what would be unusual? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90613	Explain the amendment to two State Secretarys.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90614	It's on article 42, I apologize. In Article 42, paragraph 7 is replaced by the following: In addition to Article 95(4), the text is added, in order to prevent any ambiguity on the issue when the court is obliged to submit a decision on a provisional measure in view of full compliance with the provision of Article 9(4) of the European Community Directive 48 of 2004 on the enforcement of intellectual property rights. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In paragraph 3, the text is added, in order to prevent any ambiguity on the issue when the court is obliged to submit a solution on a provisional basis and in order to fully comply with the European Community. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90615	Who's up for that amendment? I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's up for that amendment? By raising your hand. Thank you. Against? Now I'm gonna say who's against it so we have a simpler one. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90616	That's Mr. President on Article 48. Nomotechnical delay of entry into force of certain provisions should be contained in the same article which determines the entry into force of this law. Here's a very short one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90617	I'm opening a debate. Comrade Kramaric! I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's against it? Unanimity. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90618	It is an amendment to Article 49, again as before. Nomotechnically again, delaying entry into force.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90619	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's against it? Unanimity. Fifth.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90620	Article 50 of the amendment. Same case again. Nomotechnical delay of entry into force as in previous articles.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90621	It's a debate. I'm opening up. I'm closing up. Who's against it? Unanimity accepted. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90622	On Article 51 of the amendment, the same thing again. Nomotechnical delay in entry into force.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90623	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's against it? It's not. 59 for, 1 against. Okay. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90624	Article 52 ... Those material legal delays should be provided for in the procedures which have been initiated before the amendments and additions enter into force, as otherwise, the applicant of applications under those provisions would be placed in a more unfavourable position without his or her own guilt. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90625	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's against this amendment? Unanimity accepted. 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90626	Article 53 is replaced by the It is important to stress that it is not possible to comply with the law before its entry into force. Here, very briefly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90627	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's against this amendment? Amendment accepted unanimously. Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90628	In Article 55, the nomotechnical delay of entry into force again. Very short, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90629	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's against this amendment? No one. Unanimity accepted. Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it! Vote! The result? With 86 votes for, 2 abstentions, 4 against the adopted proposed law in the text as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the next conclusion. The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to conduct an editorial of this text of the law before its publication in "The People's Journal". Please, let's get on with it. Please vote! The result? With 86 for, 3 abstentions, 1 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90630	We're moving on to the next one. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Industrial Design Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 700 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mr. Master Željko Topic, Director of the State Institute for Intellectual Property. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90631	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. So I'm going to give you a very short presentation of the fifth proposal in a series of six regulations. However, let me just say a few sentences about the context in question from some respected MPs. So as it has been pointed out many times today, we are talking about a set of regulations that define the national system of intellectual property, this time in its legislative aspect. We mentioned here or discussed the Law of Copyright, whose substance aspect is mainly related to artistic and cultural intellectual creations, although of course there are technological examples of computer programs being protected by copyright rather than patents as expected. The patent protects that technological and natural substance, so the invention as a new solution to a technical problem, and this regulation that we're talking about now protects the substance that we can call marketing or generally business just like the Mark Act. It thus protects the substance that is particularly important in the modern business world. I would like to say that all these six laws that are now on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament are the result of two processes that are parallel. The first is mentioned several times today, it is an open negotiation, chapter VII, so the chapter on intellectual property, negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. That's a very good reason, of course. Within these negotiations are defined two so-called the measure, which should be removed in order for the chapter to be closed. The first of the criteria is to comply with all the legislation, and we are doing it today. However, I would like to emphasise, in particular, that other process, which is the realisation of the measures of our national strategy to improve the intellectual property system because it indicates that we really want to achieve as a strategic goal the degree of protection of intellectual property as it is in the countries of the European Union, but parallel to it or at the same time that we want to achieve that degree of use of intellectual property as a developmental resource, as leverages of development not only of economic but of overall social development including cultural and any other artistic and any other social development. Why am I saying that? Because we can mathematically view this legislative aspect as necessary or necessary, but not by sufficient conditions to achieve that level of use of intellectual property. So we are now creating preconditions that in Croatia property of intellectual materials is determined and protected in the most modern and most complete way such as in the world, i.e. in the European Union primarily. But if we're going to be active users, if we're going to use that profan term, profit from such an orderly system, or not, the choice is still ours. Of course, that's not a legislative issue. So I wouldn't put it in conflict relations with each other. It's definitely legislation. I apologize for this, but I was encouraged by the debate, so I wanted to point out that the government as a proponent of these laws is aware of the fact that the laws are only necessary, but not enough to achieve the objectives of the national strategy. We consider them a first step and we are happy that in fact in the measures of this strategy, all these things that have been profiled through the negotiations as necessary amendments and amendments to legislation so that we can be pleased to realize that we are actually meeting our own measures that we are without negotiations, well. When it comes to industrial design, as I have already said, it actually regulates the issue of the protection of the external appearance of industrially manufactured objects that you know, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs almost all the world today buys most of the products on preferences rather than ulitarianity. It's so typical of some industries, fashion clothes and shoes, but also of a whole series of other industries where we wouldn't say that, you know. Not just household appliances, cars even, furniture and everything. So this law, together with the Mark Act, is about these aspects, changes aren't big, so they don't touch the content of rights, they don't touch the substance, they just improve the exercise of rights. I don't want to take away your valuable time, but we're here to answer any questions. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90632	Thank you. Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Honorary Representative Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90633	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed at the same 35th session of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Industrial Design with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 700. The Committee discussed the issue as a home working body, and the opening argument was tabled by representatives of the applicant. The provisions of the existing 2003 Industrial Design Act were in line with the legal acquis of the European Union at the time of its adoption. The adoption of a new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the enforcement of intellectual property rights has shown the need to comply with the provisions on the protection of rights in the event of infringements in all IPR laws with the requirements of that Directive. Furthermore, whether the appropriate solutions should be brought into line with the Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement on the International Registration of Industrial Design, which the Republic of Croatia is also a party, which came into force after the adoption of the Croatian Industrial Design Act. It is provisions on international registration of industrial design. The amendments and additions to this Act also propose to regulate the issue of extending the impact of Community design on the Republic of Croatia, so the reverse effect at the time of entry into full membership of the European Union and to also regulate the issue of protection, which is particularly important to protect and preserve the rights of holders of earlier industrial design rights in a national procedure prior to Croatia's membership of the European Union. The Committee unanimously concluded: it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Act on Industrial Design by emergency procedure in the form prepared by the proposings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90634	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90635	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director. Another area of intellectual activity is certainly industrial design, i.e. the protection of appearance, the appearance of a product. In the era of mass industrial production, pure utilitarianism and product quality are often not enough, but a certain aesthetic quality is required. Such quality is a fruit of intellectual creation, as well as of other forms of intellectual property, so it also has adequate protection. Industrial design is applied to a large number of industrial products, but it is also used to protect them from hand-made objects. Fields where industrial design is present can thus be the design of household products, cars, technical equipment and even machines, medical appliances and computers. Of course, the concept of design as a feature that greatly affects the final product is particularly expressed in the production of luxury products such as jewelry, watches and designer clothes and shoes. The use of industrial design is also common in regulating living and business areas as well as in architectural solutions. For all of these areas of industrial design application, the common assumption is that industrial design should be primarily aesthetic, as well as that it does not protect the technical characteristics of the product. Which is why manufacturers protect industrial design in the first place and what the consequences are. The protection of industrial design is an effective market tool for the manufacturer to protect its own investment in development and production. Once protected industrial design is owned by an author or a specific business entity and can significantly affect the position of the entity on the market as well as its market value. As with other emerging forms of intellectual property such as patents and copyright, industrial design represents a large share of the value of many known world industry names, especially in the world of high fashion and luxury. In order to protect a product design as an industrial design, as well as other intellectual property rights, some assumptions are required. The protected facility should be an objective novelty. Thus, the Industrial Design Act says that the design should be considered new if no identical design was made available to the public before the date of submission of the application for registration of industrial design or if the right of the championship is requested before the date of the recognised championship. In addition to this objective news, it is also required that the design has an individual character, i.e. if the overall impression that it makes on the user is different from the overall impression that any design that has been made available to the public before the date of submission of the industrial design application or if the requested right of the championship prior to the date of the recognised championship. Finally, the legislator finds that industrial design cannot protect the design of a product that opposes public interest or moral principles. Industrial design can also be an authorial work. In some legal systems, if a particular act protected by industrial design rights is appropriate and the conditions for the protection of copyright works will then enjoy copyright protection from the moment of creation regardless of whether a procedure for registration of industrial design will be subsequently implemented. The legal order of the Republic of Croatia is one of the few who possess this possibility. In Croatia, these two forms of protection are not mutually exclusive and can exist parallelly for the same design. The industrial design area in Croatia is governed by the Industrial Design Act applicable from 1 January 2004 and by the Industrial Design Regulation, which entered into force on 1 June 2004. The pre-accession negotiations set out the parts of that Law that should be amended in order to give the Republic of Croatia the same degree of protection of industrial design as in the Member States of the European Union at the time of accession to the European Union, so it is necessary to adopt this Act amending and supplementing the Industrial Design Act. The proposed Law fully aligns Croatia's industrial design legislation with the acquis of the European Union, including those provisions that will enter into force only from the moment of Croatia's entry into full membership in the European Union. And the basic issues that are being regulated by the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Industrial Design are the question of the exhaustion of the right, the reintroduction of the right to appeal against decisions of the Institute, the introduction of provisions on Community design, provisions on civil and legal protection of rights arising from registered industrial design, provisions on international registration of industrial design, provisions on the subsequent entry into force of certain provisions of this law. It's final. The Croatian Democratic Community Club because the proposed harmonisation of the rules of the Croatian legal system in the area of industrial design is approaching European and international legal systems, resulting in the fulfilment of the necessary conditions for the integration of the Republic of Croatia into complex processes within the existing intellectual property system, as well as the fact that the adoption of such a law and this harmonisation provides for entrepreneurial and market freedom as a basis for the economic development of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90636	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90637	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Industrial Design. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Government after the deadline. Please vote on whether or not we will debate, vote on the amendments that the government has submitted after the deadline? Please vote! The result? [[Intruder: The government is the one I think has changed everything.]] 77 votes in, 3 against. Let's change the government. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90638	Amendment 1 refers to Article 25, and I will be very brief. The amendments provided for in Article 25 were contained earlier in Article 1. And according to the rules of nomotechnics, everything that was contained in Article 1 of this Law is linked to the content in Article 31. It's a little complicated, but here it is, that's it. Very short.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90639	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment. Please, let's get on with it. The result? 80 for, 2 abstentions, 2 against. Let's move on. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90640	Article 4 of the Recital: It is necessary to provide for the exhaustion of the law in the field of European economic space. That's what we had before.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90641	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. Let's vote The whole system went down? [[The intruders don't understand.]] What? Who's up for that amendment? Please, we have to vote manually. Thank you. Against? With 97 for and one against the proposed amendment. Amendment 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90642	This is on Article 16. The deadline for the delivery of an oral hearing is reduced from 45 days to 10 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90643	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of Amendment 3? Thank you. Against? 96 for, 2 against. Amendment 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90644	That's on Article 21. Very short. It is linked to the European Union Directive 48 of 2004 on the law of law, on the exercise of intellectual property rights. And the text in paragraph 3 is added: "in order to prevent any ambiguity on the issue when the court is obliged to deliver a solution on a temporary measure." Thank you very much. Very short.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90645	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. Against? 97 for, 1 against. And Amendment 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90646	Article 25 of the amendment is amended as follows: "The amendment 1 is now set out in Article 1a, while the entry into force and the amendment to Amendment 6 is now set out in Article 31."
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90647	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 5. Who's in? Thank you. Against? 97 for, one against. And Amendment Six?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90648	This Regulation shall enter into Again, only a nomotechnical delay of entry into force of certain provisions. Very short.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90649	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 6. Who's in? Thank you. Against? 96 for, 2 against. ... adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Amendments to the Legislative Committee? Is everybody okay or do we need each other?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90650	No, she doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90651	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90652	Not everyone accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90653	Then let's take it in a row. Amendment 1.?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90654	This proposal is not accepted because the government regulated it in fact by this...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90655	Amendment 1 to that?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90656	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90657	Unacceptable?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90658	No, it's not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90659	It's settled with the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90660	Because it was resolved by the government amendment, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90661	I take it back, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90662	Amendment 1. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90663	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90664	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Three?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90665	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90666	It's an integral part of the law. 4th?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90667	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90668	It's an integral part of the law. Five?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90669	The same is not accepted because it is regulated by the Government's amendment to Article 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90670	Pulled 5. Six?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90671	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90672	It's an integral part of the law. Seven?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90673	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90674	It's an integral part. Eight?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90675	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90676	It's an integral part of the law. Nine?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90677	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90678	It's an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90679	He doesn't accept
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90680	10?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90681	This is not accepted because there was one error in the date of application which is from 1.6, that is... Regulation as amended by Article 1 of the Government’s own amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90682	Fall back, Amendment 10 is withdrawn. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. The result? With 89 votes for, 4 abstentions, the proposed law in the text proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90683	We move to the next - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Mark Act, emergency procedure - first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 702 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Education, Science, Culture and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Director of the State Intellectual Property Institute Mr. Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90684	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. It's very short this time. So I'm not going to repeat any of what's already been said and what's horizontally true for all these regulations. Here, simply because of a few meanings of the stamp in Croatian, let me tell you what it is. It is a legal version of what we call a brand of a product in an economic dictionary or so popular brand today. Therefore, it is the protection of what is called the brand of products in the economy or in the economy or in the business, giving some set of exclusive rights to its holder, and it is essentially that it has the right to use such and confusingly similar character for such or competitive products. We are all aware of the existence of a huge number of these stamps around us, but I want to tell you that there are 120 thousand already registered in Croatia and that anyone who goes to, to economic and legal traffic with some new product or service and gives him some kind of mark of this type, whether it is verbally whether it is figurative or combined must be aware of the fact that even in good faith he can harm other people's exclusive rights. So today it's become a prospective danger because I've already told you 120 thousand existential rights, and that's what our masters should be aware of. So, for this law is specific and should be emphasized except so far for the other laws, that it regulates the so-called question. Seniority. Today, there is a unitary right in the European Union, so-called Communiti trade mark or mark of the European Union acquired before the Office of the European Union for trade marks and industrial design located in Alitante. Thus, in Croatia, permanent rights are acquired which have a territorial nature, apply to the borders of the Republic of Croatia and the same or similar rights are acquired in the European Union. At the time of accession, therefore, the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, given that these are unitary rights, their validity extends to the Republic of Croatia as well. This law properly regulated the issue, therefore, so that there is no conflict of potentially now parallel to the applicable rights that will apply to the same territory at that time. Here, that's all I wanted to point out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90685	Thank you. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture? Dear Representative Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90686	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! At the 35th session, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mark Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading. He discussed it as a parent's work body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. The right of the stamp was governed in 2003 by the relevant law and sublaw, as well as by the international contracts which the Republic of Croatia has joined so far and is largely already in line with the acquis of the European Union. The accession negotiations set out the parts of the laws which should still be harmonised and concerning the issues of depletion of the right to stamp, the introduction of a second-degree administrative procedure on the occasion of a decision on the law in a particular matter to so on. the Community trade mark as an earlier right in relation to stamps notified to national proportions after the entry into full membership of the European Union and to specific provisions on civil and legal protection of trade marks rights. The proposed amendments to the Mark Act are in line with the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia and with the common position of the European Union at the Conference on Accession of 14 February 2007. The board reached a unanimous conclusion. It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt an Emergency Procedure Mark Act in the form prepared by the Proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90687	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90688	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I really don't have anything new to add here compared to what we've already presented to you as the club's attitude and the previous points. This law means full acceptance of the standards of EU legislation and the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. What matters is what other laws say. The possibility of a complaint being opened against the decisions of the Institute as is the case with the patent law. And it's a very important right. We have, we see here, that Article 7 relating to Article 74a provides for a longer period of time for appeal, which is 30 days from the date of delivery of the decision. Otherwise, it's quite the usual 15-day period. We see here that we have a different little bit. So there's even a bigger period that's been given to interested people to protect their rights. The law, as with these other laws, is quite precisely prescribed content of the appeal. The appeal is decided by the Board of Appeal, which is formed within the framework of the Office and we also have one institute. This is a request for a determination and a request for an end of the injury. It's something similar to real estate for trespassing on property where a lawsuit can be found, that a claim can be applied for for injures, and a lawsuit may also require the termination of injury and the prohibition of such and similar injuries in the future. So the institute very similar to disturbing possession code, property at the property. Article 10a refers to Article 77 of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of personal data and on the free movement of personal data and on the free movement of personal data and on the free movement of personal data and on the free movement of personal data. The trade mark holder may request that the burden of such persons be derived from products marked by a sign that hurts the trade withdrawal, confiscation or destruction mark. In addition, Article 78 regulates the claim for compensation for damages, for the normal compensation and benefit of third parties, and the benefits and benefits obtained without base. It is an institute that refers to the Law on Mandatory Relations and is about as regulated as the Law on Mandatory Relations. Also temporary measures for the purpose of breach of the trade mark, temporary measures for the provision of evidence during the litigation process are newspapers in this law that regulate this issue as well as in these Copyright Acts and the patent Act. Definitely this law, like these previous laws, provides one better quality and better legal protection in the field of stamps and the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90689	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vesna Škare-Ozbolt. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. And the word has the honorable representative Velimir, Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90690	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. President, Secretary of State, Mr. Director, Mr. Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The brand is exclusively a right recognised as a sign that serves to distinguish the product and or service of one person from other persons in economic transport. The brand is obtained in most countries by registration based on an examination carried out by the relevant competent authority, which is with us in the Republic of Croatia State Intellectual Property Institute. The basic conditions that a sign must satisfy in order to become a stamp are that it is different and that it is not similar to an earlier mark. The brand provides the owner with the exclusive right to place on the market products and or services marked with them. The trade mark protection is an effective market tool to protect producers and service providers from the funds they have invested in the promotion and marketing of their products and services. The protection of the creation of a sign, logo or label itself can represent an authorial work that is protected as copyright which protects the interest of the author or creator. The right of the stamp in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Mark Act which has been in force since 2004 and by the seal Regulation as well as the relevant international contracts which have been joined by the Republic of Croatia. The application of the Mark Act is highly consistent with the acquis of the European Union, but given the fact that the pre-accession negotiations set out parts of the laws to be amended in order to give the Republic of Croatia the same degree of protection of the right of trade mark at the time of accession to the European Union as in other Member States of the European Union, it is necessary to adopt the proposed Act amending and supplementing the Mark Act. The existing law, with the definition of basic terms, provides for the following questions: acquisition of stamps, effect of stamps, use of stamps, registration applications, registration procedure, change of stamp, extension and termination of the value of stamps, common guarantee mark. Protection of the trade mark under the Madrid Agreement on the Inter-Operation Registration of trade marks and the Protocol relating to the Madrid Agreement. Civil Protection, Violent Provisions and Transitional and Final Provisions. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mark Act shall cover the following issues in particular. As in all previous laws under this set of laws that we are discussing in the first row this afternoon, it is important to introduce the right to appeal against the decision of the institution. Introducing the right to appeal against decisions taken by institutions in the first instance and providing for the establishment of appeal councils to decide on complaints and acting at the Office as independent bodies. In the administrative proceedings carried out by the State Intellectual Property Office in the field of intellectual property rights at the present time, there is no possibility of appeal to decisions of the Institute but the dissatisfied party has only the possibility of filing an action to the Administrative Court. In addition to that right of appeal as a newspaper, we must mention the provisions of the so-called so-called the Community trade mark, the provisions on civil and legal protection of the rights arising from the trade mark and the provisions on the postponement of the entry into force of certain provisions of this law. The proposal for a law introduces articles containing provisions relating to the necessary delay in the entry into force of certain provisions of this law, which are a delay in the provisions on the exhaustion of the right of trade marks in the territory of the European Union until the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Suspension of the application of the provisions on appeal until 1 June 2008 when legislative and operational preparations for the introduction of the Board of Appeal should be completed. These amendments and additions to the trade mark law of the Croatian legal system in the field of trade marks and in this field of intellectual property rights achieves full compliance with the European acquis in the field of trade mark rights and should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90691	Thank you. The secretary of state has no intention. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Mark Act. The amendments were submitted by the government after the vote and by the Legislative Committee. First, to vote on three amendments. We'll discuss and vote further. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? Seventy-nine for Two abstentions. Six against. We discuss and vote. Amendment 1.?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90693	It shall be on Article 1. It is necessary that the law is exhausted in the field of European economic space. Actually... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90694	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 1. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? 71 for it. Five abstentions. Two against. Amendment 1. Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90695	Article 7 reduces the date of delivery of the call for oral hearing from 45 to 10 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90696	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 2. Let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? 71 for it. Two abstentions. Three against. Amendment 2. Amendment 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90697	This Regulation shall enter into force on [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90698	What? What's up, let's see who's got the objection that? Is there no quorum? Please determine the quorum. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Establish the quorum. Yeah. It's okay, you put up objections. How do I know that before that... The result? 85. We do. So we're voting again on Amendment Two. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 76 for, 3 abstentions, 3 against. Amendment three.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90699	It shall apply to Article 13a concerning a Directive of the European Community. In paragraph 3, the text is added in order to prevent any ambiguity on the issue when the court is obliged to provide a solution on a provisional basis and in order to fully comply with paragraph 7 of the Directive
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90700	I'm opening a debate. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90701	Look, Secretary of State. You knew about that directive when you were doing the text of the law. This is really inconclusive that you are doing to us in the Croatian Parliament, that the government, outside the deadline, submits amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law and then says it harmonizes with the directives. Who doesn't do his job and what does this look like now? And in the end, we don't even know why we're voting or what kind of law we're going to pass in the end. This is really scandalous.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90702	Who's up for that amendment? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 76 votes for and 4 against, abstention, against. The proposed amendment has been adopted. Amendments to the Legislative Committee. How's it going with them?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90703	Everyone's taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90704	Everyone's taking it. They become an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 89 votes in favour and one abstention and three against the proposed law in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted. We would skip the debate on point 9. For the consultations requested by the applicants. And moved on to point 10. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 575. The proposer of the law is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, Labour, Social Policy and Health and the Committee on European Integration. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply. Does the national secretary of state not want to further explain the proposal? Committees on Legislative, Labour, Social Policy and Health, European Integration? No one. I'm opening a debate. For the SDP club, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90706	Mr. President, Mrs. Babic and Mrs. Terze. This is already a second reading. There are clear reasons why this law is changing and supplementing. They're acceptable to us. These are the reasons that relate above all to achieving greater precision of certain provisions, to even correct some of the moments that will help to make the law more enforceable. It is also due to how we see compliance with the regulations that are relevant to this area in the meantime. And of course there is this important moment of harmonisation with, in line with the European Union directives and in fact with the legislation of European legal legislation and with the harmonisation of that. So from the point of view of the direct application that is here and the change proposed, we think that the law facilitates the further application and implementation of this basic law. And from that point of view, he's acceptable. But what I'm reporting here primarily is that in this assembly, two are being warned. First of all, what is our situation regarding the pension therefore voluntary, primarily open and closed funds. And secondly, do we have a major problem with this law? These, this law is already in effect for five years. It's not a small period. However, what we have in HANFA's fund data is that the scope of this law in its application is quite modest. It is that the open funds membership, the truth is something increased in 2006 but still only about 75 thousand and that the funds that are being introduced annually are around 180 million kunas, which is also a very modest amount. So the total funds of these funds together with closed funds where only 10 thousand members are actually a modest contribution to what these funds should be doing in this direction that the overall pension system acts more stable in the next period. So that's one state this law doesn't deal with. That is not the case, but which so far is not particularly encouraging in this sense that through these funds too, we will make a more important contribution to making the entire pension system more consistent with what we objectively need to deal with in this country compared to the pensioners. Now, the second question is what to do. Here, obviously, these changes and additions make it easier for us to apply the existing law, he can't have the ambition to change things more significantly, but we still need to think about what to do next, because in the long run our overall pension system is ahead of considerable temptations. It's not just a word now where there are obligations to be paid back from former pensioners, to make some adjustments, etc. we are in a situation of ageing population, a limited number of employees and those who create contributions, and on this basis on a longer deadline we are in a problem ahead, in a problem of uncertainty and instability of the entire system. Unfortunately, these supplements don't contribute significantly. The question is, can we? But we warn that there must be a systematic view of what to do so that the entire pension-inhabitation system is more suitable for the state of things in Croatia in which serious problems should be solved, and we obviously do not have enough grounds for that. Of course, the long-term solution is to improve the performance of economic development, speed up economic growth, employment, etc. And we all know that together. And without it, it's gonna be hard to solve any problem, and then it's gonna be a pension insurance problem. But here is the question of whether we can do more in the area of the stimulation of every young man today that through these funds and other ways when it reaches some age where there will, of course, be no more some who will then be obliged to worry about the functioning of the entire system in the inability to solve problems like we are today. So young people should be strengthened and stimulated to care for their pension from the start of their employment. And from there, the question is whether we can stimulate them more in the direction of these and mandatory, voluntary funds. The question also arises as to whether or not in the mandatory funds may increase that contribution, etc. and optimise, of course, the entire system in the longer term. It is also about education and information and a number of actions that we should lead in the area of pension-inhabited insurance, and not only is the public ensued only by the fact that this country is unable to carry out its obligations to pensioners, but also by looking at how we will be able to do so in the longer term and how both states and individuals have obligations. So that's not working enough, and that's what I wanted to stress with this law. Secondly, I would like to warn you that we should see if we can further stimulate and make it safer and increase investment in voluntary pension funds. There are two questions about that. At first, it seems to me that in some places it is now a condition that the residence should have one year in Croatia, and that the condition had not been before, which may be considered to actually be something that can be a restriction at a given time. The truth can only apply until we join the European Union. But I saw it somewhere. I hope it won't be in any longer than any problem. There's an interesting newspaper here from a financial market point of view that I'd like to warn you about. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day It amends this article of the Law, in fact, Article 69 of the basic law, where it concerns how to act on the capital market when it comes to the assets of these funds. There's one broader, very precise interpretation with a very stable way of more freedom and opportunities for the funds to work with the funds that are collected. I basically support it. So far, funds have been too limited to invest in securities alone, and you see here according to the HANFA data over 90% of the paper is invested in bonds of the Republic, state etc. So here's the possibility now that the funds collected by individuals for their age are investing in something more risky than they could by now, as far as I understand this article. You could basically support him if you really avoid the problem of that risk. The risk of pension funds is specific. In all conditions, of course, the risk is also a problem with all the funds, but here in particular. It is open here to the wider possibility of operations with these funds, in particular to add an article allowing the assets of the funds to be invested in other forms of assets not defined by this law if this is permitted by the HANF, etc. This is perhaps now, however, too wide or at least, I would warn that there is good in mind that provision that basically goes in the right direction not to go too far on the other side. So we support these changes and additions. They will contribute to a more successful application of the law in the next period, which has been in place for five years now, but unfortunately we have nothing to do with it as far as the pension system is concerned, and this should really be done and seen how much, how much, by this law, and how much other solutions, really enable the pension system to be more successful in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90707	Thank you. HDZ Club, Honored Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90708	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds is before us. At the end of last year, we had in our first reading the text of these changes, explaining why this change is necessary. So it has been said that this is due to better efficiency, precision, feasibility and finally compliance with some of our laws that happened in the meantime, but also with the acquis of the European Union. At that time, the point was that the third pillar was opened, that other citizens from the European Union could enter it, so not only the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, an amendment was also proposed, which was mainly proposed in the debate in the first reading, which was that incentives were abolished for that third pillar, and all warned of the danger that it would be in fact a small number of members who were present for the time being, as well as a colleague of the Church said that from last reading to here, everything has been increased by several thousand members in the third pillar. So there are very small shifts and in fact all our efforts should be to make this stimulation and in some way propagating the importance of that third pillar for young people somehow increased. It is good that in this present second reading of the final bill, however, this stimulation is left to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or those living in the countries of the European Union, but are members of our mandatory pension insurance. All other changes that concern, which were important and proposed in the first reading, also stressed that all these changes will, in particular, be made to this larger investment and more risky investment that are no longer just investment in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, but the funds can now also be invested outside the Republic of Croatia. However, this Supervisory Agency has very precise tasks to control and protect it. But here it is now said in the second reading it will be valid when Croatia enters the European Union and I think it is a good proposal. Due to all these good proposals in this second reading, the Croatian Democratic Community will support this proposal but with two amendments that I will now read. The first amendment refers to Article 23(2), which should be amended and read as follows: "If the annual contribution of the Mandatory Peace Fund over the period from the previous three calendar years is less than the guaranteed contribution under paragraph 1 of this Article, the pension society will pay the difference between the Peace Fund and the guaranteed contribution from the guaranteed deposit from the pension society's funds. As a guarantee of the guaranteed contribution referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, a special guarantee fund will be established which falls under the burden of the pension society's assets. The Agency will provide for a special regulation to open the management of the accounting, payment obligation and payment deadlines to the guarantee fund." The second amendment applies to Article 63(4), which reads as follows: "Until the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union if the annual contribution of the Mandatory Pension Fund during the period from the previous three calendar years is less than the guaranteed contribution under paragraph 1 of this Article, the pension society will pay the difference between the Peace Fund and the guaranteed contribution from the guarantee fund, and if that is not enough from the capital of the pension society to the highest 80% of the capital of the company and the remaining amount is the obligation of the state budget." In fact, this amendment confirms what was in the explanation and the proposal in the second reading, that these funds are still mandatory to further invest in government bonds more than 50%, so when the commitment expires, that is, during that transitional period, this second amendment has been adopted to preserve the capital of the funds. This is why the Croatian Democratic Community club is exposed to everything. It supports the final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90709	Thank you. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Final review, Ministry of Economy State Secretary, Labour and Entrepreneurship Vera Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90710	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank the participants in the debate on the final draft law. I think that, of course, that shows your discussions, and I think that with this final proposal we have succeeded in respecting everything we heard during the debate in the first reading, that we have succeeded in installing in the final proposal those solutions that have affirmed the system. I will agree with the debate of Mr. Representative Church, who said that besides this Law that has its area of regulation, it is certainly necessary to take care of harmonisation with other regulations concerning the pension system, the fact is that the pension system which is now based on three pillars is still a relatively new solution in Croatia, that young people should certainly be repeated and alerted to the fact that long-term savings on the one hand means social security, but on the other hand also means the potential of economic growth to ensure the development of creation or the creation of new jobs. In any case, the strategy promoted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia highlights the fact and need for further strengthening and others, and in particular the third pillar of pension insurance, demographic change, the openness of the Republic of Croatia to the world market, the competition that the government will definitely require in social policy, sustainability and fiscal sustainability and policy, its effectiveness, but also to put it into function of social and economic development. Thank you very much for transferring the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90711	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote on part of the debate. Please, let's get on with it! 1. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. State Secretary Vera Babic. Amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90713	Thank you very much. All amendments, Mr. President, the government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90714	That's those five amendments. Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Contracting Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area (‘the EEA Agreement’), as amended
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90715	Mr. President! The amendments are acceptable, so I would just like to warn you, since amendments to the Legislative Committee, the first amendment, are no longer required to call on the second sentence, no reference to paragraph 2 is required. Therefore, the number and 2 should be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90716	It's accepted by the club. It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90717	What about Amendment 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90718	Amendment 2...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90719	The second amendment, Mr. President, is also widely acceptable. I would like to warn that the amendment of the Legislative Committee has already changed the approach to reception, so in that sense it would be a correction to this amendment. It is also necessary not to refer to paragraph 1 of this Article for the reasons of the previous amendments adopted, but to Article 23. The law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90720	The HDZ Club accepts this amended amendment. Well, in that part, it becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Vote? The result? With 80 votes for, 5 abstentions, the proposed law in the text proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted. We move to the next point - Final proposal of the Law on the Student Assembly and other student organisations, second reading of P.Z. No. 636 The Proposer of the Law is Government. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Slobodan Download will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90722	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will focus my brief exposure on the differences that have arisen in these two texts, noting that this current proposal, and that the debate that was conducted in the first reading follows the fundamental concept of the law, the concept of which is the first text proposal. It's basically seven elements, seven questions I'll ask if you let me point out briefly. The first question concerns the assignments of the Student Assembly. That's article 5. In fact, the reason for this amendment is the need to write down only those tasks of the Student Assembly that involve its representative function. I remind you of the debate that was conducted in the first reading in which it was an observation that we respected. The second amendment concerns Article 8(2), which concerns the tasks of the Croatian Student Assembly, namely the roof body of this student representative organisation. The reason for accepting this is the need to write down only the co-ordinated tasks of the Croatian Student Assembly, bodies that are in their nature a coordinating body. Third, this is article 6 paragraph 3. It's about the termination of the student assembly's term of office. In fact, there was a need to include in the text the term and term of the SETS loan, the SETS point, which is what applies to students who study according to the Bologna model, and to keep both, given that some of the students are studying according to earlier programmes that know the term and term of the study year. The fourth question is issues that are governed by the student assembly statutes. In order to ensure that the Statute of the Student Assembly regulates the responsibility of the body and members of the Student Assembly for the possible non-fulfilment of their entrusted tasks relating to the work of the Student Assembly in such a way as to meet the needs of each student assembly, this amendment shall be made in Article 7(2). Next, it's a question of law, who has the right to report for a grant to finance student programmes. In order to ensure that it does not arrive, to close the space so that there can be a conflict of interest in the student choir that calls for a competition for student programmes and also the same choir reports its programme and proposes to the higher university to which the funds for student programmes will be allocated the need to close this space. The same need occurred when it comes to members of the Competition Committee when they are also members of a student organisation who has applied for a competition programme or students of individuals who report the programme, their programme to the competition. Furthermore, Article 13(2) is about the supervision of the activities of student organisations, I recall that there was a relatively extensive debate on the issue. We accepted the arguments that were made. Therefore, this is the reason for the need to remove the ambiguity of the exercise of supervision. It is clear from this formulation that it is an internal control carried out by a higher school on which the student organisation operates, rather than an administrative oversight normally carried out by the authorities of the state administration, to what was the earlier formulation which precisely reads the supervision of the legality of labour and general acts. At the same time, this ensures that controls are carried out at exactly the level at which student organisations operate, at which level the same level is kept records of student organisations and at the level at which these student organisations are co-financed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is about the time in which future elections for student choirs and the duration of the term of office of members of the Student Assembly would be held for the first time chosen under this new Law. The reason for this is the need to harmonise the legal provisions on the duration of the term of office and the time to hold the elections, i.e. to prescribe the duration of the term of office of members of the Student Assembly elected under the new law, given that they are likely to say for sure now, that mandate will last less than two years. Here, these are Mr. President of the Basic, the important things I considered necessary to point out to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90723	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90724	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In our first reading, we supported this bill. We will support it in a second reading, namely, because we support the idea that a student representation and student organisation is being arranged on different grounds at all, because since '96. when it's formed... The student assembly, through the abolition of the law, etc., to sort of cut short, there were too many affairs, there were too many financial embezzlements, negative findings of state audits, but some political polygons or better said politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, the Student Associations that existed until this proposal had no formal framework for their activities, were not supported in their work, received no funds or, if they had received, were granted political similarity criteria. The student elections were somewhere marked by the minimum student turnout and were actually singles for individuals. We from the SDP are somewhat sorry that none of our four more serious remarks that we had on the occasion of the first reading of the law were adopted in this final draft of the law. And we would like to repeat these remarks, write down the amendments, and please, Mr. President, on behalf of the club, if it is possible to extend the time for amendments until at least tomorrow morning, not until the end of the debate, because a little past-the-line debate has come without opinion and debate at all on the parent board. So the first remark. The student assembly continues to implement student projects although it is now both formal and real and nominally defined as a representative body which should be, therefore, an electoral representative body and cannot implement projects. It continues to streamline the article that it can implement projects. I mean opening up, that way we're opening up old problems again instead of closing down the old ones we used to have. Second. There has been a lot of debate about this in the first reading, but the fact that even the final bill does not foresee the legal personality of the Croatian Student Assembly at national level as a national roof student organisation or representative organisation is unprecedented in Europe. No top national student organisation in Europe exists without legal personality except Croatia. Third. We said in our first reading that it's good that students, students can't be some who repeat the year or don't collect at least 60 ECTS over two academic years. It's a good thing you changed that into ECTS. However, regardless of some way of earning conditionally... professional student representatives who moved from college to college, so they were two years representatives of one college, two years of the second, two years of the third, so we already have people who are six or eight years old representatives of the second year of something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think there's a way to avoid it, maybe explain a little bit, so to prevent that move from college to college. And a fourth. We regret that our observation that an independent lawyer's position is slightly strengthened has not been accepted. We agree with the introduction of the institution of a student lawyer, and we think he should be given a formula that would guarantee him the impediment in his work. And we said in our first reading that we think primarily of protection from professors, because many students who represent the interests of students what they have to because they're student lawyers, again to those professors who, by some... They resent, they come for the exam. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there we had examples of at least us who were in that student scene or something we followed, very often testify to cases, very often subtle, but due to the very developmental influences of some professors, on such students who simply did their job as student representatives. Allow only a few remarks which we will allow if the President of the Parliament allows us to do so in the form of an amendment. Therefore, in Article 5, where the tasks of the Student Assembly are to be thrown out this indent, which says that the Student Assembly encourages outside the teaching activity of students. So, if they're concerned about the student, the plan and the program of the student assembly, the student standard, the achievement of student rights and other issues, I don't think I know how they got in and out of teaching. And they are, and under that formula, there is a good part of the embezzlement of the former structures of the Student Assembly. I mean, I'm thinking of doing some chess tournaments, and I don't know what the state audit hasn't found. Keep going. In Article 8, I say, in addition to defining the Croatian Student Assembly as a body that has legal personality, we believe that in paragraph 3. we should add that the Rules of Procedure on the work and acts of these Croatian Student Assembly, to come into effect not only when it is confirmed by these majority of the student choirs, universities, universities and higher schools, but also by a rector's assembly, so somewhere like the pandan with the senates of the universities or the councils of certain higher schools, it still has some kind of control. Article 15, which defines the elections. In our first reading, we had a lot of discussion about election dates. The elections are scheduled to take place between March 15th and March 30th of each other's academic year. We think it would be wise for those elections to take place in November. Most of the student projects that are going on, is happening in this exactly as you would say between January and June, most of the projects and our and international projects are at that exact time. If, therefore, some student representatives are on the 30th of March, until all this is over, they will enter into office conditionally, so at the end of April, in early June. Then the deadlines are tested, then it's already a difficult form and actually very few people are actually engaged in this kind of representation. And then we've actually been losing more than a semester since we were two years old. Then the beginning of the year again, and nobody does anything, and then New Year's Eve comes, so there's only two or three months left in the two-year term for the election itself. I mean, we're not gonna insist on that. There's been a lot of discussion about that. But when you look at the reality that's in colleges and universities that's very different from the nice things on paper, it seems to us to be smarter. And in Article 17, we would like you to write as a proposing some amendments that would now strengthen the independent position of a student lawyer or student lawyer. But we would also like to put in paragraphs 3rd, 3rd indents, which says that a student lawyer can participate in strict proceedings against students in order to protect their rights that he is currently participating because it is his job description. Not that he can't, but that's exactly what he's doing. So this law is a step forward. Far from what he's about to do, he's going to change the student scene a little bit. A lot depends on how the Bologna itself will be implemented in the section relating to the position and positioning of students within the new system itself because we are still despite the declaration that students are somewhere in the first place counting everything according to professors and professorial burdens. So as long as we don't really put the students in 1st place and in the focus of studying at least in this teaching part of the university, universities and high schools then, of course, these things will be more or less on paper beautiful, and in fact they won't change anything in practice. And to say in the end we will support this final bill with that we would really like to part of the amendment as yours improves these certain details that we have discussed not only here in the Parliament but also in the discussions between the two readings of the law because they... things, I repeat the independence of the student lawyer, the legal personality of the Croatian Student Assembly in such or such form deserves this small, small step. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90725	Thank you. Well, given the Committee on Education, Science and Culture for objective reasons, it has failed to discuss this proposal for a second reading. Then tomorrow, at 3:00, you have time for your amendments, until 3:00. Representative Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone, she's losing her word. Representative Ivan Bagarić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Final Review State Secretary Free Taker.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90726	I'll be brief. Mr. President, first of all, I call upon the representative to amend, I mean, a good part of them seems reasonable to us. There's no problem because we've arranged them. But let me say one thing about perhaps the biggest question in your discussion that has come up is that of our proposal, which is the question of the legal personality of the Croatian Student Assembly. I'm the last time, we've explained it thoroughly, we still don't see the necessity for such a thing. We ran the parallel of the rector's choir. Students have the right to their own organizations. Other organizations that have legal personality are not controversial. But this is about the coordinate body. As such, the coordinating body does not have that role nor does it need it and we do not see really any necessary, necessary need to, to have it. And secondly, secondly, to point out to her about the misunderstanding, I'd say about the student choir's right to participate in a project competition. It says explicitly here that he can't participate in a contest he's calling himself. On someone else why can't you participate? Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will carefully consider any amendments and I suppose some and accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90727	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. So tomorrow the board, you put Mr. President on board. Amendments until 3:00. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law on student choirs and other student organisations? We've got the plates on the amendment. State Secretary Free Taker. Amendment 1. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90729	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90730	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment 2 of the same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90731	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90732	It's part of the Law. 3rd Representatives Franjo Arapovic and Ivan Bagaric?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90733	And that one's accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90734	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 4th representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90735	He's not being accepted. Here's a brief explanation. It is not possible to accept that formulation because in cases where the High School calls for a tender for funding of the programme from its resources to decide on those programmes, representatives of the Student Assembly would necessarily participate in the event of a possible conflict of interest in the event of the application of its programme to that student assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90736	Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90737	Well, I think it's more of a conflict of interest when the student assembly itself de facto imposes a decision on the University of Higher Education. And in addition, I really think that this formulation is contrary to other regulations because we have one body that gives a binding opinion, a binding decision to one legal person who decides on his financial resources. I'm afraid even this formulation is on the verge of constitutionality and there will be serious problems. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90738	Please vote. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? The result? Twenty-two for it. Three abstentions. 58 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90739	This is an amendment to Article 16(1). This amendment is not accepted either. Here's an explanation. This has already been regulated in another way, and the introduction of the proposed supplement would lead to a conflict between Articles 15 and 16. The law. In accordance with Articles 15 and 16 respectively, Article 15(6) states that a special general act of the Student Assembly shall prescribe an electoral procedure and, in particular, an objection to the course and results of the election procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90740	The president of the board?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90741	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90742	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. Six. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90743	This amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90744	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Seven. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90745	This is an amendment to Article 19(3), paragraph 5. This amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90746	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the final draft of the law, thank you Secretary of State. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 81 votes for and one abstention, the Law on the Student Assembly and other student organisations in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Let's go to the next point: - Proposed law on public procurement, first reading, P.Z. E. No. 694. The proposer is a law, is a government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget. And the Committee on European Integration. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Ante Zigman will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90748	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is proposing in the first reading of the Public Procurement Act. Why the new law? The total value of all registered public procurement in 2006 was almost 30 billion kuna and almost 12% of gross domestic products, respectively. So it's a very valuable and very important topic that the government wants to improve and further regulate this new law. In terms of value, the contracts of more than 200,000 kuna were prevailed, and as regards the items of purchase over half the purchases concerned the purchase of works. In total, more than 43,000 public procurement contracts were concluded, and 63.27% were covered in that open procedure structure. To a limited procedure of 10.83% and to a negotiating process 25.89% of total public procurement. The main tasks of adopting this law are, above all, the reform of the public procurement system in line with European legislation. So compliance with European rules. The introduction of new provisions of European law in the field of public procurement. Full market opening of public procurement and free competition. Full compliance with the legislation in the field of public procurement in accordance with the commitments made under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and meeting the requirements in accordance with the negotiations with the European Commission and the opening of Chapter 5 of Public Procurement. The proposal for a public procurement law is based on proposals from the European Commission in the process of an analytical review and an assessment of the compliance of Croatian legislation in the field of public procurement, etc. screening with the acquis of the European Union, experience in current practice and recommendations in public procurement procedures. In fact, a number of shortcomings such as the non-compliance of national legislation with EU legislation have been observed in the current law. As I have already said, the numerous shortcomings in the legal framework that make it considered that the public procurement process itself is long and complex, overly formalised and conservative. The incompleteness of the existing legal framework in a number of areas related to the public procurement system. The existing legal framework is insufficient and does not cover all cases that appear in practice. Unsatisfactory organisational structure as one of the limiting factors and in the development of an effective public procurement system. First of all, he thinks about education, additional education for people who are engaged in public procurement and so on. Insufficient number of professional staff in competent authorities which prevents a quality and efficient public procurement system. Insufficient level of professional training of all employees involved in public procurement procedures. Low level of information on the procurement process. So there's no system that allows so-called. e-procurement. And the inadequateness of statistical and numerical monitoring of public procurement as a result of the lack of development of the information system. Therefore, in this respect, the monitoring of public procurement is not in a certain way analytically and statistically followed. What are the new elements of the bill and its objectives ahead of you? First of all, the main objective is to establish a fully efficient, efficient, transparent and coherent public procurement system through improving public finances management, establishing an optimal relationship between invested public funds and acquired value, promoting free competition, reducing administrative burdens, preventing corruption and crime, preserving the environment, promoting excellence and effective legal protection. The proposal for a law is set out as a single regulation containing provisions on the conditions and arrangements for the implementation of the public procurement procedure of all values including provisions relating to legal protection. The proposal contains 190 articles, which is two and a half times the scope of the current law. The law contains 8 parts, General Provisions, Public procurement procedure for contracting authorities, Special provisions for water supply, energy, transport and postal services, Small value purchases, Legal protection, Public procurement office, Infringement provisions and Transitional and Final Provisions. What brings us this new law? The new law adopts new public procurement institutes such as competition dialogue, dynamic procurement systems, framework agreements and public procurement flows. What is important, the new electronic system of public publication in the electronic advertising of public procurement, the public publication in the electronic advertising of all procurement procedures of more than 50 thousand kunas, the possibility of e-procurement of public procurement procedures, the simplification of administrative conditions, the proof of the ability of economic operators, the public opening of tenders with the possibility of being present to each person, regardless of whether the participant is a public procurement process, the contracting authorities do not have to carry out any public procurement procedure prescribed by the proposal for the values of less than 50 thousand kuna, an effective legal protection procedure through the possibility of controlling the procurement process and the investment of complaints at all stages of the procedure. What do you want, what effects are expected? Incentives and actions on competition, therefore in order to establish a transparent process, to reduce the administrative burden on the bidder through standardisation of the offer documentation, to prevent relations by reducing corruption and crime, a positive effect of the change in the public procurement system is expected. So in Croatia, according to some studies, there is therefore considered to be a so-called the contractual corruption which, in this sense, is trying to remove itself with this law. Preserving and protecting the environment as an environmental care promotion measure as one of the criteria for selecting the most favourable offer, saving time and money by using the electronic procurement, education and improvement system in order to improve the implementation of the public procurement process is necessary for education and continuous training of employees. Finally, in line with all the above, it is necessary to stress that the proposal of the Public Procurement Act has primarily the characteristics of dynamism, flexibility in all its objectives in order to allow for the complexity of all the processes in the public procurement system to be taken into account. Namely, the importance of the legal arrangement in the area of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia implies full harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis of the European Union and implementation and direct correct application in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90749	Thank you. Legislative, Finance and State Budget Committees, European Integrations? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90750	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. We have before us a proposal for a Public Procurement Act. That's another one in a whole series of laws marked P.Z.E. So one of the laws that our legislation is in line with European Union legislation. Certainly, public procurement is a very important segment of the functioning of the rule of law. And that's because the state more today, the modern state, has not only the elements of the bureaucratic part of administrative and administrative matters but the state is very often today both investor and investor and entrepreneur. So on that side, a large part of the money from the state budget is directed into various activities. Of course, the interest in using this money in a transparent way but at the same time also in an effective way that the whole process, so that the whole process would not be burdensome and de facto excessive administration would lead to a certain reduction in the value of the money and to certain difficult elements in this process. As the Secretary of State has already said, the current system has been a little harsh, the current system has very much foreseen strict administrative rules and, therefore, on the basis of the European Union's experience on the basis of the directives which apply to the EU legislation, and this law is based on the principles that are generally adopted. Because, of course, tomorrow when we become a full member of the European Union, it is very important that we have one compatible system, especially in this area of public procurement. Part of the provision contained in this law is based on the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Community itself and ultimately contains those solutions already common in the European Community. The first reason for the introduction of rules harmonising public procurement procedures is that there are different ways in which national authorities can influence the behaviour of entities, including the share in their capital and participation in the administrative or supervisory bodies of those entities. The second reason why procurement procedures applied by operators operating in those sectors should be harmonised is the restriction of the markets on which they operate because of the existence of specific or exclusive rights conferred by the competent authorities regarding the supply, provision and operation of networks for the provision of services in question. What is the content of the Public Procurement Act? The public procurement law contains all the essential provisions necessary to regulate one such area. It shall contain provisions on public procurement procedures for contracting authorities, in particular provisions for contracting entities in water supply, energy, transport and postal services, provisions relating to the purchase of small values, provisions which determine and prescribe legal protection, provisions relating to the organisation of the powers and status of the Public Procurement Office, infringement provisions, transitional and final provisions, general provisions and, in particular, to a very precise concept where the concepts set out in this law are set out. The thresholds prescribed and mandatory application of the Directives and the publication of purchases at European Union level, which are dependent on the type of application of the law, are generally more than EUR 137 000 for goods and services, and EUR 5 million and EUR 278,000 for works. The draft law provides for national arrangements for procurement procedures in the same way for all purchases of more than 200 thousand kunas for goods and services and over 300 thousand kunas for works, as well as simpler public publication and significantly shorter procurement deadlines of more than 50 thousand kunas to those values. The fundamental changes in relation to the applicable law are, as already said, significantly greater transparency and the public procurement process, and these are primarily a complete description of each procurement process other than the usual law and new public procurement procedures, which is competition dialogue. Also special procurement methods, dynamic procurement system, framework agreement, framework contract is also regulated by the new electronic system of public publication in the electronic public procurement advertiser then public publication in the electronic public procurement adverter of all procurement procedures of greater value than 50,000 kuna. Unique public procurement dictionary, electronic supply offers, electronic auction, public opening with the possibility of each person being present regardless of whether the bidder is in the procurement process. The possibility of taking into account offers other than those protected by special law, shorter and faster legal protection procedures, the control of procedures only within the framework of the request, the possibility of controlling the procurement process and the investment of requests at all stages of the procurement process, the quality of new powers and the organisation of public procurement offices in terms of preventive and instructive action and through regular training and certification of employees or participants in the procurement process. The Framework Agreement and the dynamic system of procurement are specific means of procurement used only in specific cases, and it is also allowed under the Directives that, prior to the start of the procurement process, contracting authorities may seek or accept advice that can be used in the preparation of the envisaged specifications, provided that such advice does not have an effect on the prevention of competition. It is important here to note that some of the provisions of the draft law are stricter than those laid down in the Directives, for example, the proposal for this law stipulates that the entities involved in the preparation of the documentation cannot participate as tenderers anymore. The proposal for a law concerns the obligation to publish and those procurement procedures which are excluded from the application of the law and to which the Directives apply. This proposal also requires mandatory publication of the negotiation procedure without prior public publication. The draft law lays down almost the same rules for all purchase values, extending the scope of mandatory evidence of ability. In view of the expansion of electronic purchasing systems, appropriate rules are introduced here to enable contracting authorities to make full use of the opportunities provided by these systems. In view of this, it is necessary to define a fully electronic dynamic purchasing system for the most frequently used purchases and to establish certain rules for the establishment and management of such a system. It is also important in this law that certain centralised procurement techniques are allowed, several contracting authorities may be interested in the conclusion of public procurement contracts, framework agreements for other contracting authorities. The service area is also best demonstrated for the purposes of applying procedural rules in accordance with Directives and for the purpose of supervision by dividing further into categories corresponding to the specific sections of the common qualification. The contracts which are specific, public procurement contracts concluded by water supply, energy, transport and postal services suppliers covered by these activities are covered by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March. In view of the situation of effective competition in the telecommunications sector following the implementation of Community rules aimed at liberalising the sector, public procurement contracts in this area are excluded from the scope of the Directive and hence this bill to the extent to which they are primarily designed to enable contracting authorities to carry out certain activities in the telecommunications sector. Employment and occupation are key elements in guaranteeing equal opportunities for all and contributing to society integration. In this context, protected workshops and protected employment programmes effectively contribute to the integration and reintegration of people with disabilities into the labour market. However, such workshops may not be possible to obtain a contract on normal conditions of competition and it is therefore provided that such workshops have the right to participate in the procedures of awarding public procurement contracts or that they can book the implementation of contracts for the context of protected employment programmes, which we consider to be a good solution. One of the particulars is also related to the proposal for this law that the contracting authority may limit the number of competitors in restricted and negotiating procedures by publishing the information in the procurement and competitive conversation. This reduction in the number of competitors should take place on the basis of the objective criteria set out in the procurement notice, and these objective criteria do not necessarily imply the importance. For criteria relating to the personal situation of an economic operator, sufficient general guidance may be given in the procurement notice. This proposal also allows the law to draw up official lists of contractors, suppliers or service providers or certification system by public or private bodies and provides provisions for the effects of such registration or such certifications in the procedures of the award of contracts in another Member State. As regards the official lists of authorised economic operators, it is important to take into account the case law of the European Court of Justice in cases where the economic operator of the group requests the recognition of the right to the economic, financial or technical capacity of other companies in the group in support of its application for registration in the Official Journal. In this case, it is on an economic operator to prove that these resources will really be available to it during the duration of the period of validity of the enrolment. For the purposes of this entry, Member States may determine the level of requirements to be met and, for example, if an economic operator is entitled to the financial situation of another company in the group, it may request that the company be considered responsible if necessary together or individually. The contracts are concluded on the basis of objective criteria which ensure compliance with the principle of transparency, non-discrimination and the principles of equal treatment and which guarantee that tenders are assessed in terms of effective competition. As a result, it is appropriate to allow only two criteria to be applied at the lowest price and the most economically favourable offer. As regards legal protection, the proposal for a law allows for a much faster and more effective legal protection procedure compared to the current legal solutions and for the control of the procurement process at all stages of the procurement procedure from the date of the opening of the procurement procedure until the conclusion of the contract. Legal protection in the field of public procurement in relation to existing provisions on legal protection contains important changes in the jurisdiction, exercise and conduct of the control procedure and other actions related to full and complete legal protection in those proceedings, with the competent national body carrying out legal protection activities in the field of public procurement and public procurement control as well as so far the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The proposal for a Public Procurement Act requires that the new legal protection mechanisms in the area of legal protection in the public procurement process may be negotiated throughout the procedure before the State Commission. As regards the Office for Public Procurement, the jurisdiction of the Office for Public Procurement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a professional service of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as it is a real competence and a description of the tasks to be carried out by the body is much broader than the responsibilities of the Government of Croatia. The public procurement office may, in the event of an infringement of the competition, apply for the control of public procurement procedures to the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures. In addition to that competence, the Public Procurement Office is to give an opinion regarding the application of the Public Procurement Act and other sub-legislative regulations, the education and certification of persons engaged in public procurement, the publication of public procurement bulletins, the management of an electronic public procurement portal, the development of a total public procurement system and other transactions established by other regulations. Therefore, the proposal for this Law contains a whole series of newspapers, a whole series of new institutes that should certainly lead to a system of public procurement being significantly more dynamic, more flexible, but also more efficient than the existing system. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90751	Thank you. For the SDP club, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90752	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. So I think this law, or the Law on Public Procurement, deserves the special interest of representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the entire Parliament. Why? So the Public Procurement Act regulates how the public procurement process is spent, we have now heard the circus 12% of the annual gross domestic product. So it's about spending a few dozen billion kunas on Croatian citizens. The bill, and this is highlighted by the government, has 190 articles and plus several additions. It is therefore very important to assess whether the Law is written in simple legal language to enable the application of the principle of economicism and yes, we advocate opening a broad public debate and possibly reaching political consensus in the Croatian Parliament. At the same time, the translation of some directives and legal concepts in this Bill proposal confirms the inequality and inequity of the Croatian legal system as a whole, and in particular public procurement systems for Croatian needs. There are many concepts that confuse, and should be crystallinely clear about public procurement relations, clearly not only for participants in the public procurement process, but also for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and this proposal does not satisfy this bill. The aim and purpose of the Public Procurement Act is to protect citizens' interests by respecting the principle of the free market, so as cheap as possible, as well as in front of the public's eyes to obtain goods and services, to order works in the public sector according to the principles that apply in Europe, as well as with us. Therefore, the principle of equal treatment of participants in the process, the principle of banning discrimination against bidders in public procurement and the principle that this is constantly said transparency, and I would translate the principle of procedure in front of the entire Croatian public. What are the reasons for the new Public Procurement Act being adopted? There's two of them. The obligation to comply with the law, not legislation as it says here, legislation cannot be brought into line because it is a Parliament and its activity with the laws of the European Union. Next, the opening of public procurement markets to free competition throughout the European Union. It's actually a denationalization of public procurement. This is a complete, definitive denationalisation of public procurement, hence the funds of taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia cannot protect beyond the criteria laid down in this Act. The question now arises whether Croatia has raised the ability of its entities to compete in public proceedings for obtaining jobs or providing services in this area. If, therefore, the national authority would influence or may influence or wish to affect the protection of national interests in accordance with this Act, of course, I would be immediately to adopt this Act without any reservation. But is that so? Have we trained our entities to compete with European Union entities in the procurement process? Is the Government ready to take responsibility for such public procurement? According to previous experience, public procurement in Croatian practice contributes more to the perception of corruption in Croatian society than it contributes to the protection of national interests and public money of Croatian taxpayers. That's why we've brought out several times as valid and never disputed examples. One of the examples I've set here is from the People's Newspaper. The contest at 12 months last year, right before Christmas. The conditions of a project worth half a billion or 500 million kuna are changed in order to give the negotiation process to a particular company, which receives such jobs in the rules. Then my application came from representatives of the European Union in Croatia that the tender for tunnel editing on the Zagreb-Rijeka highway had been announced, that the offer of a foreign company was 10 million less than our company's offer, and then the competition was annulled so that our company would get a job for a higher price than it offered in the competition, without changing the project and for no reason for such a change. If we add to that today, the highway in the full profile is more expensive for cca. 40m euros from the planned, then we cannot say, but in practice, in Croatia there is a public procurement process that contributes to the creation of the perception of corruption, not to the protection of national interests in the consumption of public money. Of course, there are good solutions that will certainly open up the possibility of a more economical public procurement process. One of these solutions has already been mentioned by a proposing representative. This is a different, somewhat better defined role of the Public Procurement Office which has preventive and instructive action in removing irregularities in the public procurement procedure without stopping the procedure but may, if it considers that the principle of the market has been violated, submit a request to the State Commission for the conduct of the public procurement control procedure. If the Government, which is the Government's office, had ensured that this Public Procurement Office was doing its job, it would certainly have made the principle of economics in spending public money much more expressive. The possibility of an agreement or a settlement before the State Commission should also be supported. Of course, it opens up a great deal of responsibility to the state commission, not to miss the principles on which this law rests, so that there is no agreement between those who will reach a settlement before the Commission, but rather to make it public, transparent and responsible. In the process of electronic procurement, I must immediately say that I hope that Croatia will not lag behind in front of the countries of the European Union and the European Union as a whole. What I know about the development of electronic media in the Republic of Croatia, I think we're on the right track. There is something that is not intended as a special part of the law, so all norms relate to the obligation of a classical competition and in an electronic procedure which cannot be the same case at all. When it comes to nomotechnics itself, I think we should point to several examples. Here, let's just say at the beginning. I guess that's the translation problem. A contract on public procurement is a contract with financial interests. That's what lawyers would say, it's a legal job, a billing job. And right behind that, all other types of contract are listed, so it defines what is the subject of the contract, not what kind of legal work it is. For example, when it comes to Article 16 The proposal for a law lays down that a public procurement procedure cannot even be initiated unless the funds are secured. And in the same article, the conditions for a decision to be made and to assign a job or to obtain goods, says the offerer must indicate the source rather than provide the funds. Or a way to secure those funds. So there's a lot of need for this law to be brought into line in that sense. In the end, let me just say the translation thing again. The infringement procedure prescribed by this law cannot be initiated after two years from the date of the infringement. This would mean that the limitation is calculated for two years for the initiation of the procedure. To initiate the procedure. It's okay. But it's old-fashioned anyway. And what does that mean anyway? Now I would have to guess what it is in any case when a double time has elapsed since the infraction of paragraph 1.? That would mean that you can't even enforce sanctions, you can't conduct a procedure, you can't handle an absolute statute of limitations. But then you should also write that there's no question what it's about, anyway, what's this about? Therefore, I hope that practice will confirm the good intensities of this law. And I am not sure that because this law is good for the European Union will in itself be good for Croatia if the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not ensure that the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not act as preventively as planned in the previous procedure. For the first reading of the SDP club will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90753	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90754	I have to say that my colleague, Leckie, probably slipped away, so he incorrectly said that in Article 16(5), he was in a collapsing situation in paragraph 1, which is not true. For paragraph 1 states that funds must be provided. It is then said in a statement using a passive and in paragraph 5 when it is said that the decision to initiate the procurement procedure must contain the following information on the source and method of the means provided. So, throughout the article the funds must be secured here, you can laugh but this is a significant difference between what is said, that they should be provided or that already provided means must be secured in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90755	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90756	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. I think there is a very important one in front of us and I would say a complex one, I dare say even a rather complicated law, and I support the views of the Committee, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget which have made certain remarks regarding this proposed law. In any event, the Government Regulations, which should be eight, will clarify certain dilemmas and misunderstandings to ensure that this law is not only of quality but of being operational in its implementation and that those to which it relates in the case of the contracting authorities as well as the tenderers to be, to be clear, precise. We know that perception in the Croatian public when it comes to public procurement in the 1990s, while we had the Law on the supply of goods and services and the admission of works and later the 2001 Law on Public Procurement, the amendments and additions that were made in 2005 that in some way always caused great public attention and I would say even a good part that was reserved for the implementation of all provisions of the current law. Officials in Article 3 shall, as so far, remain the meaning of the State, the local self-government unit, public undertakings and all beneficiaries of the state budget and all those making certain investments and where the funds of the state budget and the budget of the units of local self-government exceed 50% of the funding of such procedures. The principles set out in Article 6 of the public procurement principle are well set out. First of all, transparency, ban on discrimination, mutual recognition and the same treatment of all bidders. As far as the threshold is concerned, I haven't had the opportunity to consult my colleagues in the municipal sector for a short time because I used to work in that section for 6.7 years. However, there have been various proposals since the previous discussions on the old law, but I consider these provisions when it comes to the 200 advertising obligation when it comes to services, or the works of 300 thousand kuna, yes, that is a good and solid proposal for our terms. What I would say and what is important to me is the newspaper which, on the one hand, will mean a relief for public procurement when it comes to the contracting authorities, when it comes to bonds. In the first instance, I think that these are framework agreements in Article 114 as defined where local self-government and state institutions are allowed, mainly to the municipal sector which has repeatedly had objections to the existing previous law, means that framework agreements can be concluded up to 48 months and with selected bidders, and that the basis of those agreements should not be published every year in the case of the annual supply of goods and services, goods. Of course, the provisions of the article relating to the relations of the contracting authority on the one hand and the tenderers on the other hand guarantee one greater trust, one, between one and the other. I think that's very important in terms of philosophy itself and the very approach of the law. I'd like to mention article 64 where I see a chance for small and medium-sized enterprises. Namely, when it comes to major procedures, major works, more complex works, then the providers, or contractors or service providers, could only be those individuals, only those companies and those companies who, under the current provisions of the law, could and should have carried out a minimum of 51% of the works. However, this law does not specify it, and I don't think that, in fact, it's not defined and I think that that way, with the contractor of the business with whom the contract is concluded, it doesn't have to be, it doesn't have to be a restriction that was so far, and that's where I see a chance exactly for smaller companies and companies that will be cooperatives with larger business operators. In any case, the criteria so far have been prevailing and that's the price. We've got some newspapers here. In this regard, I also welcome the provisions relating to the most economically favourable offer. And certainly, when it comes to bidders, I think that when it comes to new technologies and offers certain solutions, technical solutions, especially if it comes to the purchase of special equipment, then it is possible for the contracting authority to determine how it is referred to in Article 79 of the alternative offer. In other words, different technical solutions are given the opportunity and, since often when it comes to the new market, and new opportunities that the market offers, now the contracting authorities are given a particular newspaper, certain products, certain technical, technological principles do not have to be known, and this provision puts the client in a position to get solutions, to get solutions and what should be stated in public procurement. To get solutions that are more adequate, which are more adequate. In any case, I hope that until the final draft of the law means that until the second reading, certain dilemmas will be removed from one side. On the other hand, it will be an opportunity for us MPs to work on the ground and consult local self-government units, with public enterprises, municipal companies to make certain proposals and remarks that can lead to a new quality in the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90757	Thank you. Dear Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90758	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The public procurement system regulated by the proposal for this law shall, inter alia, regulate the conditions and procedures for public procurement that precede the conclusion of a contract for the purchase of goods and services and the entry into force of works for the effective use of budgetary resources and the promotion of the free market. The supply of goods is relatively simple. If a specification is properly defined on the basis of which it can undoubtedly be established that the goods offered are indeed in line with the price offered. The selection of the most favourable offer, the conclusion of the contract, payment and takeover of the contracted goods enables the contracting authority to make economic use of the procurement in question. In particular, it should be pointed out that two types of services appear in the area of supply and services for which the solution and services for which the solution is not known in advance are pre-determined. A procedure for the supply of goods may be applied to services for which the solution is known in advance. For services for which no pre-known solution can be detailed and obtained in the public procurement procedure as goods. Services for which the solution is not known in advance include services of category 12 of annex 2A. The proposal for a law is not detailed in the procurement of public services of category 12 of Proposal 2A because it is not about selecting offers at the lowest price but from the bidder expected the best solution. Services for which a solution is not known in advance include design services. If they are subject to the selection process of the lowest price offer, not in the selection process of the bidder, which is expected to be the best solution you often order with public authorities cannot get the best solution. Such a solution often causes difficulties for contractors during the performance of works, and for investors additional costs that may be significantly higher than planned. It is therefore necessary to regulate in more detail the proposal for a public procurement law of 12 chapters 2A. In my assessment, it is also not clearly arranged period after the conclusion of the contract until the acquisition of public works, i.e. cases of procurement by the contracting authority. After the conclusion of the contract, a series of conditions appear during the performance and takeover of construction works that should be dealt with in due time and which at the time of selecting the best, the most favourable offer could not have been provided in advance or for which the contractor cannot make a decision without a projector or a public tender. The difficulties may arise as a result of the incompetence of the contractor, inadequately designed project, incorrect descriptions of certain types of work or quantities in the cost but also due to failure to comply with the obligations of the contracting authority. The contracting authority shall appear as a partner in the exercise of economic matters and subject to the rules of economic law. It is therefore necessary to lay down the rules under which the procedure must take place, not only the entry of works and the conclusion of contracts, but the procedure for the performance and takeover of works by, until the full completion or economic use of the procurement, and thus the rules to which the performer and the contracting authority act. As the procurement process under the Bill proposal ends with the selection of the most favourable offer and the conclusion of the contract, the course of implementation of works in which significant difficulties arises is not regulated which leads to negative effects for both the performer and the contracting authority. Only after the full performance of the works carried out by the technical examination, obtaining the applicable authorisation and carrying out the final calculation may it be considered that the procurement has been made and that the contracting authority has enabled the economic use of the procurement concerned. It would therefore be free to propose in certain articles of the draft law supplementing these shortcomings. So I suggest adding a new paragraph 7 in Article 9 which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt a regulation on general contractual conditions for the implementation of construction works." In fact, Mr. Secretary of State here is proposed in Article 6. Regulation on the methodology for preparing the evaluation of the implementation of investment projects. In the light of the law, it is not written anywhere what this regulation represents. That to me, I don't think that's what I'm exposed to here. Because the regulation on general contractual conditions for the execution of construction works everywhere in the world is a constituent contract for the performance of works and, by virtue of it, the judicial authorities can make decisions. I would also suggest in Article 12 that the text of the third indent be amended and read as follows: "A fee for designing and other fees and rewards related to the provision of services in the case of a contract involving design operations in accordance with national cash compensation provisions." In our country, this is a rule on the prices of Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers and Construction. I would like to propose this proposal in accordance with paragraph 47. Since 2004, Directive No 18 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 on the coordination of procedures until the award of contracts for public supply of works, public supply of goods and public supply of services does not affect the application of national provisions on monetary compensation for services provided by architects, engineers and lawyers. This means that in the public procurement procedure referred to in Chapter 2A, category 12, national provisions on cash compensation for those cash compensation services, we apply the Regulation on the prices of the Croatian Chamber of Engineers, Architects and, thus, would eliminate that uncertainty in the law. Furthermore, I suggest that a special article be arranged for a design service tender. It is also necessary to regulate the criteria for selecting public services of category 12, Chapter 2A, and it may be you who provided for it in Article 9(6) where you write that a methodology regulation will be adopted. If that's the case, then, of course, my proposals wouldn't have been established, but if they weren't, then it should really be arranged to the end. Furthermore, in Article 72, where the type of description of the procurement in question is written, we suggest adding paragraph 4. "For services where no pre-known solution is a description of the subject of the procurement is a project task defined by the contracting authority." And I would also suggest that the law remove all those misunderstandings about sayings, so I'm only going to say three. Let's say for approval, we have the Croatian permit. Admittably, the recognized person in our house is authorized. The destruction, it's not about destroying us. It's about destroying us. So a series of nomotechnical terms that should not be adapted to what is said in European directives but to introduce our beautiful Croatian words into this law which we all technical people and legal professions know. Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90759	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90760	Thank you, Mr. President. I will take part in this law very briefly, because I still remember the debate that I participated in last time when we discussed the procurement report, the report of the state commission where we have come across from life a series of problems that were almost insurmountable, where a great discretion was left to those who decided in which way to conduct public tenders and where there were major problems, and the most of the problems stemmed from the very long deadlines of the conduct of all participants and from complaints which were then resolved and practically blocked by certain investments for years and several years, and therefore I am glad that this law with a large number of articles had detailedly laid down the models of the conduct of all participants, and I hope that until other readings, therefore, it will be further and improved and that it will remove all what therefore leads to one situation which is not healthy in society, therefore, which does not allow one of all of them to engage in the same kind of business that the need to be able to operate. I will say, therefore, that I particularly welcome the start of Article 15, which he said, and that is good, so what we have been fighting for, that if the company has more than, or a company more than 50 employees, 50% of people with disabilities then it has a priority right of the championship and it is on the trail of the solution of the modern states and is not a reduction of competition but is therefore enabling one part of the population to, as they were the protection workshops of disabled before, have with their products the championship and it does so in the Croatian society the benefits because they are then reducing the costs of their care and what a single social state is developing in general. I would only then look back if you would allow me these articles that say that, in addition to the lowest price that has been disputed so far, it introduces the criteria of the most economically favourable offer because the lowest price is not always the best choice. So there were also many problems that because of that lowest price, we often bought worse goods, expensive goods, or so to speak unusable. So this selection of the most economically favourable offer is something that will make it easier to combine all these factors with the choice of bidders. I'm also glad to know now that the client has an offer that is also a subcontractor, because there are, of course, those companies that, as co-operatives, have often or haven't made all the commitments to the state so that the last one in the chain that will participate in all this can be controlled. And so I'm glad to repeat myself, with this 14-day deadline given to the State Commission when it decides on the appeal part of the matter to speed up, but I'm very scared, and I'm still skeptical when, and most of those unsettled on the state commission, people turn to the administrative court because it's said that this has to be done by haste procedure, but this hasty procedure can therefore take a long time, so I don't know whether by law, therefore, I'm not a lawyer, it's possible to prescribe some time in the administrative court, but only in these cases relating to public procurement, just so I don't have the means to repeat it, so it's a newspaper, that the funds can't be improvised or somewhere in the announcement, but secured by someone who wants it to be done. So that these means are then spent and within the deadlines because we know that timely consumption and only effective. There's something else I'd like to ask. So in all these articles where the terms of the offer are spoken, the language or languages are also mentioned. I'd insist on one language. So we're in the Croatian state and I don't see any reason why a single language that's an official language won't be an offer language. So if a stranger calls on the Croatian market with the offer of his products the minimum of what he must do is translate his offer into Croatian and I therefore ask the Proposer to delete those "languages". So that the offer that is made in any public procurement, according to any of these modalities, should be written in the Croatian language. I insist on it as a representative, and I don't think it offends anyone at all, and that's the minimum right that we as a state must protect ourselves. ... That's a good point. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't know if there's anything else in that speed I didn't want to be too fast or too slow. So I'm glad, and now I'm just asking. Is the article 76 finally settled, and I believe it is and that is what we have so far, and the most relevant thing to car purchases. So this technical specification that should be given in the competition I guess, it won't be possible anymore, will it, Mr. Zigman, to answer me, that we're going to be looking for a single model but we're going to be looking for a specific type, so all the bidders will be able to come forward because then they won't be defined at a millimeter when the technical characteristics of the car are measured to rule out everyone else. So I guess the intensity of this article in 76 is precisely to achieve greater competitiveness and not to be defined up in detail, but to determine, right, certain technical characteristics not only mean cars but also all other working machines and all that. So here I am, as an advocate, holding that this Law will far, far better regulate this area of spending taxpayers' money, and regardless of the number of articles, I hold that it will be brought very quickly in the second reading and that we will all start acting together and that we will, of course, avoid all misunderstandings, and also corruption that is essentially the biggest problem right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90761	Thank you. Final word, final review of Secretary of State Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90762	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here I would like to thank you for this debate, which has been very useful in any case, and surely the motionary, so the Government will respect the majority, if not all of your remarks. Unfortunately, certain questions cannot be answered about the language, languages, we need to see this because we will be in the European Union system very soon, but today there is already some documentation when we are competing for EU funding under the rules of the European Union coming in English. It's already done today. So, when we asked for accreditation, I assume you remember the debate about pre-accession funds, the report that was coming before the Parliament, in fact, the entire documentation of the implementation of the competition is being conducted in English. So, I think it is written in the languages, because at the time of entry into the European Union, rules will apply to the European Union budget, so the Croatian national legislation that needs to be fully in line with European legislation will apply, and that means the possibility not for what our national funds are spent, so not when someone is competing for funding, so for the tender for goods and services financed from the European Union budget, but for the part financed by the EU budget. In that part, we must therefore have the opportunity to open the tender in English and that the tender documentation is given in English since it is the European Union's funds. Here's so much about, but we'll actually see at the end when they test out, they examine all the details. So, in any case, the law will allow as we have said the basic principles of public procurement, transparency, non-discrimination, competition and the achievement of the best value... In fact, what the budget needs to go on, so to get the best, the best quality, and not only the cheapest, because in this sense we must ensure that what it serves Croatian citizens is in this context the best quality at the best possible price. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We said therefore, increasing competitiveness in the market for goods and services, improving the procurement management process, training education to improve the ability and competence of employees, achieving adequate legal protection and, of course, reducing the costs of the state and economic growth and development through the public procurement system... measures that reduce the risk of corruption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This proposal for a law enables the implementation of public procurement policy, the provision of professional assistance, supervision of the transparency of the work of institutions, promotion and the development of awareness of public procurement participants and the sensitisation of all employees in public services during education and further training to the danger of possible abuse. Finally transparent, fair and effective public procurement system restores confidence in state institutions and acquires the confidence of entrepreneurs to offer quality goods and works and services by... values can succeed on the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, I thank you again for the fruitful debate. I thank you for supporting the wider circle of MPs to this first reading of this Law, and I hope and believe that in the second reading all or most of your remarks will be respected and that these laws will come upon the second reading for full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90763	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposed public procurement law, first reading. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on public procurement is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Let's get on with it. Vote? The result? With 84 votes for, 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90766	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Council of Europe convention on the prevention of human trafficking is open to signing... the Council of Europe summit held in Warsaw on 16 May 2005. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the meeting in question, the Convention was signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Ivo Sanader. For the entry into force of this Convention, the same ratification of a total of 10 countries is required, of which 8 must be a member of the Council of Europe. To date, the Convention has been ratified by a total of 7 countries and has not yet entered into force. Since the Republic of Croatia has since 2002, since official statistics on human trafficking victims have been identified to date, a total of 62 victims of human trafficking, of which 8 of this year, 5 are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, one of Bosnia and Herzegovina and two Serbia, it is obvious that our country is becoming increasingly affected by this phenomenon, and therefore it is very important to ratify this Convention whose application will certainly further improve the existing system of human trafficking in Croatia. The global importance of this Convention is particularly reflected in the fact that the present Convention is the first international document in the prevention of trafficking in people who have put the focus of paying attention to the prevention of trafficking in human rights of victims. In addition to the above-mentioned thesis to this Convention, it puts human rights of victims at the centre of attention, tells the fact that the provisions of the Convention particularly protect the private life and identity of victims, and requires the States Parties to provide victims with all necessary psychosocial and health care, legal assistance and adequate living standards. In addition, the Convention provides for victims of human trafficking to be entitled to a recovery period of at least 30 days in which the competent national authorities cannot ban the victim. The convention provides for the possibility of obtaining temporary permission to stay victims of human trafficking and cases where they do not cooperate with judicial and police authorities. Such treatment prevents any condition of winning the status of victims of human trafficking, with their willingness to co-operate with competent state authorities, so the provision constitutes the basis for the protection of the human rights of each individual victim. It is important to stress that the provisions of the Convention require the States of the parties that repatriation or voluntary return of victims of trafficking to the country of origin can be achieved only in cases of their voluntary consent and must take into account the rights, security and dignity of each individual victim in the process of voluntary return. This Convention promotes, among other things, cooperation with organisations, which is very important for the emphasis. So with civil society organisations as inevitable factors in every modern system of human trafficking. The mechanisms for monitoring the implementation of the Convention in countries which have ratified it will be a special section called "Greta" consisting of at least 10 and a maximum of 15 members to be elected among the citizens of the States of the parties. Since the Republic of Croatia has a highly developed and effective system of combating human trafficking in accordance with all international standards, there was no need to leave reservations at any of the provisions of the Convention. The compliance of the Croatian system for the prevention of human trafficking with the provisions of the Convention is best reflected in the fact that all provisions of the Convention and even those setting the most standards for the protection of states such as that provision of a convention which provides for the possibility of punishing users of the services of victims of human trafficking already apply in the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The penal law of the Republic of Croatia provides for the sanctioning and use of human trafficking victims. In addition, it is important to note that in the Republic of Croatia, victims of trafficking are provided with psychosocial and health care and safe accommodation in one of the two shelters for victims of trafficking of people financed from the state budget, so it is clear that both in the area of protection and assistance to victims of people, human trafficking system of the Republic of Croatia is in line with the content of the convention in question. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the provisions of the Convention require the States Parties to cooperate with civil society organisations to combat human trafficking and since they have been fully compatible with the present Convention since the beginning of the civil society organisation. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-19-0.u90767	Thank you very much. The committees? I'm opening a debate. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. I'm interrupting the session. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 9:30 with the Final Proposal for the Drug Act. Afterwards, the proposal for a national programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education, and the proposal for a migration policy strategy, etc. Final proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the control of human trafficking. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 83 for and one abstention passed the proposed law.
