ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94398	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 27th session of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome you all very much. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, vice president, vice president and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session also begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure, begins on 15 September and ends on 15 December. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. - It's a performance of the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. – Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I invite you to pay tribute to the fallen Croatian defenders, to all the civilian victims of the war, to all of Croatia, to the victims of the "Kornat tragedy", the injured firefighters, our colleagues, until yesterday's representative at the Croatian Parliament Marijan Mlinarić and Croatian Parliament President Vlatko Pavletić. - A minute of silence. - May they have eternal glory and thank you. You received a record of the 26th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 26th session in the text as you have received it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have a proposition. After a catastrophic fire in the Kornati in which the lives of 12 firefighters have been tragically lost, I submit a proposal for all representatives of the Croatian Parliament to help families of the injured firefighters out of their personal wages to raise thousands of kunas and those funds to be paid into the account of the Kornat Foundation to in some way mitigate this terrible tragedy, that disaster. Do we agree with that proposal? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With a call for the session, you also received a proposal for the agenda. You are also given the final draft agenda at the session. I have placed 13 new points in the final draft agenda. And that: - Proposal for a Law on State Support for Education and Education, with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z. 782, - Final proposal of the Health Protection Quality Act, P.Z.E. 735, - Final proposal of the Act on the takeover of stock companies, P.Z.E. 728, - Final proposal of the Accounting Act, P.Z.E. No. 736. - Proposal for a Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project "New port of Zadar", - Proposal for a decision on the establishment of the memorial-biscene cardinal of Dr Franjo Kuharić and the first president of the Republic of Croatia, Francis Tuđman in the Croatian Parliament, - Report on the use of pre-accession programmes for the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2007, - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Areas of Special State Care, Proposer of Representative Miroslav Čaci, - Proposal for a conclusion by which the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit to the Croatian Assembly the Annual Report on the State of Agriculture, Green Report, for 2006, the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, - Proposal for the conclusion of which the State of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for the implementation of Croatia's decisions on the implementation of Croatia's implementation of Croatia's implementation of Croatia's implementation of the Treaty. Proposer is a representative of Slaven Letica. In the final draft agenda, I left out the point of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Measurement. That point was withdrawn by the Government from the procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under points 1 to 21 of point 23, under paragraphs 22, 27 to 32, points 34 and 35, paragraphs 40 and 44 and 45 of the laws proposed to adopt by an emergency procedure are set out. These are the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a framework loan agreement between the Council of Europe Development Bank and the Republic of Croatia for a project to finance health institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Sixth Framework Programme of the European Community for the Research of Technological Development and Demonstrative Activity, which contributes to the creation of a European Research Area and Innovation. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of additional costs of a river route reconstruction project. Proposal for a law confirming the 93rd torremolinos protocol at the torremolinos International Convention on the Safety of Fishing Ships. Proposal for a law on the introduction of the European Society of Socatas Europe and the European Economic Interest Association. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Equality of Certain Rules for International Air Transport. Proposal for a law on the Mobility Agency and the European Union programmes. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on dual citizenship. Proposal for a law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and the wear-out of nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plants. Proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on the control of emissions of volatile organic compounds or their cross-border currents under the 79 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on the control of nitrogen oxide emissions or their cross-border currents under the 79 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination. Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the rights of co-operation in relation to the financial assistance of the European Community to the Republic of Croatia in implementing aid under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance. Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a Community support programme in the field of nuclear security for Croatia for 2006. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Product Safety Act. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on child allowance. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Preschool Education and Education Act. Proposal for a law on navigation and on the ports of internal waters. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Commercial Companies. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Professional Diseases. Proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books. Proposal for a law amending the Fire Protection Act. Proposal for a law on academic and professional names and academic degrees. Proposal for a Law on Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. Proposal for a law on state support for education and education. Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on Special Tax on Alcohol. And the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project "New port of Zadar". I note that the laws referred to in the final draft agenda under points 5 to 7 under points 10 to 12, under points 15 to 21, under points 23 and 40 of the Code P.Z.E. the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161; We don't vote on the rules of procedure. These are the proposal for a law establishing the European Society of Socatas Europe and the European Economic Interest Association. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Equality of Certain Rules for International Air Transport. Proposal for a law on the Mobility Agency and the European Union programmes. Proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on the control of emissions of volatile organic compounds or their cross-border currents under the 79 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on the control of nitrogen oxide emissions or their cross-border currents under the 79 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Product Safety Act. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on child allowance. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education. Proposal for a law on navigation and on the ports of internal waters. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Commercial Companies. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Professional Diseases. Proposal for a law on state support for education and education. Do any of the representatives or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? Mr. Sime Luchin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94399	I'm sorry, the ones you've read.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94400	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94401	The ones you've read.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94402	Any of the MPs have any objections to the adoption of other proposed laws, so not these by E.U.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94403	I've got a coast guard, he's not in PZ. So on behalf of the SDP Club, I would suggest that the law, I think, is point 34 goes into regular procedure. We believe that this is significant because we are going to an experiment that is unclear, with this proposal returning the army to the Croatian borders, we are giving the military police and customs powers which I think should pay attention to these intentions and I think that a law that will cost hundreds of millions of kunas in the perspective of the taxpayers in order to consider it in the ordinary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94404	Thank you. Now we're going to the vote, please? There's more? I'm sorry, I didn't notice. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94405	On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to express our dissatisfaction with the proposal for a decision to approach the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is in 66th place in the Agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94406	Excuse me, do you have any objections to the application of the Emergency Procedure Act?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94407	Well, this isn't an emergency procedure, but I have an observation. We'll do that later.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94408	We'll do that later. So now we're going to vote on whether or not we're going to go to an emergency procedure when we pass certain laws. Please, let's get on with it. I'd like a score, please, as much as it's recorded. 79, we have a quorum. Let's take it in a row. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Framework Agreement between the Council of Europe Development Bank and the Republic of Croatia for the financing of health institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. With 78 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, this final passing law was included in the agenda. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the accession of the Republic of Croatia 6. The Framework Programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities that contribute to the creation of a European Research Area and Innovation? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. SA 78 for and one abstention goes to emergency procedure. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the confirmation of a guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for the financing of additional costs of a project to restore the Rijeka Transport Direction? Please engage. We can vote. Score. With 80 votes for a unanimous emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Code of Confirmation of the Torremolinos Protocol of 93 to the Torremolinos International Convention on the Safety of Fishing Ships of 97. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. With 80 votes for, one abstention goes into emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on Double Citizenship. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 78 votes for, one abstention goes to emergency procedure. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Fund for financing, decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel Nuclear Power Plant Krško. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Please vote. Score. With 76 votes for and 3 abstentions, an emergency procedure goes. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the rights of cooperation in relation to the financial assistance of the European Community to the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of assistance under the pre-accession assistance instruments. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. WITH 78 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, this bill is under emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 78 votes in favour and this law goes by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Please vote. The result? 65 for, five abstentions, nine against. He's going through an emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 78 for, 2 abstentions and this law goes according to emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 75 for, one abstention and one against. He's going through an emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Fire Protection Act? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 75 for two abstentions. He's going through an emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Please, let's vote. The result? 73 for four abstentions. He's going through an emergency procedure. We now have that bill of law, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia, where a representative of Shima Lucin objected with the proposal that the Law goes according to regular procedure. Does the government want to show itself about this proposal? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The government remains to proceed with an emergency procedure. Please vote. Please, let's get on with it. You're voting for an emergency procedure or an emergency procedure. There's no quorum. The president of the HDZ Club, representative of Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94409	Mr. President, it is evident that there is a quorum in the assembly, and there is also a great waste of time around these votes. When voting on the agenda should go faster, so I suggest that the quorum be counted, and then the other points of the agenda are adopted by hand. It'll go faster. That's more rational.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94410	We will vote according to the Rules of Procedure, on a proposal from one club we will vote with a raise of hands, we will vote in this way. Please, who's in. I ask MPs and MPs to be made aware of whether they are in favour of, that the Final Proposal of the Coast Guard Act of the Republic of Croatia. Coast Guard Act. Who's in favor of going through an emergency procedure? Please, let's raise our hands. Thank you. Against? The result? 71 for, 31 against. He's going through an emergency procedure. Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. Please, let's vote manually. Who's in? Thank you. Against? 30 against, 72 for. He's going through an emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on Special Tax on Alcohol? Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Unanimity with 102 votes in favor. He's going through an emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project "New port of Zadar". Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? With 104 for and this law goes according to emergency procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The written objection to the agenda I proposed with a call for the session was filed on 24 September by the representative Slaven Letica. The representative of Letica objected that the proposal for the agenda of this session did not include the point of the Proposal for a decision to set up the memorial of the model cardinal Dr Franjo Kuharić and the first Croatian President of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Franjo Tuđman, in the Croatian Parliament. I put that item on the agenda of this session. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 203(4). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Objection can now be made only to those points which did not contain the Proposal for a Agenda with a call for a session. And these are the points: - Final proposal of the Health Protection Quality Act, P.Z.E. 735, - Final proposal of the Act on the takeover of stock companies, P.Z.E. 728, - Final proposal of the Accounting Act, P.Z.E. No. 736, - Proposal for a decision on the establishment of the memorial-bisto of the model cardinal Franjo Kuharić and the first Croatian President of the Republic of Croatia Dr. Franjo Tuđman in the Croatian Parliament, - Report on the use of pre-accession programmes of assistance of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2007, - Proposal for a law on the completion of the Law on the Fields of Special State Care, Proposer of Representatives of the HSS, and, - Proposal for a conclusion which obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Annual Report on the State of Agriculture (Green Report) for 2006, Proposing the Club of Representatives of the HSS, and, - Proposal for a conclusion which obliges the State Commission to assess damages from elemental disasters to provide Croatia with a proposal for a proposal for a single assistance to municipalities and cities for partial access to the consequences of economic change of the period of the period of the Republic of Croatia, 2007. Any of the MPs object to including any of the proposed items in the agenda? There isn't. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda. I suggest that if you agree that I am not reading this entire agenda, I should just announce that the agenda has been established as suggested in the final draft agenda. Consent? So, the agenda is established. There are some suggestions from MP Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94411	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the club, I wanted to express our disagreement with the proposal for a decision to approach the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was found on the 66th item of the agenda. In just three weeks of Parliament meeting, with all these points that you have now added to the agenda and with some that you have announced at the Presidency, which will therefore come perhaps during this or next week, it is clear that the point under regular number 66 will not be discussed. This item was supported by its signatures by eight clubs in this House. And I can only express my dissatisfaction once more because this point will not be discussed. This means that there is not enough political will primarily by HDZ, which remains as the only club that has not therefore signed support for this proposal. It means that...../The speaker is off, so it's back on./... To be dealt with by all those recorded in the State Audit report as individuals who have done illegal things in conversion and privatisation, who have thus enriched and destroyed the jobs of our citizens. So these changes made it possible for us to finally sanction these people. So, the failure by the HDZ to sign this initiative but also to put 66th place on the agenda shows that there is therefore no political will for you to really punish those people who are most workers and citizens of this country, in the end and the country itself, quite black.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94412	In the final draft of the agenda, I have placed points on the Rules of Procedure those who go by emergency procedure, who have the advantage as well as the laws that have the advantage, which relate to the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union. There is an advantage, there are the first fifty points of the agenda, as well as proposals for decisions concerning the debate on relevant reports. The change of the Constitution, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, takes place in three stages. The first phase is to make a decision by the majority of the votes of all MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, to approach the amendment of the Constitution. The second phase is to adopt a draft amendment to the Constitution, which also requires 77 MPs. And the third phase is to make a decision to change the Constitution, which requires a two-thirds majority. This initiative of a group of representatives' clubs was launched shortly before the end of last session in July of the Croatian Parliament for discussion. It is now the end of this session and we will probably discuss this first phase but the question of how much is possible and how rational and reasonable it is to go into the amendments to the Constitution and with the procedure of changing the Constitution not by entering into the reasons for the change of the Constitution but by going into the change of the Constitution at the time of the elections and that these stages try to connect, and three stages of what is obviously the time of extreme critical that this could be discussed, adopted and brought. This, therefore, is not any political decision that she would look at, aimed at setting any party worthfully according to those reasons that stand out for a change in the Constitution. We are all for the persecution of both war profit and crime related to crime in conversion and privatisation. But another thing is a time when it tries to bring about a change of constitution at this point. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this will be discussed, it's on the agenda. We have a very exhausted agenda, we adopted the agenda and order of the agenda, which will be the order of the agenda decided by the President of the Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94413	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP Club, we would like to actually invite the Government to point 22 of today's agenda, which is the final proposal of the Law on the exercise of the right to legal aid, which is now in the second reading of P.Z. No. 738 withdraws from the procedure. In fact, that law was in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94414	My colleague, please. You can't suggest it, it's not allowed. We've adopted the agenda. If you had objected to the agenda, you wouldn't have put it on. Now we can't do the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94415	As the government remained deaf to all demands primarily and the professional public, here we wanted to propose on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94416	I'm sorry, but we can't discuss this right now. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94417	Dear Mr President, in front of the IDS Club, I would like to express my objection that our Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act or more popularly called 0.5 promila is put in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94418	You can't object to that. The agenda is set.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94419	You're breaking... Parliamentary... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] The harvest's over, and we need those supplies to get rid of. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94420	Berba's done, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94421	Three years, that's what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94422	Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to ask the government or an individual member of the government. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Society, and thereafter the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, and the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, on the exercise of the right to Legal Assistance, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94425	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Party of Rights Club, this morning we filed a request sent to you following a scandalous and embarrassing verdict by the Hague court in the trial of war criminals Sljivancanin, Mrksic and Radic, whom The Hague tribunal has shown its true face and humiliated the dead Croatian defenders, families of the dead, prisoners and missing defenders, Croatian military disabled from the Homeland War, Croatian defenders and the whole of Croatia, we are looking without delay for the opening of a debate in the Croatian Assembly on the purpose of further co-operation with such a Hague tribunal. The suspension of further application of the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with the Hague Tribunal and the initiation of proceedings before the Security Council on the purpose of the functioning of such a UN tribunal means a minimum of what the Croatian Parliament can and should do at this time. I ask that this point with these proposals be placed on the agenda immediately today because it is our obligation to Croatia, according to history towards the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94426	Thank you. Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94427	Thank you very much, Mr. President, on behalf of the HSLS Club, I would also like to say that after what happened yesterday and after the public reaction, we hold that the Croatian Parliament, MPs and the public have the right to know what the measures will be taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we insist on a stronger diplomatic activity and we ask that the prime minister, during the meeting, address the representatives, familiarize us with the views of the Government, with the activities that are being taken because we really hold that the court is losing credibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94428	All right, ladies and gentlemen, I'll brief the Prime Minister and when the time is right for him to address the Croatian Assembly and I'll decide on further proposals later. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, many MPs and MPs are in place after 15 hours at already agreed meetings with the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Commission and with the President of the European Parliament's delegation. Therefore, to allow them to participate in these delegations and meetings would not vote today, and we will transfer the vote by Wednesday at 12 o'clock. On Wednesday, 12 o'clock, we'll vote on all the points discussed. So now we interrupt the session and resume on Wednesday. It is Wednesday to begin the session at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the next agenda points. This will be, we will begin the debate with the Final Proposal of the Health Protection Act, the Final Proposal of the Act on the Download of Shareholders, the Final Proposal of the Accounting Act. And at 12 o'clock, we'll break up. ... That's what we'll do after the vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94431	Dear Mr. President, the Croatian party's law club filed a request on Friday to open a debate on the Croatian Assembly on the scandalous and embarrassing verdict of The Hague court to three of the victims from Ovcara. So we ask that the debate be opened and decisions taken regarding suspension from the further application of the Constitutional Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal or further co-operation with The Hague tribunal. We believe that it is necessary to know and for the sake of public interest, there is a huge public interest. The Croatian public is appalled and it is necessary to establish in the debate itself, to identify, locate, arrest and transfer all those responsible for the shameful and scandalous verdict of the Hague court and on the one hand, both by the UN tribunal and by the irresponsible behaviour of the competent authorities in Croatia. So we're asking for an answer to tell us when this debate will be held and that it will be during the HTV transmission because of the huge interest of Croatian citizens because they can't bear this kind of humiliation anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94432	Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94433	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to inform you as a public that HSS and HSLS clubs in the procedure have submitted a proposal for conclusions regarding these developments in the Den Hague. This conclusion calls on the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Sanader, to address us here in the Parliament within 24 hours and to submit a report on the International Criminal Court's verdict in the Den Hague to the war crimes indictees, as well as on the actions that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken or will take after a verdict and to protect the integrity of the Homeland War and all victims and to protect justice and justice in punishing the perpetrator of the crime. We also propose that all MPs adopt the resolution as a joint act on these developments during the plenary session. We suggest that through that conclusion we appoint a working group to draw up that resolution and which would make up representatives of all the MPs here in the Parliament. Well, since it's in the process, I'm asking you to be clear if you're going to put it on the agenda today or if you're going to call the Prime Minister, because according to my knowledge, we have the support of most clubs, so we'd like to collect signatures for an emergency procedure if you don't put it on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94434	Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94435	Absolutely I am also on the trail of these thoughts that this House should be addressed in any case by Prime Minister Ivo Sanader but that a parliamentary debate should be opened immediately after that address. We would, I don't know why he's throwing himself at me. We should sort of resolve one small dilemma, not to say one institutional dispute that arose between the president of the state and the Prime Minister who will speak about this matter before the council of the United Nations. I agree with all those who say the verdict is scandalous, that it is not only an insult to the Vukovar, the citizens of Croatia, common sense but also to all those free... Citizens in Serbia who stood up against Milosevic's regime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that the googogue that Vukovar passed probably did not pass any of the cities in the post-war Europe along Srebrenica. And just given that in mind and keeping in mind the qualifications of the indictment proposal on the one hand of this consequence, I think it would be a good idea to talk about it in front of the MPs, but also to give us a chance to say what our clubs think.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94436	Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94437	On behalf of the SDP club, I would like to say that we support the request of these three clubs seeking debates on the Hague verdict and propose a joint declaration. I think the UN court's verdict is an extremely high blow primarily to the victims of the Homeland War in Croatia. And I think that it deserves to be discussed here in the Croatian Parliament without politicizing, primarily with the intention of in some way and as Parliament raising our voice against such a verdict and to see in the end what we can do as a state to change that verdict in some way. I therefore think that this should be discussed in Parliament and that a declaration should be drawn up to give the Croatian Parliament its position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94438	Thank you. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94439	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, we also support the proposal to open a debate in the Croatian Parliament on the issue of Hague rulings and to express our disfavor and, in particular, the view that, at the beginning of his term, the Prime Minister told the Parliament that the government has 3 possible relations strategies and cooperation strategies with The Hague, so we should also hear what is the outcome and what strategy has been applied in this case. However, there is another topic that is parliamentary, which unfortunately we do not have on the agenda, which should be addressed on January 1st and the activation of the ZERP decision by the parliament. Two days ago in the European Parliament, he said that the implementation of the Croatian Parliament's decision to activate the ZERP from 1.1 next year would slow down Croatia's negotiations and accession to the European Union. Some politicians in Croatia have no idea, others have no comment, and we think that, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party, the government, especially the chief negotiator and foreign minister, should report on the strategy of further negotiations or the fate of the decision to activate the ZERP from 1.1 next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94440	Ladies and gentlemen. At 12 o'clock when the quorum is up, I'm going to suggest we discuss these suggestions. I will therefore propose to supplement the agenda with the proposal: 1. to open the debate on Hague rulings 2. on proposals to introduce a point proposed by the HSP Representatives' Club on the suspension of the constitutional law on co-operation with The Hague Court and to initiate proceedings before the Security Council for the purpose of further action of the Hague Tribunal 3rd and this proposal for a conclusion proposed by the Association of Representatives of the HSS which would be obliged by the Government to submit a report on the judgment of the International Criminal Court in Den Haag to these indictees and on the actions that the Government intends to take. So at 12 o'clock, I'm going to suggest that we vote on including these points in the agenda. We're continuing the session. Please determine the quorum! Let's determine the quorum! How long do you need to raise your hand? Honorable representative Maria Byte. Maria Byte! Are you asleep?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94442	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Based on Article 238 [[Intruder: It doesn't work.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94443	It works, it works, it works, it just needs to be heard [[Intruder: Listen first, then...]] [[/Intruder: It doesn't work and it doesn't...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94444	Mr. President! Based on Article 238a, paragraph 6 of the Croatian Democratic Community Club is seeking a vote on the laws ahead of us, because part of the MPs does not have a key.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94445	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 27th session to the next points. 1. Proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and HSLS which is bound by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit the Report on the judgment of the International Criminal Court in the Den Hague to indictees, war criminals in Vukovar Miroslav Radic, Veselin Sljivancanin and Mili Mrksic, and on the actions taken or taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the verdict has been made. 2. The debate on the purpose of further cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with The Hague tribunal, suspension and further application of the Constitutional Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and the launch of a procedure before the UN Security Council on the purpose of the Hague tribunal, is proposed by the HSP Representatives' Club, 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the accession of the Republic of Croatia 7. Framework programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities, emergency procedure, 4. Proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for PLINACRO, Plinovod II, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Explosive Substances Act, 6. Proposal for a law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber with a final draft law, emergency procedure, promoter of the Club of Representatives, representative Bozidar Pankretic, 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, Proposer Zdravko Sočković, 8. Proposal for a law on the processing and use of wood and wood products, first reading, 9. Proposal for a decision to appoint a vice governor of the Croatian National Bank, 10. Proposal for a candidate for election of a member of the State Attorney's Council, 11. Proposal for a decision not to call a recruit on the obligation to serve the military term. And 12. Proposal for a National Programme for Construction, Equipment and Modernisation of all railway and road crossings on the Croatian Railways network from 2008 to 2012, Proposer Slaven Letica. Article 205 of the Rules of Procedure decides first to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws in accordance with an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? Representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94446	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community opposes the urgent procedure of the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, with the final proposal for a law proposed by Mr Bozidar Pankretic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94447	Thank you. Next? There isn't. We are going to vote on certain proposals for certain laws to be passed by emergency procedure. Who is the seventh Framework Programme of the European Community for Research, Technological Development and Demonstrative Activity for the implementation of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia? Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that unanimously with 112 votes for this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is two for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for Plinarro gas pipelines? Thank you. Against? Unanimity with 112 votes in favour. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Explosive Substances Act? Thank you. Against? 97 for, 5 against. He's going through an emergency procedure. Who is objecting to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. 47 for, 65 against. He's going through a regular procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, which is proposed by MP Zdravo Sočković? Thank you. Against? Against 45, for 67. So he's going through an emergency procedure. Any of the representatives object to the inclusion in the agenda of any of the other proposed points? Objection to any of the other points proposed? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established. They would now continue to vote on these remaining points that have been discussed earlier. And at 3:00, a debate would be opened on a proposal where the Prime Minister would present his first opening statement on the International Criminal Court's verdict and on all the activities the government intends and intends to take on this verdict by the Hague. Now let's see what happens. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94448	Mr. President, I'd like to hear why you didn't put one item on the agenda that seemed to me on Friday, nine or ten of the representatives' clubs are in the process. So it's about the rules for monitoring the election. In fact, we have respected Article 204(3), we have collected one third of the signatures of parliamentary deputies, and you are required to put it on the agenda by your rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94449	I will decide that later after the meeting we have today at 13.30 a.m. president of the HDZ Club with the presidents of the clubs of all MPs, so we were at least some deal in the presidency. Keep going. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94450	Your Honor, Mr. President, this is about the same subject. I'll accept the invitation to attend the conversation of the other club presidents, but this is about setting the agenda. In accordance with Article 204(3) of the Rules of Procedure, where one third of the MPs submit a proposal during the meeting, the President shall be obliged to put that item on the agenda. If you don't put that on the agenda right now, we have nothing to talk about. So, I'm not going to go to a conversation about a point that's not on the agenda. In accordance with Article 204(3) of the basic Regulation, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, We can talk to the HDZ Club about the agenda, otherwise there's no point in talking. What are we gonna talk about?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94451	Is there anyone else? Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94452	Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I demand that measures be taken to ensure that Croatian television directly conveys the debate within 15 hours concerning co-operation with The Hague tribunal and all of these situations because the interest is enormous and I think that this is the point of the agenda where we should enable the transfer, so please contact those responsible for the Croatian Radio-Television to be transmitted directly to that part of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94453	Article 204(3) is the proposal to include this proposal in the agenda on rules on the handling of electronic media with national concessions. I'm putting it on the agenda. I took all the necessary steps for television in 15 hours to be HRT's cameras. Ladies and gentlemen, proceed at 15.00 hours. I propose a united debate on these first two points, about The Hague, a united debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94456	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, on the basis of Article 238, we ask that it be voted by hand because of economics.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94457	Okay. It'll be faster. In accordance with Article 204, paragraph 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 27th session with the following points: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the "Europe for Citizens", emergency procedure. Secondly, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the "Intelligent Energy – the European Programme for Competitiveness and Innovation" programme. Third, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Sugar Agreement. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the control of the state border. Proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, emergency procedure. And a bill on the National Foundation for Support of Student and Student Standard. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There isn't. Let's go vote. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia, between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the "Europe for Citizens". Who's in? Thank you. Against? Unanimity with 118 votes for an emergency procedure. Secondly, who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the "Intelligent Energy – the European Programme for Competitiveness and Innovation" programme. Who's in? Thank you. Against? With 119 included in the E.R., by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the urgent procedure for the adoption of the 1992 International Sugar Agreement? Thank you. Against? It was against. 116 for. Three against. Who is in favour of applying the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina in cooperation with the State Border. Who's in? Thank you. Against? 120 for you. Unanimity. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act? Thank you. Against? 119 for. One against. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the National Foundation for Support to Student and Student Standards? Thank you. Against? With 121 for the unanimous addition of the agenda established also by this Act by emergency procedure. The completion of the agenda is otherwise established. The session continues at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the proposal for a report on the operation of the penitentiary. The first in line is on behalf of the HSS club respected representative Ljubica Lalić, etc. Then the report on drugs, government regulations, etc. ... That's what we'd do on Wednesday. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Tomorrow we're going to new work victories. And on Monday, there's a meeting at 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94461	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to Article 238a of our Rules of Procedure, the Croatian Democratic Community Club is seeking a vote by raising its hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94462	Okay. Please. Who's in? Who's in favour of putting into the agenda a proposal for this decision? [[Intruder: No Ljuba Jurčić.]] Decisions on amendments and additions to the rules on the conduct of electronic media? Thank you. Against? With 86 for and 1 against the proposal for this decision on amendments and additions to the rules on the conduct of electronic media is included in the agenda. And secondly, the proposal for a decision to disband the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Kramaric's? Those who won't pass won't even be helped by a secret vote. Thank you. Against? A decision has been proposed unanimously with 88 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to ask the government or an individual member of the government. The first one will be asked by a respected representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94464	Dear President, although I should ask my question to the prime minister since the 2006 Constitutional Law Implementation Report will not come to parliament, since with some rights it has practically not even started like bilingualism and, as the electronic media, I still refer my question to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Since there is no minister, I assume Mr. Taker will answer. Although in this ministry I must say the most consistent and increased number of classes and departments, the question of counselors has been resolved, translated or translated all textbooks unfortunately the preschool segment remained intact. He's in the domain of funding local self-government. Countys were supposed to bring preschool programmes, most of them weren't. The ministry was supposed to adopt a pedagogical standard and it wasn't. It was supposed to be surveillance, and it wasn't. Because of this, too many children in the Czech kindergarten and under the company of rationalization or inability of the city of Daruvar to finance more than 18.9% of small children waiting in kindergartens. This year no child is enrolled in Czech kindergarten, i.e. a manger that loses a whole generation, which will later reflect both elementary and high school but could be enrolled in Croatian kindergarten. The fact that there are mixed marriages in Daruvar, which helped the Czech Republic to build a nursery or a manger, is that the Czech language of the middle is not respected in Daruvar as well as in terms of the country’s birth rate. I ask you, dear secretary, what will you do to honor the Preschool Law, but above all, the Constitutional Law on minority rights. When will you carry out the supervision of the counties or pre-school education programme of the county, whether or not the funds allocated to the state budget for minority kindergartens have been spent or have they reached those kindergartens at all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94465	State Secretary Free Taker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94466	Honorable Madam Representatives, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There is an assessment according to which children members of national minorities less participate in kindergartens and private and public than other children, children of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and in this sense we have a lot of work to do for all to increase that percentage. As for your particular question when we look at it, I'd say as soon as possible. This is new information for us. I will suggest that we carry out administrative surveillance upon an urgent procedure and see how the matter stands in the given environment and take appropriate measures. It is unacceptable if what you have said is that the funds are not used for the purpose for which they are designated and that they are really going according to the program that is intended for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94467	Representative Zdenka Chuhil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94468	Dear secretary, thank you very much for your reply. I think it's time for an emergency operation because in Daruvar the Czech kindergarten was denied for those funds. On the other hand, not to use the word genocide but to use it in Daruvar is a gallopingly agreed assimilation by limiting which children they are going to go to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94469	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94470	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the news of the sale of Zadar's port has sparked a consternation, not only in Zadar, Rijeka and Plots, but throughout Croatia. The even greater consternation has also caused the news that for ten million kuna, 51% of the shares have been sold to the very competitive one – at least the towers tell the Slovenian port and that it is the new owner of Zadar port and that it also inherited the concession to carry out port activities until 2014. But that's why people say there's some kind of dubious unchecked capital behind that kind of transaction. This absurdity is a team of greater and quite justified panic, because in recent years the Croatian government has invested billions of kuna tax taxpayers' taxpayers' money in road construction and the overall arrangement of Zadar port, and this seems to be what things now seem to be for the benefit of being the Croatian competitor of the Kopar port with which the Rijeka port is primarily running an open competition in the fight for every ton of cargo. The absurdity of the whole situation is further increased by the fact that these days a contract has been signed with the European Investment Bank, which lends about 220m euros to the construction of a passenger port and a future container terminal in Gazenica, and thus there is no doubt that Luka Zadar's shares will increase enormously and that these enormous investments will benefit someone not other than the third. So I ask you who bought the Zadar port and why it is the most carefully guarded secret in Croatia and more importantly whether or not to check the capital of such transactions, because according to positive legal regulations, it is the duty of individual bodies and offices, special services to check every major transaction. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94471	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94472	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Representative. Thank you for your question, but the question is addressed to the wrong address. The state does not sell the port and I from this pay phone as Prime Minister on behalf of the government and on behalf of the strongest Croatian political party, I say that Croatia will not sell ports, but will give them in concession. Who's selling the harbor? Here's a look in Zadar, and we'll check through the relevant institutions, because it's obviously private people, not the state. Therefore, do not ask me for what private persons are doing, and that the institutions of the state will check everything, including the lawyers involved, is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94473	Of course, of course, Mr. Prime Minister that I'm not satisfied with your question, or your answer, because it's simply not exactly what you're saying. The state is building all the infrastructure for that port, and the state has all the mechanisms, and not only the mechanisms, Mr. Prime Minister, your mandate is almost over and you don't know what the government or its institutions and individual agencies should do. According to explicit anti-corruption regulations, it is required to check, which is why there is a special service in the Ministry of Finance, and you boast exactly the specific measures, check every investment and origin of the money. That's why there are special services, but it seems that you, these services have more important things to do to mess with the e-mail of your political competitors instead of checking and giving... to ask yourself really... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94474	Please! Thank you very much. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94475	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer the question to Mr. Damir Polancec, vice-president of the Croatian government, and it is related to the privatisation of the Hotel "Alan" in Starigrad. In fact, information recently appeared in the media about the launch of investigative actions and the illegal privatisation of the Hotel "Alan" in Starigrad, and shortly thereafter a series of contradictory statements by individual actors. For example, the chairman of the HFP Management Board, Slavko Linic, claimed that the proposal for the sale of the Hotel "Alan" to the bank was given by then by the chairman of the Fund, Mr. Vojkovic, while this persistently denies it and claims that SDP's deputy head of the Fund, Mr. Starcevic. The public is interested not only in the truth, but also in the answer to the question that is now being raised to Mr Polancec, and I ask whether in this situation the obligation of Hypo Bank to capitalise “Alan” mainly on the fact that the same company has been resold only a few months or weeks after the purchase. Who are the real customers and what is the role of the company “Reka” in this particular case of privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94476	Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94477	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. MP. So based on the documents available to me, so the documentation that exists at the Privatisation Fund, I have to say the following. On 12.12.2001, the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund decided to accept the HYPO Bank's offer for the purchase of the Hotel “Alan” regardless of who spoke, whether it was present or not from the minutes, it was evident that both the fund president and the vice president of the Fund Starcevic were present at the meeting of the Management Board of the Fund, as is apparent that all members of the Fund's Management Board voted at that time to accept the HYPO Bank's offer. HYPO bank concluded with the Privatisation Fund several months after the exact 5.3.2002 contract, which became the owner of the Hotel Alan. One of the obligations was to carry out the recapitalisation of the Hotel “Alan” as you yourself stated at 2.3m euros and to deliver the report on the recapitalisation carried out to the Privatisation Fund, and of course this report must be confirmed by the authorised auditor. Although the auditors have confirmed in writing that investments have been made, I must say that the recapitalisation has never actually occurred and there has never been an increase in the fundamental capital of society. As regards the contract, it is clear in the contract that HYPO bank as a customer cannot and must not dispose of the shares or sell the company for at least one year from the signing of the contract – so up to 5.3. In 2003, without the written consent of the Privatisation Fund. Hypo Bank only reported in 2005 that it sold the company Hotel “Alan” but from the findings of the Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration from Split, the Department of Economic Crime is quite visible that the transaction was actually carried out only a few months or as you yourself stated weeks after Hypo Bank became the owner of the company. Hypo bank when she was making an offer on her behalf, she didn't make her buy that company for anyone else anywhere. However, Hypo Bank sold the company "Alan Tours" to Zadar, I am not familiar with what conditions and at what cost, and therefore this is the essence based on the documentation available at the Privatisation Fund. As for the Reika company, the Swiss company Reika, which you mentioned to me, is completely unclear their role in this story. So to recapitalise, everyone, both the President of the Fund and the Vice-President of the Fund, on the basis of the minutes, were present at that session, all the members of the Fund's Management Board voted to accept Hypo Bank's offer. Hypo bank shouldn't have sold that company in a year. She did it. She did so in a way that she was sold by Alan Tours, of course by any consent of the Privatisation Fund. And the recapitalisation was absolutely not done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94478	Representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94479	I am pleased with this exhaustive response and I hope that, in this sense too, by bringing these facts out, we will also clarify this privatisation that took place in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94480	Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94481	Your Honor, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister of Culture, Mr. Bozi Bishop. It is known to all that there are many valuable monuments protected in different categories in Zagorje. It is known to all and also to be invested in these monuments lately and to be restored. The pearl of cultural heritage monuments in Zagorje is the castle of the Great Camp. His door's been closed for a long time. So I'm interested in when the time comes for the door to come out, so people can go inside. And secondly, when the time comes for some of our cultural heritage monuments to come on the UNESCO list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94482	Minister of Culture Bozo Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94483	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. It is true that closed doors always cause suspicion that something is hiding or something is not for the public. There's actually a case here for security reasons. That castle is being restored and construction works are inside. It's now the most valuable part of it, the 16th-century petrilateral tower. The entrance is renewed and will be wide open to the public in mid-tenth month. At the same time, the Ratkay family dedicated museum is set up. It's one of our most valuable castles. And when it comes to UNESCO's list he's on the tentative list, that means along with those 15 most significant monuments we've reported. And in fact, with this restoration, we're increasing his chances of being listed on the World Heritage Cultural List. And I hope, Mr. Representative, that at the opening ceremony, you will be present, as probably all the people of that region. Because finally, after almost 100 years, she didn't care about it. Last time he was somewhere 70 years ago, they were still the last ones to be a nun. Afterwards, the castle collapsed, and we finally had a very serious approach to its restoration. And hopefully now there's about 15, 20 days from now, that's going to be the whole part completely restored, the second part of it. It's also the opening museum. So I invite you to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94484	Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94485	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'm happy with that answer, and I'll still like it when it's on the UNESCO list, and even when we walk the door to see what looks like from the inside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94486	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare of Ozball. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94487	Thank you very much. I refer the question to Mr. Prime Minister. I don't know if you've seen this map on which they've been indicated, it's an interactive map, you can see it on the Internet, where all corruption affairs have been indicated in the past four years, mostly in this government. This is where you find yourself, for example. from the Brodoplita affair where one of the investigations was launched, but it was never completed, where six million dollars were blacked out. So there is the road Gaženica – Zadar, where the cost of road construction has increased enormously. So there's the KIM affair, then the Ladin Brothers affair and Minister Vukelic and the Dalmatinka new one. There's a lot of affairs in there for you, I said, there's over 100 of them. There's also an affair called Maestro, which is unfortunately not over yet. In view of this perception of the state of corruption, especially which Amnesty International will present today, in particular, on what the European Commission stands for, and I would like to ask you, by the end of the term of office, whether you intend to solve one of these affairs as well. Especially since you said you'd come out very quickly with the results of the Brodosplite investigation all the way up to here to "Maestra" for which you were so appalled that you even decided to lift the Privatisation Fund, which you didn't do in the end. I forgot to say "Suny Hvar." Now, he reminded me of this vice-president of the government where you practically signed a public private partnership agreement, and actually sold "Sun-Hvar". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94488	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94489	Madam Representative, first I will read to you as an answer, because you have quoted the European Commission, so I will read to you exactly what the European Commission has written, the European Commission's expert group. A concrete assessment, June 2007, so two, three months ago, found that Croatian authorities were engaged in fighting corruption without delay, quote: "... have done a large and fast part of the progress during the last months by implementing new structures and systems as well as by adopting numerous legal instruments that effectively resolve corruption.", finished quote. Now, here's the deal. Am I satisfied that all of this isn't settled, that you've listed? Of course not, neither am I. But as president of the executive government, I can't even participate in the investigation, order anyone, or bring results to you. You said you could bring the results of the investigation by the end of the term of office. If the relevant bodies are finished, I can. I mean, I can hear what the investigation is about. But you, as well as an esteemed and former government colleague, know very well that we cannot interfere, executive power, in the process. And when you mentioned "Maestro." It's not an affair, it's a great success. So the affair is what they were doing. But it's a great success. And I can't, as in the case of Brodosplit, either in the case of anything but you waiting and asking the relevant bodies to end it, to complete the process and to report both the Parliament and the public on what they did. But I'll do it again for last, so it doesn't, because when something is said first and then something else, then it falls into oblivion first. So I'm gonna end up with that first one again. A quote from the European Commission. A concrete assessment of June 2007 revealed that Croatian authorities engaged in the fight against corruption without delay have made a major and rapid part of the progress during the past months by implementing new structures from the system as well as by adopting a number of legal instruments that effectively resolve corruption. Despite this opinion, we still cannot be satisfied and I seek and encourage all bodies involved in the fight against corruption to do so even more effectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94490	Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94491	I must say, I have listened carefully to your answer, but I cannot possibly be satisfied with that answer. No government has ever had such good relations with the state's attorneys, taken pictures at every meeting, and never had any government having as many corruption affairs as there are, there's over 100 of them here. So to quote a small quote from the European Commission, not to quote the conclusion that it is practically recommended not to open negotiations for the area of justice, shows that this government has not done enough to fight corruption at all. Here's when you look at your watch, you'll see that you've got two months left, and I'm clearly doubting until the heaven mandates, of course, and I highly doubt that you'll be able to do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94492	Mr. Representative Miroslav Chachi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94493	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking the prime minister a question. The club of the representatives of the HSS in the parliamentary procedure has two proposals to amend and supplement the Road Safety Act, with the Final Proposal. One of them also refers to those famous 0.0 prominences, or our proposal to abolish them. Furthermore, on February 1st, because the laws did not, these proposals did not pass, i.e. included in the procedure regularly, we submitted a proposal for a conclusion asking the Government to report in detail, to inform us on the state of road safety in the Republic of Croatia with that special emphasis on the implementation of the national programme related to 2005 and 2006. Since the government has not submitted that report to this day, and the number of accidents is higher certainly compared to the previous year, the number of deaths, I must say. Mr. Prime Minister, don't you feel a little guilty that this report didn't take place in the parliamentary procedure until today. So I'm asking why it hasn't been included to this day in the regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94494	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94495	Mr. Representative, you're right and I accept this part of the criticism relating to the final-stage report and it should have been done by this session of the Assembly to get it on the bench, but the minister informed me that at the final stage, and I am asking that the report from the resolution ministry be delivered to the council's benches at the end of this session and not at the end, but if possible as soon as possible, so next week. As for the amendments to the law, I will and may be unpopular in this time of pre-election, but I will repeat my position and position of the Croatian Democratic Community. If we're that law, and I'm sure we did, we saved a single human life and a young life, then that law paid off, and we brought it here. We did not pass this law because of not drinking, that our wine industry, hospitality, tourism, etc. There's some damage to it. No, I don't. We're about for everyone to drink as much as they think they're doing well and how much they're doing and how good they are for their health, but then they don't drive if they've had too much to drink. That was the meaning of the law. I'm not for this law just because of election times we're discussing and changing, that's our point of view. We can discuss it, and we can discuss this report when the Minister and Resort Ministry directs it to the Parliament, to see how much we are by statistics, of course, we never know what would have happened if it hadn't been for that law, how many people would have died, etc. But statistics can be very clear and it will be seen that compared to those previous years that much less lives were lost than it was before. So we're expecting the report soon, and I'm expecting it, and we're going to send it to the Parliament, and this is what I think we should talk about in peace, not in election time. And I repeat, we have a whole series, I'm not going here too emotionalally, but a whole series of memos, calls, and e-mails from parents who have lost children and are asking and asking not to change that law because of others. Well, we can make a deal now, but I'm open to everything. But if we saved, I repeat one life, then the law paid off.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94496	Representative Miroslav Cacci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94497	Mr. Prime Minister, I can only be partially satisfied with this part when you said it would be and try to fit in anyway. He's true in point 84, but since we've never gotten to those points, of course a man can believe he won't do it this time either. We have asked for a full report only because in Croatia it is somehow generally accepted that drivers are mainly blamed for accidents. 95% mostly of accidents, considered to be drivers, and at the same time analyses show that this is not so, that far more roads, than their design, implementation, maintenance, etc. You said about the brides, I have to cut short. You said about young people, we absolutely did for the prevention of young people, but the law had to be applied entirely, which means that educational part of the programme was implemented, not to delay it from 1.1.2009. And in the end, normally what I have to say, most of these 0.0 to 5% permeate, suffers tourism, suffers wine producers. We believe that there is no reason to maintain this more especially because most of Europe does not have such...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94498	Thank you. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94499	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivy Sanader. Mr. Prime Minister, is it true that in the State Department for Protection and Rescue, an investigation is under way by the Criminal Police over the abuse of the position of director and his deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94500	The Prime Minister, Dr. Here you go, Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94501	I don't know what's going on with the state administration investigation, ma'am, but I'll let you know after I get the information.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94502	Representative Gordana Sobol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94503	Well, Mr. Prime Minister, I don't think it's exactly your honor, given that it's a state protection and rescue service. The head of this state administration is Mr. Djuro Poldruč. It's a management where the criminal police have been in for over a year and three months. According to the police director's report, the institution in which there is an organisational chaos, thanks to the principal's incompetence and all spiced up by financial malfeasance and abuse of official position. However, this same director runs the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, which is in fact one of the most responsible in the fire protection system. I think it's like the Prime Minister to you because you're directly superior to him, familiar. The same Djuro Poldruč peak of hypocrisy and cynicism yesterday declares that the past fire season has been successful and good, and yet to be chosen by the board of the Kornat Foundation. Mr. Prime Minister, I request a detailed report, a written answer to my question regarding the criminal treatment and, of course, your urgent indication of the responsibility of the Director of the State Protection and Rescue Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94504	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94505	Thank you, Mr. President, my question is to Prime Minister Eve Sanader. In fact, first of all, one citizen's finding is not equal in Croatia before the law. Namely, what happens is, if they build and pull a hat, they go into the bank and try to rob a bank, they fail, they catch him, they charge him with a crime of serious robbery in an attempt. If a citizen tries to scan 100 euros and put them away somewhere he doesn't succeed, gets caught, charges him with a crime of counterfeiting in an attempt. However, if the citizen is a minister, and if four ministers make a decision in the process of selling, giving one company, it is the KIM company in Karlovac, the privatisation paradigm in HDZ-style, so if ministers make a decision that is definitely illegal and suits and worst bidders, so they break the Penal Code, nothing happens to them. I, as a citizen, gave the State's Attorney's Office a plea against those four ministers for a criminal offence in an attempt. They got caught, the public caught them, the press caught them, we all caught them, they retreated. On your initiative, you found that this kind of privatisation is impossible, but they did commit a crime in an attempt. Will you do something about bringing all citizens into an equal, equal position before the law so they can respond not only when they commit a crime, but also when they try to do it and catch up.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94506	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94507	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, you did a little thing like this, I'd say a rhetorical parable that doesn't stand. It may work in rhetoric but in reality, in politics, life doesn't work. In fact, she's not true, she's simply not responding to the actual state, and what's the actual state? And the fact is, this is the first government to introduce the board meetings of the Privatisation Fund, transparency, journalists and the public. At the time of your government, Mr Vuljanic, your coalition, when Linic was the chairman of the Privatisation Fund, no one from the public should have even stopped near your sessions. And I am now asking the Croatian public at this last session of the Croatian Parliament, and it will also be watched and will be decided in the next elections on November 25th. Who is more transparent in privatising HDZ or SDP HNS coalition. You didn't have, you didn't let the press settle near the Privatisation Fund, you did the privatisation you agreed on, you gave hotels for 600 thousand marks of the time, in the best position in Dubrovnik. You heard the question of Tomljanovic and Polancec who answered him. So I'm asking you where you get the right to lead the government transparently, and even if it's wrong as in the KIM case and withdraws the decision, it's human error but it's not human to insist on it, I don't remember any of the decisions you've made. When it came to Lenac, you were wrong but you kept going, you knew it was a bad project, and Slavko Linic knew it was a bad project, but he went on and re-pulled the money to Lenac. Croatian taxpayers' money. Thus, at this session led by Polancec and the others were journalists and something else. They were union representatives. We are the first government to introduce a social partner to the Fund's administrative council. You didn't do it, I can ask you why. Did you want to hide your decisions from the unions representing workers and employees? Here's the truth about our privatisation and yours. And for the end of the transparent privatisation is currently being carried out both in T-HT and in INI and we announce here from this session of the Parliament more such privatisations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94508	Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94509	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for explaining to me why all my colleagues Linic and the last Privatisation Fund did not do well. And thank you for that explanation, that explanation is necessary to the public, you could give it, you gave it when you sat down as an opposition in this House. But my question wasn't about my colleague Linic, if I wanted to find out, I would have asked, my question was about the move of this Privatisation Fund and its board of directors. I didn't get the answer. The Croatian public received the answer that you do not want to talk about it, that it is human error. Sin is human, but it's not fair to make mistakes and then not endure the conjecture of that mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94510	Representative Marko Shirac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94511	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will ask the question of the Minister of Transport and Development and Maritime Affairs, Mr. Calmeta. During 2007, the government successfully continued to realize construction on all 6 highway routes in the Republic of Croatia. The construction of the highway is under way on the 5th corridor of the Sredci-Đakovo-Osjek section. I ask the Minister to answer my question about the state of work on that stock and when will it be completed and put on the market the first stage of Wednesday-Djakovo and when will it be completed and what are the deadlines for completion of the entire section from Wednesdays to Osijek? For the Zagreb-Vika Gorica-Sisak highway where the work is also under way, it is known that, given the difficulties in the adoption of the Zagreb County spatial plan, the works have been slowed down, I ask you to state in which they are and what is the dynamics of the construction of the Velika Gorica bypass?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94512	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94513	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So here we are in these underage three and a half years as the public knows we built and let a little more than 400 into traffic, about 412 kilometers of highways that only speaks of one truly, about one great intensity of construction, once respecting the deadlines for construction... The stock. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards this part of the PC corridor, it is part of the PC corridor that goes from the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina to the border with Hungary, i.e. from Wednesdays to the White Manastir. This first section of Wednesday-Djakovo is expected to end and complete all works at the end of the 10th month, after which we will get a useful license so that we expect to release this very important stock from Wednesday to Đakov at the beginning of the 11th month. At the same time from Đakova to Osijek there is an ongoing tender for highway construction, i.e. highway routes, and already before are competitions and selected performers and are working on several facilities on the course with ecological tests, installation shifts and all that precedes the business itself. What is important is that the stock from Wednesdays to Osijek will be completed as planned and as agreed in the four-year plan the government adopted, which is the end of 2008. As regards these also very important stocks and highways from Zagreb to Sisak, the Zagreb-Vika Gorica stock, there are, as you yourself have said, certain problems, not because of us, but because Zagreb County did not, as agreed in due time, bring a spatial plan that slowed some works on this part from Jakuševac to Velika Gorica knot. The stock is currently in the competition, the Velika Gorica knot was built, it is currently equipped, but regardless of the time limit that was set to build the highway from Zagreb, i.e. the Jakushevec node and until Lekenik will be respected, and it is as well known to the public at the end of 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94514	Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94515	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am very pleased with Mr. Minister's response to the realization of these two important highways. So it is not only important to respect the deadlines set, how important it is to ensure that they are truly in the planned time and device for economic development, these two very important parts of the Republic of Croatia, so I hope that our minister and our government will continue to support the construction of highways in the Republic of Croatia in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94516	Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94517	Mr. President of the Parliament, I will ask Mr. Cobankovic, Minister of Agriculture. Mr. Minister, it's about the damages that people have in the areas of return on crops, crops, herds and herds, which are made by wild animals. It's about incomes that people only live on and barely survive on. On the other hand, the concessionaires of the hunting grounds act like it's their nephew because their hunters spill and spill poison without warning. Hunters and hunting associations work in their geese, yet wild animals are protected in a special way. It's the only thing that doesn't have the proper concern for people and their property, and it doesn't have the proper protection that people deserve. In addition, they are denied membership in hunting associations in many areas and large numbers and are denied the right to receive hunting weapons and cannot, as it is said, organise themselves for the purpose of protecting them in any other way. There is no attention and measure of your ministry to do something about it and to protect people and their property because it is our common interest. My question is, does the ministry actually have any idea what's going on in the space first and whether there are answers and measures to prevent these damages and to protect people?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94518	Minister Pero Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94519	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Your question, Your Honor, is, and unfortunately, we have a rather complex situation on the ground, especially in the areas of return. The fact is that there is damage from game on other parts of the Republic of Croatia, but they are fortunately less than in return areas, mainly in areas where relatively small population is, where it is conditionally said to be poor farmland, a lot of land that has not been processed and unfortunately, in such environments we have an increased population of certain species of game. For these reasons, by strengthening populations, the fact is that the population of feral pigs is in significant growth not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in other countries and in our environment and neighbourhood. And mostly where it is, as I have already said, a small concentration of population and poor processing are ideal conditions for increasing the population of feral pigs. Only an increase in the population increases the damage. Of course, the Hunting Law prescribes the rights and obligations of the poachers on the one hand. On the other hand, the obligation to prevent damage. It is also when damage comes to the obligation of hunting associations or concessionaries or poachers to sanction and subsistence damage. So here, I, we know about the problem. We're asking hunting associations and concessionaries to respect the law. The law also regulates the way in which compensation is carried out, the manner of jurisdiction of courts and the like. But as a rule, court proceedings are long and they last a long time. As a rule, it is aimed at practically solving the damage by assessing the damage and the agreed relationship. Most poachers or hunting associations also go into the hunting insurance process, insurance against the damages caused by savages. And that simplifies the damages. But what I would also like to stress is that the Department of the Hunting of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy is constantly taking appropriate measures to bring a certain game population to normal. This is among other things a reduction of the poaching, an increased license for the shooting of certain savages and the like. There are certain activities going on. As for these incorrect conditional relations of concessionaires, I would ask you to deliver it to our ministry. We've got hunting inspectors and they'll be heading towards investigating such cases. And all those who do the opposite of the law will be sanctioned. And we've had a lot of cases, I can say somewhere over fifteen hunting grounds where hunters have lost their right to run hunting grounds. As for the other problem, the inability to join hunting associations. I know that we within the ministry have been trying to find certain forms to allow certain people who want to be members of hunting associations to come into the formation of new hunting associations, to solve both the hunting ground and the like, or to integrate part of the return population in these areas into existing hunting associations. The fact that it is sensitive areas, that it is areas where certain problems and the consequences of war exist, and so on, that the process is slow. But here, we've been trying to make our contribution to enable everyone to hunt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94520	Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94521	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister! You couldn't help in two things. Help establish the state of order because it does not exist now. Especially not to a satisfactory extent. Second. Help people get into hunting associations and come up with hunting weapons despite these prejudices that you mention. It will help both these people and the overall atmosphere. But since that condition is not good now, as long as it's not good we have no right to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94522	Representative Mario Zubović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94523	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Ivica Kirina, Minister of the Interior. For a long time, we have witnessed large ranks and crowds in police administrations to obtain documents of various kinds, from driver's licensees to car registration. Especially the big crowds were this summer when it went to summer hours. And I ask you, what have you done so far so that such crowds are not in police administrations not only in Zagreb but also in other major cities in Croatia? If you did something, what did you do? And what you're going to do is you're going to make such a crowd down because people are asking you to get documents going much faster because they're losing a few hours to register a car or get personal documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94524	Minister Ivica Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94525	The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Parliamentary Representatives? With the aim of faster and better quality communication with citizens and decommissioning crowds in the production of personal documents since 2 August 2007, we are conducting a project called the Information Department, the Department of Engineering of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia. Just a few informations to see what kind of job it is. In 2008, we expect about 830 thousand personal documents to expire. First of all, we're thinking about IDs and passports. And so, let's say, from the beginning of the project, we've sent over 30,000 SMS messages to the Ministry of the Interior. From 20.7. to 1.9. more than 35,000 requests were received, which on average means that the daily MUP sends over a thousand messages. The MUP will also open the counter offices. The example was these busy summers that took place in Petrinjska and Henizlova, in all places means, but in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, all where police administrations are ten to 20 kilometers away, to avoid unnecessary crowds and unnecessary travel costs. For example, I quote the opening of counter offices at the Marof Police Station, at the Varazdin spas and the Chazma Police Station. And during the summer months, we opened ten new tents at the Zagreb Police Administration where 28 new employees were employed. We also agree with the institutions to exchange on-line data so that citizens don't have to come to two places for data in person. And one of the examples that I'm going to mention, it's a recent Internet communication, that is, it's a line of communication with Centro for vehicles where you've had to go to the vehicle registration twice so far, means to go to the police department where your data was being recorded at the Vehicle Center. Now it's only enough in one place. With this we have greatly reduced both costs and burden, above all, and crowds on the counters. The plan is also to improve and further implement internet communication with citizens, and now within several months of following, and at this moment, to coordinate business processes from the MUP section with the HItro-HR programme and "one stop shop" where all for the provision of concrete services will be in one place. We have also published on the website of the MUP all those forms that citizens can print on the printer, fill out and submit to the nearest police administration or become what also speeds up business processes and for those public services where legal and sublegal regulation is necessary to publish the forms and to amend them. It is also under way to define a technical solution for the application of a criminal offence where there will be the possibility to apply via the Internet through the following forms of the following offences: instructions for filing a criminal application, instructions for filing a criminal application against a known perpetrator, instructions for filing a criminal application against an unknown perpetrator, and to file an anonymous or unknown application, by an unknown perpetrator, in fact filing an anonymous application. It is also now under way to intensively equip the office premises of the Ministry of Interior with information equipment, staffing, training of officials, air conditioning and registration of individual spaces because we want citizens who come there to feel comfortable in that space, but unfortunately I have to apologize to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for these great crowds because unfortunately we are not and we cannot be satisfied with the current situation. But I must point out that one of the main causes was the lack of financial resources. In fact, between 2004 and 2007, we had to share 812 million kuna for not implementing a collective contract of the former coalition government. We inherited 280 million kunas of unpaid debts for electricity, fuel, debt to suppliers and others. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has paid all taxes and contributions to employees. Dear parliamentary representatives and citizens, regardless of the difficult financial heritage, we have done a great deal of work and a lot of projects and can say that we will continue to implement exactly the use of the Internet and information in order to reduce the crowds on the counters and thus help citizens lose as little time as possible to red tape or to wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94526	Thank you. Representative Mario Zubović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94527	I thank the Minister for this exhaustive response and hope that the future will be enough for an hour to register the car. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94528	Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94529	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister of Science, but since he's not here, then I will refer him to the Secretary of State, Mr. Uzelac. As is known, the Republic of Croatia began two years ago with the implementation of the Bologna Process in our universities and in the beginning there was doubts whether the universities were ready for such a thing. First of all, there was a lack of space, a lack of professors, but that they were waiting for all these optimal conditions to be met then we're afraid it would take a very long time. What the Bologna process has certainly firmly defined are student obligations, and this also creates assumptions that the average study is going on as short as possible. As we ourselves as a society want to raise the percentage of highly educated citizens in the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible, we believe that this process should have started, but we see that after these two years, certain dissatisfactions arise and many issues arise. Whether to enroll years or score points, why no more test deadlines, why no better developed student tracking, communication problems between professors and students, and I say the whole series that have resulted in this visible dissatisfaction these days. I'm saying, obviously, there are these doubts and it would be good if the state secrets told us that universities or colleges will properly meet their students and more precisely define their obligations, whether to open up the possibility of a greater number of test deadlines, including dean. Is it possible that some universities prescribe that it is only possible to take one exam until I know the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb enables more exams. And I'm saying, obviously, we now have one situation that a certain number of students cannot enter next year and that the effectiveness of the study is at stake and therefore the very meaning of the Bologna process itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94530	State Secretary Free Taker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94531	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Kramaric, ladies and gentlemen of the council. The short answer to your questions is positive if all of this will be secured. The answer is unambiguous. They will because we have no other choice. We have no alternatives. Namely, both a number of test deadlines and better to get to know students and more opportunities for the exam before the final exam, so the succesive and long-term monitoring of student performance and the help of student in mastering the materials is all something that is just the most important of Bologna's reform. So when the question arises whether there will be that or the Bologna reforms then it is illogical. The Bologna Reform is exactly what you're asking, it's contained in the Bologna Reform itself. With that, however, a very specific answer to the evaluations you gave. We've obviously come into a situation where we've faced our own image of higher education. It was that picture with which we were all dissatisfied and too long and the average long study he was supposed to last four and a half years, it lasted on average over seven years, he had before and still had an insufficient number of teachers, assistants, insufficient space, insufficient modern equipment, outdated programs. And worst of all, we had a system that was autistic, which was closed, not compatible with a higher education system in the European Union. That's why we went all the way to Bologna reform, and then that's exactly what's changing it. Let me tell you here that the dissatisfaction of the students you're talking about and who we all see in the joint evaluation of the university's rector, the dean of the colleges in question is still less than the public might be. It is, however, a smaller group of students who year by year are looking for an exam deadline and when there are but also when there are no objective reasons, from there to there and the answer to the question. Where requirements are justified, of course, that they should be met but there is always a category of students who seek and what does not really belong to them. This reform requires students both from teachers and from all of us much more work, much more regular work, means regular attendance of lectures and exams. In the end, let me express my satisfaction that it is a matter of going to Bologna reform or not in this home existed as we all know full consent that, on this trail, the government has undertaken both material and human investment in various ways. I will just say that this moment in Croatia is being built several university campuses, that a number of universities have been opened that have kept young people in smaller towns, county centres, that we have adopted here and the Law on Student Choir which puts students at the heart of these processes who are more than these issues to decide, and not just protest. In short, we have opened up the conditions for us to achieve much more in the next period than we have so far. And the last sentence, already the first steps in applying Bologna, are just denying the demands of the students we're talking about. In fact, the passing of students over the last two years is more important in the Bollogian model than before, and that alone is enough proof that we do not give it up. And everywhere where requirements are justified in the sense that the subjective weaknesses of teachers, and there are also high schools, should be granted to students without delay. Thank you very much in the hope that in that sense the process will move on. We think we can expect good results.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94532	Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94533	I agree with you. I particularly agree that the process must indeed go on regardless of these certain conflicts that you have said yourself with the picture of our situation at higher education institutions. And in the end, you know that you're knocking on the door, on the same, we're of the same kind, and I'm finally a participant of that process, and I'm facing all of these problems of implementation of the Bologne Process from day to day. It's not about this, but I'm saying it's my pleasure or not in the end in some way it's going to be a pleasure for those students who have justifiable reasons and I'm just talking on their behalf. I don't speak for those who are actually trying to manipulate this vague situation. But what I would also ask you as some appeal to stay where it sees that the ministry has its own meaning, which is that in one very subtle, delicate way it controls, encodes this process exactly and not touching the autonomy of universities, colleges so that indeed this pleasure and us who are on one side and those from the other side were actually as big as possible, and certainly investing in science I think it's always a hundred times coming back and that it's also the one of our resources that maybe we haven't fully recognized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94534	Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94535	I question the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia, although I do not know whether he or the president of the HDZ will answer me, because lately there has been no difference between these two functions. I don't care who you two answer this question. I quote: “Because it is a business of great political importance abroad for previous registration and elections are responsible ambassadors and general consuls.” These are not fragments. This is a quote, part of the contents of a consultation note held at the General Consulate in Munich on September 15th of this year. Now, I want to know what that really means. What kind of political importance is that? For whom is this of political importance? Which means we need to contact Catholic missions, media, cultural and sports associations. Which means that notice of previous registration should be shared after Sunday Masses and whether consuls and ambassadors must attend Sunday Masses. And I'm particularly interested in whether a similar campaign will be in Croatia? So will voters be motivated for previous registration in Croatia? Who's gonna be responsible? Who will visit cultural and sports associations in Croatia and who will share the notices ahead after Sunday Masses in Croatia. And finally, be patient, so be patient for another three weeks. And finally, I'm wondering if you really think as well as your spokesman that he's not normal and doesn't have to work in politics for one who won't perform at the 11th constituency, that he's not normal and that there's nothing in politics anyone who won't perform in the 11th constituency.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94536	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94537	First let's fix this last one, it's not true that anyone said it. So that's not true. Anyone who deals with Croatian politics in Croatia has the right to not only at 11. but anywhere in politics and to propagate their ideas. Even more so, it's welcome. Because in their rivalry, in competition, people can choose the best of ideas. Now, as far as this meeting is concerned, that you quoted in Munich. I interpret it like this. There are a number of people who changed addresses, residences, who may no longer be abroad but have returned to Croatia and there are others who have changed their residence from Croatia to another country in the meantime. This is why registration is carried out, i.e. the pre-registration of not all voters, but only those who changed their residence. So if someone in Munchen was in some Rosenheim strasse, and now he's gone to another strasse, which Marian strasse, then if he doesn't register at that new address, the new residence he's not, he'll be in the voters list at that old address and he won't be able to vote. This is the problem and therefore the appeals have been sent to all diplomatic and consular offices, and they have been asked for help and Catholic missions only to warn people that they have to report a change of residence, not to politically agitate for anything else, but to register for a change of residence. Otherwise, they won't be able to vote unless the addresses are valid in the voters' list. Same thing today on the radio. You have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs given one text read on the radio, I don't even know if it's going to be on TV, but it's already read on the radio where people are invited if they've changed their residences to report it to the nearest DKP, diplomatic and consular representation, and that's all. So there will be nothing else, no other political activities will be conducted. I will personally be against any political interference, but every Croatian voter has the right to choose on November 25th. But of course there are differences in views between you and us. We are in favour of all Croatian citizens being equal before the Constitution and before the law and having the right to vote. You are opposed to those who do not live in Croatia, who do not pay taxes in Croatia that they cannot choose. You have the right to do that, though. And if you win the election, and we'll do everything we can not to make it a case, so in terms of political struggle, then we will, we will remain this law. And in case you change that law, when that would happen, I think a great injustice would be done to people who are in '91. assisted Croatia, which sent financial assistance, which sent humanitarian aid to Croatia. Then we didn't ask if she was paying taxes in Croatia. At that time, we welcome all those who helped Croatia. Please, a little. Please. I see that this is an extremely important political issue and that it is being debated. I'll say my opinion, as you say your opinion. For me, all Croatian citizens, all Croatian citizens are equal before the Constitution and have the right to vote. They have the right to be elected and have the right to choose. It is, we cannot create citizens of the first, second and third categories. All Croatian citizens have this right, whether he is Croatian nationality, whether he is a member of a minority of some nationality, all Croatian citizens have the right. Therefore, when the sons of these Croatian families came in '91. To defend Croatia, and to come from all over the world, our young people were also defended by members of our emigrants, as well as members of the Croatian people from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then we were fine. And then we said well that you came to help us. Both in the people and in the finances and in humanitarian aid. We don't need them anymore. Today you would have abolished their right to vote. We are against it and while HDZ is all Croatian citizens will always have the right to vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94538	Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94539	And while the SDP is all Croatian citizens will have the right to vote. The only difference between us and HDZ is that we believe they should not vote in a special constituency, but rather vote towards their residence. ... Well, you can do it for me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what you obviously wanted and you want to do it with this instruction that you had counseling in Munich. This is the abuse of public authorities in parties, it is the abuse of public authorities for private purposes, that is, for the purposes of the political party. The prime minister, or then as president of the HDZ, said he did not want Zagreb to decide who would be in power in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This consultation shows that the HDZ obviously wants Bosnia and Herzegovina, votes from Bosnia and Herzegovina to decide who will be in power in Croatia. But... But allow me, so don't be nervous, but the SDP won't be in the 11th constituency. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The SDP will lead the campaign in space and the Republic of Croatia and the SDP will receive the trust of citizens in the Republic of Croatia and without the list of diaspora and without the votes of diaspora and without the mandate from the diaspora for the benefit of Croatian citizens living in Croatia and who have been evicted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94540	Representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94541	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament and of the Croatian Government, I will ask the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Exactly the question on this subject. The graduation of colleagues isn't about the campaign. The diplomatic network must carry out its legal obligation and this is a legal obligation. Mr. Secretary of State, did the Embassy of the Republic of Croatia, through diplomatic channels in the receiving countries, ask for a way of agreeing to hold the upcoming parliamentary elections in the Republic of Croatia? and in connection with what can be done even more about the previous registration of the list of voters. Because we must ensure every Croatian citizen the constitutional right to vote regardless of technical problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94542	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94543	State Secretary, Hido Bištević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94544	Mr. President, Madam Representative, I think Mr. Prime Minister has mostly responded to the political and said the legal and legal aspect of this answer to this question of yours. I'll do it again for a second. The obligation is for the foreign ministry and the legal tasks to enable and ensure that all Croatian citizens have the constitutional right to exercise them, to exercise their right to choose. The obligation is to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and it does so in a transparent, impartial and technically correct way and it does so. In addition to what Mr. Prime Minister said, it should be added that this procedure, which was contained, is in some way reflected in this issue, is also the consequence of the new law, our new Law on the list of voters where the previous registration was requested. The previous registration refers precisely to these cases mentioned by Mr. Prime Minister, so those voters who will be abroad on the day of the election and who will vote outside, because they will be on an official trip or because I don't know any other reason abroad, those who changed their addresses abroad, those who went from Austria to Germany or from Sweden to Canada, or I don't know where. So they must have the right to vote. But they have to be registered to a polling list where they have their current residence. In this sense, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs held several working meetings with the heads of our diplomatic consular missions and in this sense all of our citizens abroad are either directly or via the Internet or through various organizations that have been mentioned to receive the form very simple, clear and precise form through which they can apply to ensure their electoral rights. In connection with what is mentioned, what other activities are being carried out, the diplomatic network has been instructed that according to these forms, they are being done every week, to see if there is a need for an increase in the number of polling stations. And it has been shown that in some countries, Germany, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is already a need because there are more voters reported through this new procedure. The ministry also ensured the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, so far Austria and Germany, because it is also the ministry's legal obligation, the agreement of those countries to get an increase in the number of polling stations. And that assessment will go right up to two weeks before the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94545	Representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94546	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I repeat this once again is not a diplomacy in the campaign, this is the obligation of the Croatian diplomatic consular network to carry out all the tasks under the law of the Republic of Croatia and the regulations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And as for my dear Mršić's colleague, he's always going where he can be won.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94547	Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94548	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Damir Polancec. The Croatian public is a well-known Privatized Hotel "Excelsior". It was designed and carried out under the stick of Maestro Linic when it was chosen between two offers by her more unfavourable than Goran Štrok. Namely, Goran Štrok's offer for Hotel "Excelsior" was a million and 200 thousand German marks at the time. While another offer from one prominent world tourist company, Sheraton Rebela, the hotel, amounted to DEM 35 million. So 1.2 million DEM versus 35 million DEM that, according to Maestro Linić, was a more favourable offer, so that of the 1.2 million DEM. Despite public opposition by the tourism minister at the time, who publicly held that such an offer is more unfavourable and not a good decision, Maestro Linic confirmed the decision without the presence of the tourism minister at the time. This is more or less known to the Croatian public and only for one comparison. One house in the area where the Excelsior Hotel is located is worth more than a million and 200 thousand DEM. An ordinary family house in the Dubrovnik area. Since this part is known to the public, I ask Mr Polancec, what happened after the signing of the contract, following an agreement concluded between Goran Štrok and the Croatian Privatisation Fund, i.e.... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94549	Deputy Prime Minister, Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94550	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, very much. Let me have some more light on this story. I would like to say that at the time of the invitation to tender for the privatisation of Excelsiora, no business plan is required of anyone who makes the offer. There is also no investment plan required from whoever makes the offer and there has also been no special social clauses for the protection of employees' rights. As you said yourself, the Fund's Management Board decided on 27.12.2000 to accept Mr. Strok's offer. What is most important in this privatisation project is the following. It was necessary to find among other alternative guarantees for guarantees, state guarantees on loans that Excelsior had. Excelsior had 35 million DEM loans covered by state guarantee at the time. In his offer, Mr. Strok stated that he offers the unconditional guarantee "Goldman Saks" by the Swiss bank, as a substitute guarantee for the guarantee, for the state guarantee on these loans. On the day of the signing of the contract, in 21.2.2002, Mr. Strok made an agreement, so-called First agreement. In this first agreement, there is no longer this bank guarantee, the unconditional bank guarantee "Goldman Saksa" but Mr. Strok guarantees as in this story, so to execute so that he will provide replacement guarantees, one agreement proposed by Excelsior as a society, Hypo Bank as a creditor and he as a payer. This Agreement obliges (a) to deliver three bonds, (b) to deliver the Royal Bank's bank guarantee off Scotland at the amount of DEM 10 million and to pay DEM 2 million 800 thousand in cash. In 2002, the State Audit Office conducted a review of the conversion and privatisation of Excelsiora. All this stuff I'm talking about is contained in that report from the State Audit Office. I must say, to mention an agreement which therefore provides replacement guarantees for state guarantees, was not found when I was investigating this case, in the archives of the Privatisation Fund. At our request, he was delivered to us from the State Audit Office. But that's not the end of the story. There is no end to the story because only two months after that a new agreement was concluded, a new contract, a loan agreement between Excelsior, Hypo Bank as a lender and a guaranteeer of Mr. Struk's salary. Under that contract, Excelsior is in debt to DEM 40 million. Of these 40 million DEM with 35 million DEM returns old loans, 5 million is an additional debt for trade capital. What's the guarantee for this new loan? That, of course, releases all those guarantees from Royal Bank off Scotland. So what's the guarantee for that loan? The guarantee for this loan is a) the property of the company "Excelsior" and b) shares guaranteed by the guarantee payer Mr. Strok. So all these decisions are being taken on the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund, which was held at the time in closed form without public presence and without the presence of the media, and now those who call me personally and the Management Board in the current composition that in the case of the KIM we wanted to allow shares of society to be mortgaged, messages to them number one. This is not true because it is an integral part of the offer documentation in the case of the KIM contract, and it clearly states in that contract that shares cannot be the subject of the mortgage. And b) shares were allowed to be mortgaged on a new contract and it turns out after all the analysis that the company bought itself, or paid itself. What Mr. Strok paid, 4 million and 700 thousand kuna for a five-star hotel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94551	Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94552	I thank Mr. Polancec. Well, I think it's clear today who the privatisation crime software is. After this response by Mr. Polancec to the Croatian public where it is clear that the hotel itself bought itself without any real investment by Goran Štrok, I think that what the Croatian public heard today should go primarily to the state attorney's office and in parallel with it examine the sale of two next hotels, the Hotel "Bellevue" which was sold to the physical person Goran Štrok also directed by Maestro Linić and the Hotel "Compas" which was sold off to the... I believe none of you have even heard where it is... [[You don't understand.]] Maybe some are who have off-shore companies. [[You don't understand.]] So off the Shore Company owned by some virtual woman, represented by Goran Strok. I am asking the state's attorney's office, calling him from this pay phone, the basis of this response which is present both in the audit and in the Fund to catch up with the work and to finally bring the software of privatisation crime to an end in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94553	Thank you. Stand by 12.45. It's the representative of Nenad Stazic. Yeah, 12 and 15. Correction, 12.15. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session by asking questions to the members of the government, honourable representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94555	A question for Minister Shuker, and by the end of 2003, the city of Požega and the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded a purchase contract that was then used by the Tax Administration, which was owned by the city of Požega, sold to the state for 14 million kuna. The former government has secured money for the transaction. The provisions of that contract have not been met and the mayor of Požega sued the state and won the dispute, of course, in December 2005. It has been ruled that the state of the city of Požega must pay the basic debt clearly and interest amounting to 4 million kuna. The state complained and lost again for the second time in a higher County court but the interest is now double the amount of 7.8 million kuna. So you've ruined 8 million kunas of state money. What is the amount and what could be done for that money. About the same amount of countries each year is set aside to combat drug abuses of 7 million 570 thousand, for captives and missing 8 million 240 thousand, and to help eliminate the consequences of disasters, 7 million and 800 thousand. For the programme of increasing donor numbers and improving the budget transplant programme, 2 million and 700 thousand kuna are allocated. If you hadn't done damages of 8 million kuna in your budget, the transplant program could have been increased 3 times and three times more lives would have been saved. For the prevention of corruption and organised crime in the budget, 4 million and 800,000 kuna were allocated, that the budget did not cause damage of 8 million kuna in this programme twice as much money. I'm asking you, Minister Shuker, how much fire equipment could be bought for the 8 million kuna you've ruined in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94556	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94557	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representative, for asking you one question, even if I can't ask you how much you can buy for 14 million kunas that you wanted to redistribute from the state budget to the local one. You forgot to say that your government led by the late Ivica Racan, made a decision that this must be done by 31. 12. In 2003. Very interesting that all the closest associates of my predecessor Mr. Church, Mr. Trbojevic, who was the head of the tax administration, refused to sign the documents, and refused to sign a payment order. It's not Minister Shuker's doing it, it's supposed to be done by someone before me. I've taken over Ministry 24. 12. Secondly, it is the only purchase of the tax administration's business space in the Republic of Croatia, the only one. There was no tax administration in any city except Požega. The third thing, the court expert estimated space at 12 million and 800,000 kuna, the tax administration commission estimated space at 12 million and 600 thousand kuna, and the Church and Ronko contracted at 14 million kuna. How and why? The other thing, well, the logical thing is if you're buying something from someone to see if you've invested anything in that space, the tax administration, the finance ministry has invested 2 million and 900 thousand kuna in that space, among other things in that 2 million and 900 thousand kuna is one of the vaults that we've made for a wonderful miracle, Ronko and that vault of sales to the finance ministry. So, that's economic behavior, another thing Mr. Stazic should know that the ministry is not representing itself in the dispute, but the State's Attorney's Office. So the State's Attorney's Office represented the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the State's Attorney's Office made a complaint, I am responsible for saying that it was a harmful contract, that it was meant to settle 14 million bonds or bonds issued at that time by the city of Požega and that it was a party agreement on the redistribution of money between the state and local budget, because if in 104 cities there was no need to buy the area of tax administration, and in Požega it was to be bought, then the question is why. The second thing, you need to look at the Tax Administration Act, so you'll see what the Law says about the area at which social income administrations were working later on tax administrations. So, Mr. Track 14 million is far more than 8 million and you can think of what you could buy for 14 million of what you've made at least twice as much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94558	Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94559	First you don't ask the ministers questions to the MPs, not the representatives to you, second, it's not true that it's the only building of the tax administration that's been bought in Koprivnica. Thirdly, if the contract was harmful in your opinion, you could have challenged it, don't throw away the ministers, listen, it'll do you good. If the contract was harmful as you claim, you could have challenged it in court, you didn't challenge it, you have a fourth court ruling, you had to respect the court decisions and you didn't respect them, you put yourself above the court. So when the court orders you to pay, you still refused to pay for it because you have an opinion about it, which is especially your opinion, which is above the court's opinion that you're setting up the cost of this citizen 8 million kuna, these citizens must know that because you didn't want to respect the court's decision as Minister of Finance and to pay the debt by the court's decision, the citizens of this country are damaged by 8 million kuna. Well, Minister, if you had to pay the 8 million kuna out of your pocket, you wouldn't behave like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94560	A representative of the respected Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94561	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer the question to Minister Cobankovic. I believe that you will agree with me that land, and in this case agricultural land is worth a special national importance and that it should also be treated in use. I ask the question again, because I am dissatisfied with the written answer, and it concerns the lease of agricultural land in Virovitica-Podravska County. I would remind you that several municipalities there had been tendered for the lease of agricultural land and so far long-term tenants were working on the land for 13.14 years. In this competition, they failed despite the fact that they had met all the obligations that they had to handle the land neatly and made the most favourable offer. They are tobacco producers and large dairy producers, some of whom have also been credited by the state or through capital investments giving funds and are now in a situation that simply their production has to go to an end if something is not done. They filed a constitutional suit for the protection of their human rights and their existence. In the city of Ilock, it was not a lease, it was a sale of 180 hectares of land intended for long-term crops. A number of irregularities in the conduct of this tender were warned to the City Council and a group of council members, however their objections were not taken into account without success. Thus, according to the data on the sale of that land, a portion of your family came to a valuable land of special convenience. So I ask you, in these few cases, will you take the measures taken, monitor and protect lawlessness and fight nepotism?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94562	Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94563	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Dear Madam MPs, I fully agree with you that resolving the issue of agricultural land is something that is crucial in agriculture and accordingly there is a Law on Agricultural Land which regulates the way of availability and the way of all operations related to agricultural land. In accordance with this, the Law of the Units of Local Self-Government is those which, for the space of their municipality or city, adopt a programme of availability where agricultural land must be provided for the return programme, and then, according to the types of purpose, the agricultural area for the lease, agricultural area for the sale and the agricultural area for concessions is determined. As regards return, this is what is regulated and what is the question of denationalisation and, on the basis of the requests submitted, it must practically be harmonised. As far as other forms of availability are concerned, and first of all to say about the lease and the sale, it is done that family agricultural economies are in order, while the form of concession is a legal person priority. I cannot answer you precisely what is being done in the area of Virovitica County, because it is practically done in the area of individual units of local self-government or different programs in certain units of local self-government. This law was passed, you know very well in 2002. As such, he set the basics. We, in this term, have changed a few times, but not the essence and essence of the law. We changed to improve it, to make it more efficient, faster, and so on. And so I see no problem in implementing land policy. They also have a problem for sale where virtually no land can be sold that is not arranged, so where there is a need to solve the terrain, align with the Catastre, a catastrophe with the grantine and the like, but it's already another story. In the form of a lease and sale of municipalities or cities, the decision of the municipal or city council shall give the decision to call for tenders, to open the invitation to tender of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy shall give consent or to simplify the legality of certain operations. Following the completion of the tender, the municipal or city council shall decide on a proposal from the Commission. The decision, according to those bidders, also follows the ministry and the ministry only whether a certain decision has been taken in accordance with the priorities set out in the Agricultural Land Act and gives consent or deny consent. It's not the ministry that decides who gets what land. Only in the case of identified irregularities can the ministry deny consent. As far as the concession is concerned, it is a form intended for legal persons and for concessions is called by the government and the decision is made by the Government on a proposal from the Commission for the concessions of the ministry. Now let's go back to this conditionally spoken personal question. It doesn't surprise me. My family deals with agriculture, a narrow family, and thank God and the wider family and it is relatively large and normal that they have reported to a certain, conditionally told my parents to tell the relatives in that contest. In Ilock, according to the city council's decision, one of the smallest maximums for plant production is up to 15 hectares, for long-term plantations of 4 hectares. From my family's ropes, so my kids practically didn't show up for anything about agricultural land. And based on what we've determined on the city council's decision, on those particles that, where there were certain irregularities, we've denied consent, it's about two or three particles, and there were about 150 of them somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94564	Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94565	Well, I am, of course, dissatisfied with the answer, because this is the third kind of response that comes from the ministry around this moving case. The Minister describes to me the procedure of how landlords, i.e. in concession, are sold for hire. I asked on a specific example. Unsatisfactory farmers are told by the ministry that they are not competent, which is not true. Now the minister also responds that they actually control and give consent. So the man who spoke to you on August 20th got that answer. You answer to me that you can't specifically monitor me because I didn't list people's names. I can tell you that, too. However, you are required to control how the tender procedure and the execution of the tender and the allocation of land has been carried out. Therefore, it is not necessary for me to give you names, but rather for you in the ministry, i.e. the competent services, to ask the units of local self-government that have done so, on which the work has been stated to provide us with the documentation. What you're saying is a personal question, that's also the question of how a man who's in a certain position is actually looking at the fact that, during his term and conduct of office, he can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, or can't, is it moral or isn't supplying his family.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94566	Ladies and gentlemen, just for a moment we would interrupt this one, and he would suggest that we put in the agenda a proposal from the Mandate-Immunity Commission to take Dr. Marijana Mlinarića to go to the second representative of Zdravko Malter from the HDZ list. Do we agree to put it on the agenda? Consent. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94567	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. President! I am asking the Minister of Finance Mr. Shucker, and it is about strengthening the financial market and the demands of some opposition political parties to introduce a capital gains tax. According to the latest data, the total number of pension fund members in late August reached a figure of 47.1 million and 337 people, while the total assets of all pension funds exceeded 20 billion kuna. Compared to the end of last year, the total assets of pension funds increased by as much as 3.7 billion kuna. At the same time these days we are witnessing the exceptional interest of Croatian citizens to buy THT shares that are in public offering and many of them will buy these shares either by saving or by raising loans. Due to this great interest, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Decision on sales and additional shares at the last session. For months, however, some opposition political parties in the first row of the SDP have speculated that a tax on possible stock earnings should be introduced as soon as possible. I am interested in whether this is compatible on the one hand with the development and strengthening of the financial market, which is extremely important for Croatia at this stage. And on the other hand, by introducing a capital gains tax. And two. I'm interested in the introduction of capital gains taxation, I wonder if there are any projections at what rate the assets of the funds would grow and could such a provision harm or even bring down pension reform in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94568	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94569	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The HDZ tax policy is based on the fact that new taxes are not introduced, that no new tax burden is introduced, but that more income is collected by increased tax discipline and that existing taxes can be reduced. This is the basic principle for which HDZ is managed in the conduct of tax policy. However, with the proposal to introduce a capital gains tax, I think those who propose it have hidden much from the Croatian public. Because it's not just the introduction of that share profit tax. What's going to happen to the interest tax? Because investing in savings or investing in shares is exactly the same thing. It's a matter of free choice how someone wants to invest their money. The question arises what will happen to the Croatian Defence Fund? Because you know, if we put 7% of HT shares and 7% of INA shares in the Croatian Defence Fund. What will happen to shares and profits on shares of former and current INA and HT employees who will have significant discounts, and this discount will normally be counted as some kind of profit, because it is spoken of as nominal value? So, a series, a series of vague questions. And finally, when we know that today we have four pension funds that have over a million and 350 thousand members, it also means by introducing a capital gains tax, that these profits will be reduced by one fifth tomorrow. So, by hiding that there is little to be done for a few cases, in principle, it wants to introduce a new imposition on Croatian citizens at times when the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given Croatian citizens the opportunity to buy shares of the INA, at times when the Government of the Republic of Croatia has allowed Croatian citizens to buy shares of HT. And instead of using these funds to boost economic growth and to invest in the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia, so automatically and in reducing unemployment, in increasing gross domestic products, some want to tax it. And that is a clear message to Croatian citizens as it happened to them in 2001. Remember the tax on unused entrepreneurship properties. Remember the tax on unused land. Finally, the Constitutional Court declared it illegal. There are some who are used to increasing tax burdens and a wider tax invasion, but there are also some that increase tax discipline and revenue in the budget and thus allow for a reduction of tax duties. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94570	Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94571	I thank Minister Shuker. I am satisfied with this clear and precise answer, because I personally think that the introduction of capital gains tax is counterproductive, that the Croatian capital market is still young and that it should not be burdened with new taxes. And I don't think it leads to either strengthening the Croatian economy or improving the standard of living for Croatian citizens. And that's why I'm glad to hear that this government guarantees that there will be no new taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94572	Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94573	Dear Mr. President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I ask my representative a question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Ivo Sanader. In the fourth quarter of this year, the payments of compensation, the fourth war of variant A, the second war of variant A of family pension and the highest working pension and the first war of variant B of around 2.2 billion kuna or 2 billion kuna and 200 million kuna, the compensation project will go half of its realisation. According to our latest knowledge and evaluations, about 7% of the people who have been damaged have not entered the system of compensation in the spirit of the Constitutional Court decision and the resolution of this problem is one of the new priorities of the Croatian party of pensioners. My question does not refer to it, but reads as follows. What does the Government of the Republic of Croatia do in providing funds for the Pension Fund so that compensation can be paid within the legal time limit? The answer to this question is interested in at least 450 thousand pensioners and, or their families and on their behalf, I will be grateful for the precise answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94574	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94575	Mr. Representative! You are as skillful as ever to question the fourth war of those who began two years ago, or the second war of these families that we started this year, added something else. I appeal to you and, as our partners in the parliamentary majority, not to throw problems over and over again. We have them in Croatian society all we want. But I will remind you before answering this question about the fourth war and how the government thinks about providing funds to pay off those fourth wars or other family pensions, that we have solved this year and the question of new pensioners. And please nice, I want to determine one fact. Since the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Croatian Government, and in agreement between the Croatian Democratic Community and the Croatian Party of Retired and other partners in the Croatian Parliament, has made a solution for the new pensioners and voted the law here, no one is talking about it anymore. That's good on the one hand. ... Wait, wait, wait. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's good on the one hand, because that means people are happy. If it could have been more and more, man always expects it to be more. It's human nature and I absolutely understand it. But it's not good for us to forget it and say it was settled two months ago. The government made it happen and let's look for a new one now. "The human heart always needs something. It's never completely satisfied. As soon as the desired goal is rediscovered from his desire." I wouldn't want it to be the motto of our partners of the Croatian Retirement Party. [[Applause]] Let's be realistic, let's concentrate on what is most important and the most important message is for Croatian pensioners, which is the number 450 thousand people in Croatia today that the fourth war will be paid and I guarantee it from this pay phone in the Croatian Parliament, that it will be paid by the end of the year. We'll see when, we'll find the funds through T-HT privatisation. Therefore, this privatisation of Croatian Telecom serves to find funds and to pay Croatian pensioners the fourth war and those who carry family pensions the second war, and the first war for those who opted for a regular path. That's one thing. Secondly, it is likely that you are also in a party of pensioners and HDZ, arriving, and it was probably the reason and motive of your inquiry today, the concerns of Croatian citizens who hear both such and such voices are coming and say whether this might come at risk because of an election campaign, because of any change in government. My answer is neither will it be in danger nor will there be a change of government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94576	Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94577	Mr. President, I thank you for your comprehensive response. What you have said in such a beautiful poetic way is called an increase in aspirations in psychology, it is legitimate and I would ask you in the end something that is not an increase in aspirations, which is that I am asking you to finally read our proposals in the Croatian Assembly which are also legitimate and are tied to the defender for the pensioners and Christmases. I'll be very grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94578	As it's poetic, it's also said, "Peace, calm my heart.". Petar Preradovic. And Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94579	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear members of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask my question to Mr. Branko Vukelic, Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. As I come from Slavonski Brod, the heart of the metal industry can say that thanks to certain moves by the Croatian government and the Ministry of Economy in 2006 the county economy for the first time performed positively. Also, the development locomotive "Djuro Djakovic" in 2006 has done positive business for the first time since its beginning in 91. Also, thanks to the understanding and assignment of cars on the light armored military production vehicle on the part of the Pelješac bridge, the capacities of Đure Đaković are filled and there should be no difficulty. The continuing growth in industrial production is the continued growth of exports in my county, talking about the recovery of a metal industrial complex in Slavonia and Baranja. But my question, I didn't just say this to establish this, but also a branch that has problems, so I would ask a question about the textile and clothing industry in Croatia that employs more than 30,000 workers and given its working intensity and exposure to international competition, this branch of industry is in an extremely difficult position. A similar or almost identical situation is also with the textile industry throughout Europe. The last government completely ignored the textiles. According to union leaders in the branch, she refused to accept them even for conversation. The government launched a three-year support programme for the textile industry three times 20 million kuna. Are these funds, Mr. Minister, enough to preserve the textile industry in Croatia and preserve jobs? And I want to ask you in general what are the perspectives of the textile industry in Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94580	Minister of Labour and Economy Branko Vukelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94581	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Parliamentarian, first of all, what you have said is that the situation in the metal industry or Đuro Djakovic is extremely good today and the capacity of 100% filled-in employees in the long term in the coming years, but I want to say it is not just in the metal industry. It is in the entire Croatian industry. and what is important to say that this government has implemented specific measures and programmes over the past four years to promote faster industrial growth or growth of production. So we turned to production and we have an average of around 1% faster growth in industrial production than we did in the previous period. We have what's particularly important is the growth of productivity in industry and that growth that follows, and that growth has even come to 9% at the beginning of this year. But this growth in productivity is accompanied by employment growth at the same time, which means that this production is also accompanied by a higher number of jobs. This is what this government is proud of and what is important for the prominent because really the difference between this government and the former SDP is that we have turned to production. If we said trade is good and we are not against trade but first of all we need to strengthen production, industrial production, that base should be strengthened, which is the assumption of a stronger growth in exports that is the priority of economic policy in Croatia. It is also important to say that a special branch that has special difficulties as mentioned in the industry is just a textile industry, the clothing industry and this government has first launched a three-year support project for the textile industry. I don't want to say that I'm glad that the SDP government hasn't introduced such programs before, I don't want to say that it's a good thing that maybe we're not in the industry, so we've been looking at it with special attention before. First of all, I think that it is right to anger trade unions, and employees, and employers in the textile industry that when negotiations and the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, there is no assumption that we will get a transitional period towards the European Union, for joining the European Union when it comes to the textile industry. These are unfavourable circumstances. But the chance for textiles exists, for textile and clothing industries. This three-year project, with 20 million kunas, has had its full impact because it is aimed at raising the competitiveness of the branch. I0 also, it's not the only means. I mean, we've shared this year when it comes to market performances, market studies, marketing activities somewhere around 25 million kunas for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and a large part of companies in the textile and clothing industry are small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We are now ahead of the launch tender... the system, therefore, which is designed to boost the competitiveness of the textile industry, where new latest technological achievements will be used in the textile industry and these funds are projected somewhere around 5 million kunas this year, therefore for textiles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what is particularly important is we, here last week the task force finished the job and this proposal for a textile industry development programme until 2013 is going and headed towards the Competition Protection Agency towards other authorities of the state administration. Therefore, a new six-year programme for the development of the textile industry, which should be a continuation of what we have done in these four years and which should also provide significant resources for both credit and support and regional and horizontal, all those allowed today and under the State Support Act. So, a program that should give textiles a chance to save jobs, because in textiles you are and said 30,000 workers mostly women. The textile industry is a specific industry, labour intensive and in case of jobless remains, it is difficult to manage the labour market. And that is why textiles is extremely important for Croatia, which is why this government has put it at the top of its priorities, and therefore this six-year-old programme, the next one that should be difficult under these projections, and over a billion kunas will also allow for the use of therefore authorised support and also favourable credit resources to be directed towards better quality jobs, according to higher value-added transactions according to its products or higher level of business. So, not only clean labour services but also certain higher-quality jobs. This is why I want to send a clear message to the textiles once again, and this government will give them full support to stand on their feet and be competitive in Croatia and its environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94582	Representative Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94583	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, a lot of good moves from this government from agriculture to the metal-industry complex have been felt in this county as well. I can tell you the summary – the result is the smallest and lowest unemployment rate from the 1990s to today. Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94584	Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94585	Thank you very much. Minister Cobankovic, at the beginning of your term, you said our first goal is to reduce food imports. What do we have at the end of the term? Food imports are almost doubled. A few specific examples when we look at specific figures. In the first 6 months of 2007, 959 million 752 484 US dollars were imported in the Republic of Croatia, almost a billion. What is certainly worrying – I believe that you too are concerned that instead of the growth of exports, exports are falling, and imports are growing, and the deficit for the period we are talking about is a record $424 million. The question is the goal, the question is the achievement. This is 31.8% more than the 2006 trend very negative. Also, one of the objectives you set are operational programs. I'll just tell you a few of them. The operational programme for raising cattle farms on 8 July 2004 provides for the rise of 1200 dairy farms and 200 farms for the production of cows, calves. According to your response to the parliamentary question, 139 loans have been granted in the HBOR so far, which clearly says that 1200 farms have nothing but a percentage of barely 10%. A similar situation will remind you of the operational plan to raise vineyards and orchards in 2004-2007 amounting to 15000 ha. The government's conclusion on your proposal of 15000 new orchards and 13000 ha new vineyards. Drought, an extremely big problem at all. And what I have to ask as a question, which is there is no Mr. Minister of Law enforcement and violation of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The Agriculture Act The Annual Report on the State of Agriculture in the previous calendar year shall be produced by the Ministry no later than 15 May of the current year to the Government, and the Government shall send the Croatian Parliament by 30 June at the latest. Why didn't you send a report that we could, not in such short time, because we're running out of debate about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94586	Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94587	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here I am, from what I said in 2004, standing still today and I can say that I am extremely pleased with the results that we received mainly in the foreign trade. Mr. Representative, I respect you as much as possible, but when the data is presented, then both sides must be represented. It can't be talked about increasing imports, not mentioning an increase in exports, and if we're going to mention an increase in exports then there are indicators significantly I'd say much more favourable than those you've been exporting to increase imports. But finally, here, I'm just going to say three numbers because of course we're maimed a little over time. Monitoring the external trade balance in agricultural and food products I can really say a lot, but I'm going to say three figures. In 2004, export coverage in the agricultural and food sector 51%. 2005 export coverage in the same sector 57%. In 2006, export coverage was 65%. If we know that export coverage is somewhere between 48, 49%, then these indicators in the agricultural and food sector are truly extremely satisfactory. As for 2007, you're a little late with the data again, so you speak up to six months. The seventh month is already much more affirmative because, of course, it doesn't suit you. There's already been a change. The seventh month has changed, the eighth will be even more favourable and I here in front of this House of Commons once again say that in 2007, we will not have a lower coverage of imports by 65%. We can only have something bigger. As for the operational programs, so, Mr. Pancreati, my predecessor, I don't think you should really ask what's been done with the operational programs. The operational programs gave their results. Finally, the result of an operational programme of bovine animals is an increase of 25% of milk production during this period of office or you 100 million liters of milk or you 300 million kuna of new money in agriculture. Yeah, 124 farms along the way... 570 farms which are new, which have been restored in this period of office, as opposed to I will have a chance here now it seems to me these days to open 4 farms in one county, in one municipality of 5 kilometers apart. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr Pancretic, four farms are not open for four years of your term. About vineyards? [[Applause.]] So by 2004 we had a disaster that our vineyards fell from the 1980s, the end of the 1980s with 60,000 ha we came dear friend to only 30,000 ha with a constant reduction of surfaces. We finally managed to stop it from cramping more vineyards than it is raising, and that's what I would say a great result. Without this year, we planted cca. 16 thousand acres of new plantations. I don't want to compete with any of the previous mandates, but unfortunately, as long as it's been left alone, it hasn't been so planted since 2003. And finally, And finally I have something I confess as my sin, we didn't send a report to the Parliament. [[Applause.]] But, dear friend, unfortunately, our capacities are low. We, as agriculture, must do priority tasks rather than send a report, which is to harmonise legislation with the European Union, prepare for screening, prepare negotiating positions and everything else. For example, in the last year of the 94 sublegal acts brought by the government in total by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy have produced 44. I, as my sin, accept, did not respect the legal obligation, but looking at certain priorities, I decided that it is still more important to satisfy what is more important in the EU accession process than this. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94588	Now will Honorable Representative Bozidar Pankretic express his satisfaction or something else?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94589	Pleasure. So I must say, not entering, if I may, not entering the capacities of the minister or associate or the entire ministry, the law is the law and it must be enforced. If it cannot be executed it must be changed. I'm asking you nicely, about some of the things you've brought out they're fake, especially about building certain things, and these data that I've been telling you are accurate from HGK. Unfortunately, you have not disproved them, and you yourself know the situation in the country is extremely difficult, people are affected by this drought, expecting certain suggestions. All nearly counties have declared an elemental disaster, the village needs help. I believe that because of this all that has been done so far, you have to make additional efforts to help, we'll discuss it because HSS has made a proposal for compensation for elemental disasters, but I believe it would be a good thing if we had discussed agriculture in total through the Green Report, not here for a few minutes and interrupted by applause. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94590	Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94591	Thank you, Mr. President. I will refer my question to Minister Marina Matulović Dropulic. Madam Minister, some local media in Sisak are showing up again about further air pollution in the city, whether the Klaus facility is finished or not. We have to point out here as a Sistian, I come from that city, that this government is the first and only to discuss the modernisation of the oil refinery in Sisak compared to improving air quality. As early as the first year of office, I will remind all of us in July 2004 also made decisions on the necessary measures, a recovery programme was developed and all necessary permits were obtained. In October of last year, our Prime Minister also opened the beginning of works on the Klaus plant, the first of a series of measures to address the problem of air pollution in Sisak. Given the calls, they are becoming more and more common than some of our political parties who are now really loud, probably because of the pre-election campaign, which at the time when they were in power did nothing to do with air pollution in Sisak, not one concrete measure to address the problem. I wonder what kind of situation the Klaus plant is in right now. Because it can be heard on mammal's streets every day that maybe it's not finished, that INA's keeping something secret. Please respond for public opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94592	Minister Marina Matulović Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94593	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, precisely, Madam Representative said that the key decision of this government was made in July 2004 when it began to develop a programme to modernise refineries, especially in Sisak, because the government also said that, apart from the Sisak River, it had priority. So these programs come true, and now I'm going to say how. In that program, the first thing that was listed was the Klaus facility. The Klaus facility is over and it's been in probation since 19.9 this year. In addition to this facility, six auxiliary chimneys were made, because we all know that the chimney was in catastrophic condition and that it had to be reconstructed. These 6 auxiliary chimneys also have measuring devices so that the air is constantly controlled. In addition, construction works on the hydrodensulforisation of gasoline have been launched so that we can produce quality gasoline, such gasoline as Europe requires, of course, and a completely different situation in environmental protection. So all these papers are done, and Klaus is in trial production. As for other short-term measures, our Environmental Protection Inspectorate has been monitoring the construction work on Klaus himself today on these other facilities. As far as environmental protection inspections are concerned, she is constantly present and has significant results. Namely, I must say, we've paid special attention to the maintenance of the facility at all times. In fact, we know that there were a lot of problems and a lot of gaps before in the maintenance process. It's gone today and we've also tracked down that the oil that's being processed has no more than 1% of the sulphur. The results are such that from the beginning of this year to the end of the 7th month no tolerance for benzene has ever been exceeded. As far as sulfur dioxide was concerned this year, there was no excess. As far as the sulfur pipeline is concerned, it's 10 times less concentration than it was the previous year. So it's been done a terrible lot. All our citizens can track at the measuring stations. Today we are just ahead of the appointment of new 9 measurement stations throughout Croatia. And we must say that the one that is happening today in Sisak is also following the commission established on the basis of the conclusions of this House. Otherwise, for these investments in Sisak and Rijeka, spend by the end of 2010 a billion and 100 million dollars and I am sure we will have clean air, first category air as our citizens deserve. And, of course, it's not everyone's right to be like this, that the situation is what it is, that it's seriously done and that serious funds are being spent. And I'm not surprised. But what surprises me is that the entire public was led by a person who worked at the ministry, who could take certain steps in the previous term and did absolutely nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94594	Representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94595	Thank you. Madam Minister, this is really good news for my fellow citizens, but I ask you that this is not the final solution with Klaus for air cleanliness like you said, that this modernization continues to monitor at this rate which you have so far controlled and planned at the rate and I also really thank you on behalf of my citizens, because here now, after a series of these measures are finally going to be taken down by Sisak as polluted air, because the city of Sisak is really not black or polluted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94596	Representative Ivan Drmić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94597	The public already knows the problem of financing Osijek's gym "City Garden" although unfortunately this story has not yet been brought to an end, many things are already known and clear even though I personally have a doubt, one ambiguity, so I would ask Prime Minister Sanader a question. As known, the city council recently rejected former Mayor Ante Djapic's proposal, in which the school sports hall in the town of Sject was to cost about 900 million kuna. This is funding according to the public private partnership model. The wider public in Osijek by towers on several occasions comes to the discussion that this is about crime and corruption you must admit that there are reasonable doubts given the high, rudely high price of 900 million kuna costing such a hall. Mr Djapic, while defending his proposal on several occasions, hid behind negotiations with the Croatian government, that the government conditioned such a funding model and, of course, there was also such a high and rude price that is causing both crime and corruption, which I hope the competent state authorities will soon question. I'm asking the prime minister's question. Is it true that he and the Croatian government conditioned Mr. Djapic and the city chiefship that this hall must be financed in such a non-transparent way by public private partnership, that it amounts to 900 million kuna although it is generally known that this hall is more expensive and that there are two other models, it is a credit line and financial licking and that it can cost less than 400 million kuna. This would save nearly half a billion kuna for both the state budget and the citizens of the city of Osijek. I ask you to confirm and bear responsibility for what Mr. Djapic was doing in the city of Osijek or to deny it and publicly express your willingness to save those half a billion kunas to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94598	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94599	Here's the thing. First of all, Mr. Representative, it is not true that the government has conditioned anything. In talks with the mayor at the time, the government said that we had no money and that we were nowhere in any other case, so from Zagreb to Split, to Varazdin, Zadar and Poreč, cities that would organise the World Handball Championship, that we had not given any cash and went to credit borrowing and that the city would give half the state half. That's what we told the mayor that we didn't have that money, as we said to Mayor Bandic, Kurt and everyone else, the Czecho, who cooperated with us. And that's right. That's all. Secondly, what we insisted on was finding a way and there might be a government mistake that we insisted that Osijek not lose the world handball championship. We are looking for this and we are looking for it today and I think it would be a disaster for the city of Osijek, to be a disaster for Slavonia, for Croatia not to play the World Cup, the handball championship in Osijek. Now, when we get a proposal from the city then you say 900, I don't know right now what, 840 million, that's, is that with or without VAT... 691 without VAT plus VAT. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. It's a big sum. I agree with you here. When Mayor Šišljagić's request to the government came to receive his delegation and to hear the other side, I was not in Zagreb that day, I was on my way, I told Vice President Polancec, we absolutely want to hear the other side. And regardless of the political bickering, we care about it as much as you do, and I thank you for this question, because I think this is a matter of exceptional importance not only for the city of Osijek but for the world's handball championship at all, but also for the children who will use that sports gym. ... All right, let me finish. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And Vice-President Polancec received Vladimir Šišljagic and his delegation who presented the proposal by building, the model of classical credit borrowing, the financial licking doesn't play it anymore, is it, more, just operational licking. Therefore, in that case, according to the proposal that you have made here, which Šišljagic brought out costs the hall about 447 million kuna, but also what is now a trap, so I would like it to be cleared up just like you. There's no room maintenance in that number for 25 years, no heating, no water, no electricity, no cleaning, etc. If we calculate all this together and it's less price than the one Djapic suggested, we'll accept yours. Namely, I beg you. Since the situation in Osijek is as it is, there has been a break-up of the coalition and there is a great possibility of choosing a new mayor, as well as the possibility of not choosing a new mayor and going to early elections. It would be bad if such a situation, and every day as the days go by, we lose time needed and necessary to build a hall. I appeal to former coalition partners if they are to be involved, to achieve perhaps a co-consensual consensus in Osijek when it comes to this project alone. I really don't want to profit from either HDZ or anyone in this situation, because it's a difficult situation, and it would be a disaster if Osijek didn't get a gym and for the children who were going to use it for the world handball championship. It would be a shame if Osijek didn't organize the World Handball Championship. If there is a Mr. Drmić and Mr. Djapic, if there is a good will to include all the parties that are in the Osijek City Council to see which model is best and to put vanity into another plan, regardless of Djapic, regardless of the Šišljagic solution to be found, the Government is ready to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94600	Representative Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94601	I'm happy with the answer. Gentlemen this is the Croatian Parliament is not a zoo, so behave accordingly. In these 440 million kunas, maintenance is included and I guarantee that the hall will be ready in time, because the hall in Osijek has completed its foundations, unlike Split, where no building permit, Poreč and Zagreb have been issued, where they have not yet come to the stage in which the Osijek Hall is now located.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94602	Injury of Rules of Procedure Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94603	Mr. President, MP Drmic has abused the current clock to use a whole series of qualifications, lunches and lies to embarrass me as mayor because he has no model of Djapic's Mr. President, this is a model of a public private partnership that was made for 4 months by the Croatian government and supported her by her decision, what he says is nonsense. Therefore, at the 4 months of work of the largest private partnership experts in Croatia, government consultants and advisers, and the commission that worked where their president of the HBSSB party in Osijek was doing so, in that same commission he made a decision after those months as in Split, as in Varazdin and Zagreb, it is in these gauges, at 25 years of maintenance. This is the roughest planting he can't fight. There is a model in the contract that we have agreed that at any time the Croatian Government and the city can be paid off by a private partner... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94604	All right, damage to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94605	Mr. Djapic abuses this pay phone... tells lies and deceptions, and finally the time has come for him to be ashamed of his model. Because it's obvious they were trying to steal money. [[The speaker's off, he doesn't understand.]] You wanted to steal 900 million kuna money while people in Slavonia are hungry.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94606	House Vice-President Luka Bebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94607	Mr. President, I'm referring the question to the Prime Minister because there is no Minister Calmeta. After numerous speculations that appear in our and foreign media, I would ask to be informed about the construction of the mainland - Pelješac bridge. Why? In three, four days, I am aware that the governments of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have formed expert groups that eventually agreed on the height of the bridge and the width of the bridge towards the rebels from 200 to 560 meters due to the possibility of turning ships. Please answer me if there are any interferences about this because the bridge is building unquestionably on Croatian state territory between the mainland of Croatia and the Croatian peninsula of Peljesac in order to get the south of Croatia out of isolation. I also don't think that there are any particular reasons to call on any unresolved border issues, this is unquestionably done in Croatian territory where Croatia respects the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina due to the level of the bridge and the width of the rebels, so I ask that it be answered: When the construction of that bridge begins, I know that it was a competition and I know that it is ultimately an appeal procedure. And secondly, I'd like to ask you for the great interest of our people, Zabikovje, if you can answer me when the work on the tunnel of St. Ilija and so is the situation with the beginning of work on another tunnel, which is Ravca Drvenik, who is opening our entire area to Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the Adriatic Sea. Please tell me if it is possible to answer as accurately as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94608	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94609	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I will use your question since it was a single infrastructure project to briefly comment on what Djapić said before even when Djapić's model was not Đapic's model of public private partnership, which is common in all others from Varazdin to Zagreb to Split where we worked, so I used the word Đipić's colloquial, not in terms and when I spoke Šišljagic's not his model but was a credit-debt model. Please don't make it all work out because of the shooting of two parties, former coalition partners in Osijek to fail this, I suggest as Prime Minister that we ignore vanity and see if we need help including all the other parties that are in the city council to find it because every day if this is the model that you suggested, fine. If there's a better model, I'm sure you'll accept it, too, and you'll raise your hand for that better model. As far as the Peljesac Bridge is concerned. And here I want to say first of all, Mr. Vice President that I'm sorry that there are others who dispute that model. But first around Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina are two friendly countries and we will continue as we have so far. In co-operation with the Bosnian-Herzegovina authorities, agree on everything concerning the common interests of both countries, and there is a common interest here. One of Croatia's interests is to connect its two territories, and it is unquestionably Croatia's right to connect its two territories, which is Komarnu, so this part of the mainland to the Peljeska peninsula, and the other is Bosnia and Herzegovina's right to a smooth passage. And we'll just have expert working groups finish the job, not now, a few months ago, respecting what the expert working groups have agreed, and it's two aspects. One is the width of the bridge pillars that ships can pass and another aspect is the height also that ships can pass and we will respect that. When it comes to the border, then from here as Prime Minister of the Croatian Parliament, I make clear and loud orders, where we build the Pelješki bridge has nothing to do with the border issue. It is far from the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, far enough to be built and that border is not questionable. That's what we're throwing away. As for the start of the construction, since the tender procedure has been completed, a Croatian consortium performer has been elected to run the deadline, an appeal deadline that will soon be completed. I expect no later than a month that the works could begin within a month on the construction of the Pelješac-land bridge and I think ladies and gentlemen when we build that bridge that will be one of the biggest and most important projects in Croatia because it connects for the first time after hundreds of years of Croatian territory. Today, when we travel to Dubrovnik, we must go four times if you are going from Split to Dubrovnik or from Metković to Dubrovnik or from any other city by car to Dubrovnik, you must show your passport four times, i.e. your ID card. We need to cross the border. We do not want to say that the highway that goes from the record that will be completed next year, the Dupolje-Ploče stock will be finished, or the Sixth-Ploče next year and that we will not build any further, we want to build the highway through Neum. So it's not an alternative to highways, or other highways. The Ploce-Dubrovnik highway goes through Neum and we will talk to the Bosnian-Herzegovic authorities about this highway and about the passage around Neum, but this is something that is finally extracting Croatia's south, Dubrovnik, the Dubrovnik coast from traffic isolation and for the first time in hundreds of years Croatia becomes connected in territorial terms. And one more thing, Peljeski bridge and I hope that you too will support it up there, and the Peljeski bridge absolutely dear friends pulls Pelješac out of that traffic isolation and lethargy where that beautiful peninsula of ours has been for decades. We expect from this bridge the revitalisation of Peljesac, we expect the revitalisation of the islands that gravitate Peljesac, Korčula, Mljet etc. It is therefore absolutely one of the most important national projects. Also when you asked me, I don't know exactly where they are, but I think they are when it comes to St. Elijah and Ravca Drvenik that the currents, the course, the preparation goes well. When the dates start, I can't say right now, but we're going to build these tunnels that's unquestionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94610	Vice President Luka Babybic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94611	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it was necessary for this Parliament and the Croatian public to explain how you explained it and I don't think there is any opposition that there is a consensus of the government at least in that area, and I also see all over Croatia to open up and finally resolve the issue of isolation of a part of Croatian state territory. I thank and expect that work will soon begin and both on the bridge and on these two tunnels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94612	Representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94613	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking the Secretary of the Department of Health. Namely, the stationary for autistic children and adults of Split-Dalmatia County has been since the 1990s. The year promises or builds in the city of Split. During that time, children are located in Zagreb, and adults who are not cared for by older parents, not some of them, are grown up, 50 and 60 years old. I think those children and those people deserve the same attention, education and adequate accommodation. Imagine now parents from Iža, or Korčula or Hvar who must go to Zagreb. They can never return the same day that they visit their children, and it has lasted for years and years. The location permit is approved, construction is also approved, even the funds are approved. Mr. Secretary, what's the problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94614	Secretary of State Ante Plasimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94615	I thank the honourable representative for asking. For a specific question, allow me to provide you with a written answer. I'm not personally familiar with the situation in Split. I can only say that it is complete, that I agree with your conclusion that it is extremely difficult for parents to travel to Zagreb. It's hard enough already to travel to Split. For this reason, at the level of the ministry in the areas of home, the social care centres have launched a series of actions that you have been familiar with and for the first time we can say that large investments are taking place in the areas of the social care centres, homes for the old and the powerless, a network is created and invested in that part. Allow in particular that the case in Split cannot be answered. That part is in the jurisdiction of the social, therefore our social part of the ministry and that we will provide you with a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94616	Representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94617	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please write a reply, a detailed written response that has been made so far, because we have here a letter from various ministries since the '90s. In '92, 2002, where they promised it would be almost just a matter of time. So it's been somewhere since the '90s. I would pray for a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94618	Representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94619	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I would like to refer the question to Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor. All citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and especially we representatives in the Croatian Parliament, know what important role Croatian defenders played in the creation of the Croatian state. Among the many problems facing me, I have a problem with paying out the pension gaps that have arisen in the translation process, and they are related to their remaining work capacity. The question is, when will the pension difference be paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94620	Vice-President, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94621	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs, we, as I believe you know, have also had an obligation under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their families who entered into force on 1 January 2005 as this obligation was also under other laws, so who was adopted in 2001, the obligation to translate rights as you said, primarily pensions, but also all others. The past government failed to fulfil this translation obligation, and I would like to remind you that, just in the term of office of our Government, we have paid about half a billion kuna to the Croatian defenders and members of their families to pay off the debt from the law of 2001. How the new law came into force on 1 January 2005. We have also foreseen in the new law a deadline in which translation should begin... The deadline is three years from the date of the law's entry into force. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so we're in time. And I want to remind you first of all that we started paying off so these differences regarding translation in April this year. That we paid off the biggest share of the year 2007. That's what Croatian defenders know best. And here, this is an opportunity to announce that we have aligned all jobs with the Croatian Pension Insurance Office with the Croatian Ministry of Finance and that on 5 October the payment of so-called harmonised rights begins, primarily pensions for 2005. For this whole payoff, we have in this year, so for translation according to the 2005 Law, secured about 290 million kuna. Only this payment, which takes place on 5 October, is worth more than 147 million kuna. And in all our fiscal documents, so also in the guidelines, but also in the draft budget for next year, we also envisioned a payment for 2006. That's the amount of, uh, more than 222 million kuna, so 2006. Therefore, Madam MPs, in response to your question, can conclude that we have respected deadlines, that the alignment is ongoing, that here on October 5th will be a new payment related to the 2005 alignment. And I repeat, in the term of office of our government, we also paid off the debts related to translation under the 2001 Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94622	Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94623	Thank you very much. I thank and accept the answer and support all the efforts of the Croatian Government for genuine and systematic care of all groups of Croatian society, especially Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94624	Representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94625	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I had one really good question for the end of my term, but I was forced to go back to the gym and use that time. Mr. President! So when you said you needed to stop vanity to solve this problem, I could say that at no point around the hall there was no speech in my own vanity. Just the other way around. The defence of the construction of the sports hall was also the possibility of defending the Croatian government in the city of Osijek. And despite our confrontations and the campaign we're running, I can say that we, in the resignations I gave to the city of Osijek, stressed that the only reason for the destruction of the project that is mine... The court partner made it so that the Croatian government would not invest so much in Osijek, because it was then stopped and the reason for their existence that I could say that nothing in Slavonia is investing which is not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can always be more and more. In this case, however, I was determined that the Croatian government was very cooperative and wanted the help of the city of Osijek in building the hall. But time is running out for us. There are ministers working on it who can confirm it. The hall won't be able' unless this contract is absorbed, the model we already agreed on. There is a safeguard mechanism that can always be activated and that is what we have achieved in the negotiations because we have had good consultants who were common cities and governments, which is that at any time when the hall is built a city and the government can pay off a private partner. And if they come up with cheaper capital. We could've come this way to this capital. It is very likely that a new city government is not formed on Sunday. And then I appeal to the Croatian government to take advantage of its ability to make a commitment, so I'm talking about thinking about it, that the halls don't stop because there is a protective mechanism in this project, that the hall is going to work, that the government will take over financing until the formation of a new city government. And then with her no matter who she's gonna be, or they're gonna get these authorities to deal with some new model of funding. Otherwise, if we were to go to new competitions that can be dropped by lawsuits and cancellations, etc., we don't have time to build a hall, if we want to finish it by the end of next year. If that's what HDZ points at, I'll be glad about it. Therefore, I ask you, as Prime Minister, to consider taking matters into your own hands, because the big question is how the crisis in Osijek will end and when it will end. I think it's one of the models, because there's a possibility of paying off the hall and having a private partner move away. It exists in all other cities. He's in Osijek, he can do it anytime. In Zagreb, seven years later, I don't know. But in Osijek, as soon as the hall is built, we can throw out if we have the money of 240 million kunas. The hall costs 240 million kuna, its basic price. Everything else is nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94626	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94627	Ha, Mr. Representative! I agree with you in the main position that you have put the problem, which is that the hall is built and that because of the crisis of the city government it is not in question. Well, uh... It's okay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem is each other. On what basis will the Government, on the basis of which legal powers will the Government take responsibility for what the city has brought, and then the Government confirms its share as we have told everyone that we will finance half? We told everyone, but we can't take responsibility for something we haven't worked on. And now the question is, I agree with you. If Sunday's city government is not formed new but comes up, then there must be an election commissioner who should probably be then, probably on the same day that taxpayers' money is not spent on the same day as the state elections. What does that mean? That means two months of loss. I agree with you. And then a new competition, forming a new power, a new competition, etc. So it is a difficult situation when it comes to the hall. And since we want to, I can do it again. I can offer the following as Prime Minister to come and to the representatives of the other side to the government and to discuss this to see how, when I spoke of vanity, I didn't mean you personally, but all together. Because the heavy words have fallen, and who will suffer for it? Citizens of Osijek, hall, children who will not have a hall and the World Cup. Therefore, if you accept both sides, meaning both HSP and HDZ, as former coalition partners, to come to the government, the meeting will be led by Vice-President Polancec, who will normally lead all this and try to find a common solution. 'Cause I guess there's something you said about all this. To prevent the building of the hall and to say, you see, the government is not helping, because it was and, that is, it was also a political platform of the HDSSB. The government isn't helping Osijek enough, which is not true. Or Osijek-Baranja County, or Slavonia in general. We all know and I could now list here for minutes and minutes what we have invested both this government and the previous government in Osijek, in Osijek-Baranja County, in Slavonia. So that's not true. And that was one of the platforms. And I agree with you that we must not allow that platform to attack the Croatian government that it is her fault that the hall was not built in Osijek. But on the other hand, if there is, and there is an counterproposal that says this your proposal is too expensive, we have cheaper. So let's all sit down together with independent experts and see which model is better. For us at the moment when we supported it was that model that you gave and we thought he was okay. If a new page comes in and says the other side and says it's wrong, we're proposing another model. My proposal is no matter how the outcome of Sunday is, let's sit together, see what's best and find a solution for Osijek. For I repeat, the hall in Osijek must be built. The World Handball Championship in Osijek must be played and children in Osijek must have this teaching gym. Who's going to make a political profit? I don't care. It's totally in the other plan. I think we have a moral and historical responsibility to build that hall in Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94628	Representative Ante Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94629	Mr. President, I agree with you. I'll sit down with everyone, even with them if it's about seeing what's going on with the hall. But on Sunday, if the council is disbanded, then it doesn't make sense anymore if the council is disbanded on Sunday if the government isn't formed, which is quite real. But at this point, what does it exist? He's exaggerating the decision of the headship that I've been in charge of and insisting on the government's decision. At this point, we have a real basis for moving into this project, and especially they don't care about the hall. If they cared about the hall, I said I could always apply this article of the contract that says that the hall could be paid at any time. To them, the hall was a cause for conflict and for all of this. We won't burden the Parliament with that. Therefore, I think that if the city council is formed on Sunday, no new city headship is formed that it will not then be the third when the last day is and that after that, it should be seen that the Government has opportunities and jobs to realise what the headship and the government have agreed. Because in order for them to make a new decision, there has to be a new headship that I don't think will be able to form. If they form a new headship, then they will clearly propose this new model. Then it's a different story. But we're gonna, uh, we're gonna be wasting our time, and that's cheaper. That's stories for little kids. So, we have four months of negotiations we've had a president. The best consultants for the public-private partnership in the Croatian government were working and were proposed by the government. On the contrary, there's a coffee shop story, a cobweb that can be cheaper. The hall costs, otherwise the basic construction of 182 million kuna, and this is all the other price of capital. The Varazdin Hall costs as much as the feeling, a little less which is, the Splitian costs more than ours. Osijek hall, we have it, the city has the right to 365 days' use. Split has a right once a week. So, that's a great deal. This can also be confirmed by consultants Marenjak and Skenderovic who have done so. We're wasting our time. If the council doesn't form, the city's headship on Sunday, then the government should find something in my opinion that the hall disappears, and let the new government continue to implement the contract as agreed. I'm appealing to you, and I'm going to sit with them and with you, and that's not the problem with me. I don't have vanity about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94630	Let's sit down, let's sit down. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94631	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here's a question for the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. There is no minister, there is a secretary of state and the Prime Minister may be able to answer this question. Međimurje, Međimurje County is at the very bottom of Croatia by the number of highly educated population. According to available data, only about 4% of Međimurje citizens have higher education. One of the reasons for such a situation is that Međimurje County is the only county whose territory has no high school headquarters, so međimurje students are forced to study in places across Croatia. So their study becomes expensive, and some of these high cost studies make it impossible for them to afford. This is even more pronounced with the fact that Međimurje County, a county with the lowest salaries in the Republic of Croatia. The initiative to open a university in Čakovec has been going on for years. A political consensus has also been reached in Međimurje, but beyond Međimurje, the initiative is not going so well. It's about desert promises and obstructions. Still at the government meeting in Čakovec in September 2005, it was promised that the university would work quickly. At a meeting in the government in 6 months this year, Prime Minister Sanader noted. Međimurje and Chakovec deserve a university and all the conditions have been created for them to start doing since autumn. The fall came, the deadlines for the other universities passed, and from President Sanader we heard it again this Saturday 22.9 at a pre-election meeting in Čakovec. So, I quote: “That is why I am announcing that within a few days, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in cooperation with relevant institutions will decide to open a university in Čakovec.” Here, today, 26.9.2007, so I ask when will finally begin the work of the university in Čakovec?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94632	State Secretary Free Taker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94633	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is true that the Međimurje County Assembly reached a conclusion in May on the launch of an initiative to set up a university and, in that sense, it also sent a request to the ministry to issue a pass. By the way, I note that it is also true that there is not one high school headquarters in Međimurje, but there is a study in Međimurje and there is the possibility that students are studying in Međimurje and since this year at university studies, not just professionally as it has been. So we referred this request to the county's competent authority. This was the National Council for Higher Education, which in the process of assessing the proposal identified one illogicality and requested that the proposal be corrected in this regard. The illogicality consisted of 20 kilometers from Čakovec to Varazdin being proposed to implement the same study program. It's a study, a professional study of construction. The National Council therefore requested that the proposal be corrected in this respect. It was just in the ministry's organization that the accordion lasted. The solution is that this programme is probably implemented by the common forces of the two universities, whether in Čakovec or Varazdin anyway. It is important to streamline available teaching forces, money, spaces, equipment, etc. Just today as we discuss this session of the National Council for Higher Education. And I hope that such a corrected request will receive a passing assessment of the National Council, the bodies so appointed by this Assembly, and will then be referred to the ministry of the proposal to issue a permit in this regard. Otherwise, this requirement for opening a university in Čakovec fully fits into the proposed network or project of a network of higher universities in Croatia. We think that at this point at least four other such universities should be established, not according to the study programme but by the importance of the environment, that is, apart from Čakovec Bjelovar, Sisak, Petrinja and Opuzen. In that sense, the first steps have already been taken, so we hope to get a positive grade and we will be glad if we can give it right away... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94634	Representative Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94635	Here, I can say no to not being satisfied with the board but not satisfied with the overall situation of the church in Čakovec because on the one hand we have the promise of President Sanader that it will be 100% solved so given several times and today we do not know what will happen in the future. Unfortunately, one year has passed, students of this school year are unlikely to enter this university. Some students have had to go to universities in other places throughout Croatia and some, as I said, will not be able to enroll in the university, any university. Therefore, I appeal to all of us to be as responsible as possible in the future, not to make empty promises but to make the right solutions and to make sure that all of us make sure that the school in Čakovec works as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94636	Thank you. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. He's gone. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94637	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government. Two days ago, the government decided to release 32.5 shares of T-HT plus 12% compared to what was planned. The T-HT ownership structure will be 51% Deutsche Telekom, 7% defence fund, 7% employees, 35% small shareholders of them 250 thousand, all of them will earn, God forbid they are taxed. With these, however, 12% will be added to the state budget of at least 3 billion kuna. Now the question is asked, Mr. President, what are you going to do with these eight, nine billion kunas, how much will be obtained by privatizing T-HT, or what will be done with these plus 3, 3.5 billion kunas and more than 12%, and what the new government will be selling tomorrow. And between the lines, if I'm not mistaken, I realized that Croatia's electricity might come soon. God forbid it happens and God forbid someone engages in the privatization of electricity. I now invite you to return with these 3 billion kunas well and those 50% of our pensioners who gave up because of uncertainty or I don't know what, the poorer ones would tell me Istriani so they needed money right away, that is to try to reconcile the old and new pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94638	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94639	I'm sure Mr. Cain's esteemed representative is clear why we went to T-HT's privatisation. We were just going to pay off the pensioners. When the Constitutional Court was in '98. He made a decision on the long pensioners no government had ever found a way before ours, not a force, not a financial asset. ... Yeah, you are a little. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] She didn't find any financial resources to pay that debt back. Now we've found it. But how? By privatizing, there's no one else. And now that you ask me where that money is going. So he'll go mostly to pay the pensioners back. Also, I'll remind you of what I've answered to MP Hrelja. Now, by the end of the year, we have three obligations when it comes to that. The first obligation is to pay off the fourth war to those who opted for a 50% discount and in a shorter time. The second obligation is to pay the second war to the family therefore to the recipients of family pensions. That's the amendment to the law we passed this spring. It's about 43 to 45 thousand people. It's a second commitment. And our third commitment by the end of the year which significantly increases the amount of funds we have to repay is those that have been determined without discount to return the entire sum to them, without discount for six years. And now it's about that if it's too high in the fund to do it for another year because by the year and the next five, six years we have to pay back the debt to those who said we won't discount for two years we want the entire sum to pay us off but for a long time. It's about the pensioner. As far as further privatisation is concerned, I did announce in one of the answers to one of the distinguished representatives here that we will go because this kind of privatisation in which all Croatian citizens participate shows the best, most transparent and that we intend to go to other similar privatisations about either the initial public offer or the secondary public offer, we will further discuss it, inform the public in time. We want the financial market to develop in Croatia, we want Croatian citizens, if possible, to be their personal and anyone's other decision, to participate in this, but they themselves bear responsibility and risk for the success or failure of investment in shares. We always make that clear. So, we intend to go into further privatisation but not HEP. So, HEP definitely. What might be considered is, for example, Croatia's insurance part, some other companies might be considered, but I wouldn't speculate at this time. Just your direct question is whether or not we're thinking about HEP. About HEP not very clearly and loudly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94640	Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94641	And I'm satisfied and I'm not happy with the answers. Here's plus 3 billion kuna. I repeat, I also hope that Croatia's electricity will not come in line. We sold the banks to the INA, 25% and we gave them 50% of the management rights, which is the same pearl of its kind, we spent full privatisation on Pliva. So what tomorrow? Despite the growth of the 6% gross social product without privatisation, we are all aware that social programmes will come into question and instead of privatisation, it is time to start thinking about revisions. But once again I say, here we will have 3 billion kuna in our budget more than we planned and I call on the government to pay off the pensioners entirely and to equalize the old and the new.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94642	Representative Vladimir Kurečić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94643	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. President of the Croatian Government and ministers. I am asking the parliamentary question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Petar Cobankovic. The appearance of classical swine fever in the Republic of Croatia has disrupted traffic in recent months, i.e. the market for nursing and sows, especially in some parts of the Republic of Croatia, such as in Ludbrescu, the area of Varazdin County, which has been declared infected, or threatened, and is prohibited from traffic with all categories of swine fever. In order to help manufacturers in the situation of impossible pig placement, we initiated, I thank the Minister for the implementation, the intervention ransom, so about 15 thousand children were bought out of which the vast majority ended up in this, all the happiness. And about 5 grand in cash. The problem has been solved and people have been helped. As some, especially politicians, have found that vaccination against classical swine fever has been abolished because of the raving of the trade and import lobby, I think the minister will respond and point out first, why vaccination against classical swine fever has been abolished. Secondly, what is the current situation regarding the occurrence of diseases in the Republic of Croatia? And thirdly, how do you see Mr. Minister's future of pig farming in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94644	Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94645	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, thank you for your question. There's been a lot of debate about swine fever in this High House. It was also controversial, there were different views, views, etc. But let me just say that practically swine fever is a very dangerous disease. Pig plague is something that threatens pigs. But to say that the elimination of vaccination is a function of eradication of swine fever. As long as vaccination of swine fever virus is located in a latent state in the pig population. This is why the European Union has applied the same measure as the European Union in 2005, which was in some way part of our harmonisation of our legislation with the legislation of the European Union. The second thing, non-vaccination against swine fever in some way eliminates the possibility of imports, not in some way, but completely eliminates the possibility of importing meat from countries where it is vaccinated against swine fever. What exactly did it mean? By 2005 Croatia had been vaccinated and Croatia could not export meat and meat processing based on pig meat to countries where vaccination was not carried out. Since 2005 Croatia has a similar status and Croatia can no longer import meat from countries where swine fever is being vaccinated. So other than what non-vaccination is a health veterinary measure it is in some way also a measure, a trade measure. And what happens from the moment of non-vaccination of pigs and inability to import? It's mainly about countries where they split the "dumpi" prices of pig meat. I'll say a few indicators. When we compete in 2004 and 2007, then we come to the conclusion that this pig has increased by 60%. When we compete in 2007 and 2005, it's a 50% increase. So there was an assumption that this pig in Croatia was becoming something interesting. And it's good for our pigs. And for this reason, it is certain that pork farming will have one upward trend in the next period in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the current situation is not favourable, not because of swine fever, but because of the current situation related to the very high price of livestock food, or basic cereals entering livestock. But that's something right now. And that's why we in the ministry are looking for certain ways and models to help cattlemen now, because practically realistically considering the situation of the most severe effects of drought as a elemental accident has been transferred to livestock farming. Plant production is, the prices of the plant production products have practically doubled or almost tripled from normal prices. And it is not only a trend in Croatia. This has become the current world trend. And that's why swine husbandry is currently in a very difficult situation, and so is the rest of herding. But, in general, watching the future of pig husbandry in Croatia is extremely positive. As for the swine fever situation. We were forced to go conditionally to some more radical measures on traffic bans and so on. That's why we've been carrying out the interventions, solving the surpluses of pigs and so on. And we got some results. Today I can responsibly say that we keep the entire swine fever under control, that it is practically reduced to minimum minimums and that it is practically time for those who have said here if the minister solves a swine fever like this to build a monument. So I'm ordering them to slowly come in and take action.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94646	Representative Vladimir Kurečić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94647	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm envious of the answer. And I would especially like to stress that, with respect for all zoo-technical sanitary conditions of registered transport and with organised production of genetically better material than we have so far in Croatia, there is certainly a good perspective, especially on the huge European market, thanks to the measures that have been implemented and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94648	Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94649	Thank you. A question to the Prime Minister. Here in the Croatian Parliament I have been talking about huge illegalities in Croatian road construction for some time now. The competent national authorities are quite uninterested in establishing the truth. But he'll have to deal with it sooner or later. Maybe their incentives will be the new amazing things that are going to happen. It has never happened before, they say the newly built viaduct on the highway should be destroyed because the quality of concrete is not appropriate. So how will it be when it is generally known that a significant part of the material instead of the highway is used to build apartments, apartments and holiday homes that are paid bribes for jobs. I don't know if there's any final responsibility, but she's suspected of a company that's massively getting jobs... Get out. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94650	Please, peace. Make it possible for the representative to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94651	So he's suspected of a company that's massively getting jobs past a co-op and is doing the most demanding, and thus the most expensive work, and that there are often no references for them. Will we, like in Sicily, witness new storms of windows, bridges, tunnels? Perhaps already on the Rijeka-Zagreb highway whose equipment can't do without an affair, this time at international level. According to the 2004 study, the planned means of highway equipment in full profile amounted to around 306 million kuna, and the tender selected the offer of Dalekvod worth 529 and a half million kuna, which was not only more expensive than the planned amount by 75% but was also 26 million more expensive than the other, more favourable... I point out that I am not interested in any company here, but rather interested in how Croatian taxpayers' money is spent. Six months ago, I said that just now the machinations in road construction would be the noose that would pull the entire government into the abyss of corruption and crime, and that is now without a doubt in action. But before you sink your strength and answer whether you stand personally behind these murky works in road construction, or if you do not support this crime that you intend to finally do to sanction it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94652	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94653	Mr. Representative, this was probably the last question you'll ask in the House at all, because in the elections you won't be elected, so you probably used it to charge everyone and everyone again, for example, you forgot to say what happened to the defenders' apartments, which you were building at the time of your term, where the door was shorter, 10 cm shorter, where there were no installations, parking lots, tiles, where did this material end? You never answered that four years ago, you were accused by Croatian defenders, wartime military invalids, they asked you where the parks are, where those sphinxes, where those installations are, where that door, where that bush is, you never answered that. And you won't because you probably didn't even control the situation, so we can amnesty you, but you had political responsibility. Now you tell me, because you say this and you ask the question, it's suspected, it's said, it's said, it's said, it's said, it's said, it's not going to work, it's not going to happen, it's up to 90, we have democracy, we have the trio of the authorities, we have the organs, the relevant bodies that will determine it, and surely it won't be determined by the political party whose member you are, or by any other political party, so I understand your struggle to vote for a place on the list within your party, but I think you're on the wrong path, I'm not sure if I were the president of your party that I would put you on the list.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94654	Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94655	My dear President, Tudjman didn't appreciate you and we can see why, but I kind of like you in a strange way, you have if you have anything other than a ghost, even when you're falling apart by saying you and my God, someone else will. But when it's said I'm not an expert on road construction, I'm an expert as a minister who's agronomic, or you're a poet. But I'm some kind of politician, so I know something about political marketing, here's a free tip for your logo, a trademark you need to take this, an octopus as a symbol of all the corruption in which Croatia fails thanks to you and your government. One leg is corruption in road construction, but all tentacles are in some other segments of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94656	Thank you very much. Put this octopus on.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94657	Mr. President of the Parliament three years ago, you were waving listening devices...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94658	An octopus nice...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94659	And now you have a problem with the toy, and seven years ago, you've been clinking guns in the square, and this is just a toy, so you're afraid of a regular toy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94660	It's over. Thank you very much. Representative Marin Jurjevic, come in. Keep it to yourself, it'll be useful. Put her on a corpse.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94661	Can I, Mr. President? Thank you. It's a question for the Prime Minister. About a year and a half ago, I started to ask about the Brodosplit affair, I didn't get the right answer, it was mostly lunches and empty words, but that's why a happy group from the Split Smuggling is quite active, so she's writing punches and private lawsuits and sending criminal charges to the state's attorney's office, among other things against my smallness, where she accuses me of disturbing Croatian public. So since you are part of the Croatian public too, I ask you if I have upset you with my questions, secondly, whether you may have been upset by the European Commission with this finding of corruption where the smuggling is listed as some... paper on which to measure what is going to happen further and where one prominent member is talking about that as regards corruption Croatia has fallen below the level of some African countries, did the news upset you that Wessels, who got a job in the boot, knows Mr. Vukelić, sold all four ships in the meantime, one day and two last and two of them sold... That's the Swedish company that gave them much better terms but the Supervisory Board wouldn't give them a job. Is the news bothering you that, apart from one phone session, when two members of the board of directors were removed had only one session in Zagreb, no new administration was elected, the losses piled up even though it was a great job from the summit, we heard it here from Mr. Minister, whether it bothers you, I don't want to interfere with the court, but one delaying the court in Split to respond to the request of the chief state attorney to block the property of Mr. Draga Maček, there is no answer. Whether you are disturbed by the findings of Mr Vukelic, which he made in one renowned weekly of Croatia, I quote that there has been a crime of individuals in Brodosplit. So, my question is, does any of that bother you?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94662	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader, about the harassment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94663	Now, while you were asking this question, and while Mr. Pancic, called an octopus, was asking his questions, there was one news that said: And this is what they heard and will confirm all the media in Croatia, Mr. Jurjevic. Croatia is less corrupt than last year with the highest score of 4.1, the highest score in the last 10 years, according to the corruption perception index for 2007. So many answers to you and Pancic. But there's something I'm really worried about, and you're asking me if you're worried. Yeah, I'm worried now I'm gonna say why. I'm concerned that even after the first question, which you had absolutely the right to ask after my reply to you, you continue to persist in one, which is that the Government, and the executive authority must also be a rehearsal, a judgmental, repressive one. That's not true, and I can't accept it. You can't ask me, Mr. Representative, what the court is doing. You can ask that of the judicial authorities, but not the president of the executive government. The time when it was all in one party, one committee is behind us. When you spoke and who was guilty and when you said who was the suspect and when you judged him. That time is irrevocable for us. Bye. Well, well, well. There's no more of that time. You must ask your question to those who are in the judicial authority or the state's attorney's office who are a body under the Constitution independent of all three pillars of power, not the Prime Minister. I'm worried about that. I'm worried that after a year and a half of our public dialogue, and we're both from Split and the circus is at our heart, and you and me, that you need to ask the judiciary, that you're asking the State's Attorney's office a question to ask the Prime Minister. For what reason? For the reason you try to make a political point. It is clear to me, and you have the right to do so, but you will not deny me the right to warn the public that MP Jurjevic is using the representative benches and the current question and the current clock to point where he doesn't belong, because questions from the judiciary and other similar structures are not for the Prime Minister or any minister, and that is so in democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94664	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94665	I know poets are strange in the world what A.B. would say. Simic, but there's really no end to the surprise here. Minister Vukelic is head of the teaching board of Shkver who approved all of this, which is surprising, which I say was a crime there. You're surprised I'm asking if you're upset with the state of justice. That's what I'm asking you. So you must be upset when Europe tells you that we fell under Africa. You came to power. Mr. Prime Minister, give discipline to your classmates, I can't speak. President-in-Office, I'm asking you to secure order.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94666	You guys are so temperamental, just keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94667	... I beg you all to hear me. [[Specially enabled.]] So when you came to power, you said, you promised the citizens, the people, I'd bring you into Europe. We see we've arrived in Africa. Now I'm surprised, or you don't know the geography, or you cheated on the people, or you cheated on the people. The smart ones will know the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94668	Now there are surprises, commentary is a surprise. Representative Milanka Opacic has raised the question. Representative Antun Kapraljevic. He's gone. The other MPs withdrew their question. And the last question is MP Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94669	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm asking you a question as far as the premise of your innocence, truthfulness, justice, honesty and all kinds of concerns for the people of this country are concerned. So, starting with that, you're convinced that if you tell the truth sometimes, the truth is shown solely because you're misinformed or under-informed. Once again today as often as before in public, you are telling the truth. The truth about your government being the first to recognize the problem of a pensioner's debt and that it's the only one who pays back. Mr. Prime Minister, things are a little different. Imagine the 250 thousand pensioners in Croatia who heard you a little while and who received the calculation that was sent in the term of your government, which says that they are returning 0,00 kuna. Two hundred and fifty thousand people because they were given back 50, 60, or I don't know how many thousands of kunas, in what term. Or the other notice I have here says you've been returned by law brought by the former government 35 thousand kuna, and we'll pay you back seven thousand kuna from which half of which you can get 3 and a half thousand if you want within two years. So my question is whether you're saying it really is because no one told you, no one has informed you or caused anything else. I do not want to believe that you would knowingly deceive the citizens of this country because these pensioners know very well how much they have received from the return of this and that government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94670	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94671	Mr. Representative, I know that you tried this problem in some way to jump in and I don't want to deny it. And you as a minister, and that's what I want to say here too, I want to return the compliment, and you as a minister have tried and you wanted to solve this problem, but you were just principles and that's what's true. In your time, during your term of office, the problem has arisen, new pensioners and the information we have from our partners, and we can check them in front of the Croatian public, some have been overpaid, some have not been returned. So there was no system in that attempt of yours. So, I don't want to deny the attempt and personally as a minister in the former government that you tried to start solving, start solving that problem. But 14 billion kunas we found to repay the debt of that main debt, the great, the biggest, the chief, however you will we find and solve together with our partners the Croatian Party of Retirement and others who supported our proposal. So when we say that we've solved this debt and this great trauma then it's true, but it doesn't exclude your efforts and you personally as a minister, and there I want to tell you that that's how it was for your government to try and solve this problem. But you haven't solved it, and that's true. We got him. And that's right. So if I've been able to clear up our positions somewhere now, I think that's the closest thing you and I can stand behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94672	Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94673	Anyway, at least it's good to say, because that's not what's been said so far, so I intervene on the false. Not to the fact that your government is paying back the debt. I haven't challenged anyone for a moment. But the data suggests that most of Mr. Prime Minister, that's what Minister Polancec can show you. Most of this debt according to HPB Invest's notifications returned most of it. So the ratio is somewhere 2/3 to 1/3. That's the first one. And secondly, Mr. Prime Minister, the problem of debt, the problem of new pensioners was in '99. 1.1.99. the new pensioners appeared as new pensioners under the new system. There was no government at the time. The problem was escalated when we really increased pensions to foreign pensioners because they would have had such low pensions because we were paying back as an increased pension from month to month and not once to spend and there was nothing left behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94674	Ladies and gentlemen, the current morning is over. Resume session is at 3:30. The session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports will be held tomorrow at 13.15 in the hall "Stepan Radic" as the Committee president said. Ladies and gentlemen! We're continuing the session. It's on the agenda. Proposal for a law confirming the loan framework agreement: F/P 1576 (2006) W between the Council of Europe Development Bank and the Republic of Croatia for a project to finance health institutions in the Republic of Croatia, with a final draft law, emergency procedure - first and second reading, P.Z. No. 746 Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget. Does the Secretary of State want to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. The committee's reporters? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94678	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, you six parliamentary deputies, with me seven, eight now, already here, goes for the better and Mr. Shakespeare the ninth. ... We're making more and more progress. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But here's a very short one, but let me just say it. IDS will not vote for this contract. We'll be restrained. And now, normally, eight or nine MPs ask themselves, and why? Because here's what I'm reading, Mr. Secretary of State, is that one of the most important marginalization of Istria is at work. Those most participated in the state budget per capita are in some way the most deprived. For me, when I read this contract no matter what this international element has, there's an outrageous insolence in action where the government is one that I don't insult anyone, in a strange way. You see, this contract weighs $655.3 million. This should be clearly added to 144.1 million kuna for VAT. It's a total of 800 million kuna. And now the question is, how much of that money is going to the General Hospital in Pula? For Pula General Hospital, there goes exactly zero kuna. It's true, until '47. Istria was formally the Kingdom of Italy. Indeed, the merits of Titus's partisans were part of Croatia, Slovenia. But per capita, not a single space of the Republic of Croatia since the 1990s. To this day, the state budget has no more than Istrian. And now I'm asking myself, why is this space kind of being cut off, financially bypassing? The truth is, there was nothing different during the Third - century government. But what am I saying? The General Hospital problem in Pula cannot be handled by the County of Istria. The County of Istria has a budget somewhere around 210 million kuna. The General Hospital has annual expenditures of over 180 million kuna. With this contract, these 800 million kunas are going to the hospital in Vukovar, I don't mind. He's going to a hospital in Lipik. I don't mind. But it also goes to Split, for Zagreb's "Mercur", a tumor hospital in Zagreb, for the Zadar General Hospital and for the Clinical Hospital in Osijek. I know everybody needs it. But there are others who need it. For "Mercur" is, for example, for a tumor hospital, I understand why these money goes there. Well, our colleagues are Dr. Hebrang, Dr. Turic. I also understand why he's going to Zadar. Why is he going to Split? So it's Mr. Sanader, the Prime Minister. Because of Minister Calmeta. I know why he's going to Osijek. It's Mr. Shakespeare. But Croatia is not only Croatia where HDZ is. It is already Croatia and Istria and Varazdin and Međimurje and not to list everything else now. Let's get this straight. I don't think there's anyone here against the hospital in Zadar, no one against the hospital in Osijek, no one against Mercury, no one against the tumor hospital. In fact, we never know where we can go in life or when we end up. But it offends me, for example, that Mr. Kalmeta, in his four years in one of Zadar, has withdrawn a billion euros. I'm sure a billion euros. Brother, brother, come on. With that road down, with the bow and so on. All that's necessary. I agree. But on the other hand, I see that in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, Istria is represented as being in '37. Not in 2007. That's what insults me. And that's why we're not gonna raise our hand to this contract, and that's why we're gonna be held back. Clearly, I don't expect much from this authority. I certainly don't hope much of the future. But that's why I want this country to be decentralized and helped, and that without helping anyone on its own, we can have our own. Here, that's what I was gonna say. And indeed, it's 800 million kuna. The problems in general hospitals throughout Croatia are not only about Pula, but also about one Varazdin, as well as in Sibenik, equally worse in Slavonski Brod or Čakovec, and yet these hospitals unfortunately get nothing, but they go strictly towards those centres where someone would say, someone has a godfather in Croatian executive authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94679	Eh, godmother of one, godfather of the other, godfather of the third. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94680	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd like to say a few words without passing this important bill for important projects. A colleague said exactly that this was going to be a hospital renovation in Vukovar, and we know that the hospital in Vukovar was completely neglected from 2000 to 2003. Many of the projects that had been launched have been stopped. And it's good to have that hospital restored to the end, because that hospital is of special importance, we could say the hospital monument. I'm sure it's a significant asset, but as I say, it's important projects. We see, if we see here the purpose of this law is to achieve with it. I see that the objectives are well justified from increasing the availability of health services to reducing waiting lists and reducing mortality rates from cardiovascular diseases and diseases, malignancies. Because we see that of the ten leading causes of death in the first place are ischemic heart disease, cerebral disease, heart failure, and then there's the ominous neoplasms. Therefore, I think the objectives for spending these funds are well-designed. I couldn't say that the funds are being spent on someone's privileges because I remember, for sure, that both the hospital and everything that other hospitals need is the hospital in Pula, it has no doubt but it may be misunderstood that the hospital lives if the hospital has such a budget that it's a burden on the county. The hospital has its monthly tranche that should be for normal functioning of the hospital. Therefore, it should be as burdensome as any other environment. When it comes to these projects, it means to prevent malignancies or anything in these preventions, it is equally accessible to all environments, as well as to the listed ones, and I think it has really achieved a great deal. The program is already being implemented by the "mamma" program, which gives good results. The next programme is the same early detection of malignant diseases of the digestive tract or colon, etc. And I am extremely happy to say that here a few months ago we were unimaginable that our patient, say, from the vicinity of the parish in this area could in three now have an intervention cardiovascular as we could just listen to it in Zagreb. Therefore, much has been done with these means that are certainly significant and will be done far more and therefore I support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94681	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the items of the agenda: Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of a loan framework agreement between the Council of Europe Development Bank for a health institution financing project. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 106 votes for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94686	Dear Mr. President, distinguished ministry gentlemen, respected colleagues and colleagues. I would be very pleased that it is only this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of additional costs of the Rijeka Transport Direction Reconstruction Project. But looking at the globally that there will also be another guarantee contract later on, it is a new port of Zadar, so when I compare the amounts then I see that perhaps the Rijeka traffic route is far worse in position than the new port of Zadar. What's this about? Rijeka traffic route 35m euros and Zadar new port 100m euros. You could say, "All roads lead to Zadar.". How much trouble there is in the Rijeka traffic direction not only as regards the port but also others, roads which are in construction such as the D404 road and the fact that this road should have been completed at the end of this year and there will be a delay in construction until 2009 and that because two state-owned companies cannot agree in vain on compensation for the crossing of the road D404 through the Delta and Brajdice area and can put this all together in the Guinness Book of Records because Croatian roads and Croatian railways cannot agree on the compensation of two buildings that should be crashed by the Croatian Railways and that the road could be further built. About our bypass of the river, which has become practically part of the city road, we have the traffic of 40,000 vehicles a day and remember that a little more than a year ago we gave consent to the borrowing to build a Split bypass that should be in 2020 and a projection was made for 2020 and we agreed to a traffic projection to build a bypass. So I'm really wondering if we need some other parameters and other criteria you've considered because unlike Split, I can also give you an example of a 30-year tax pass and which, the town of Poreč, which contributes 15% of the overnight stays in the Republic of Croatia somewhere around 700 million dollars in the budget and is also waiting for a 30-year roundabout. I think our little priorities have gone wrong and I really don't mind that all the cities in Croatia are developing but it's just that some people are given everything and some are just crumbs, I don't think that's good. If we want to properly decentralize the country and develop the country, then it certainly isn't this way. Maybe if we want to, we can do it on the highway. We know that the vessel of the housewives, our highway, call the river-Zagreb highway, is actually half a highway that is 40 km long, is not a highway, but we know it's half a highway, and it's paid as if it's a highway. Also in Istria, there is not a single kilometer of highway, and for the Učka tunnel is paid 28 kuna, and for the viaduct via quiet, and I have not heard that there is no pay in Croatia viaducts paid 14 kuna. So there's some kind of relationship in the wrong direction. At the very least, I think that we should treat all the ends of Croatia in the same way, and that this is the only way that Croatia can develop in the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94687	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Cain, continuing the presentation of IDS's Club of Representatives. Gentleman turned out to be a gentleman, Damir.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94688	Always. The truth, President,... what you noticed, but I didn't know that to that extent you were following the controversy between the MPs and the former MPs as you were, in some way, involved in this relationship between me and Miss Petyr. There, however, I look forward to it, and I look forward to being honest with every investment in the 8th constituency. As much as this rent, as much as this 35.3m-euro loan, that means the $50m circus, clearly the IDS must support, is an upgrade as Mrs Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac, the Zagreb terminal said. At that amount of 35.3m euros, the government will add 4.8m euros, which is still about 40m kuna, and should be welcomed. In this term, Rijeka finished the road from Rijeka to Rupa, near the end of the highway from Rijeka to Zagreb, it is being built, we must admit, it was attacked de facto every meter of that route. A road has been built from Rijeka to Bakr, some 600 million kunas seem to me that 12km section, and there is another dispute there at the port itself. It's caperated, so-called. Rijeka bypass, agreed, i.e. The construction of a railway line from Rijeka to Zagreb, which we otherwise call the Netherlands railway, has been arranged, etc. I IDS clearly supports it all. IDS is as much as we could hire around Lenco and I claim that I am better directed, higher than many in Rijeka who rule there and around Libya, and around the Adriatic Crikvenica that has no rescue, and around the shipyard in Rijeka, but looking at all governments so far, those who view Croatia as Croatia until Učka, at least when it comes to Istria. I cannot understand the fact that 8 billion kuna, or 9, is allocated to the Dutch railway from Rijeka to Zagreb, and that investors or the government are more accurately forgetting about the tunnel through Učka. The tunnel needs Istria but I say it is more necessary at this time and Rijeka port and Zagreb. Why? Germany's "Deutsche Bahn" the world's largest transport company takes over the Slovenian railways or Koper port and if Croatia does not trade, and traffic in Rijeka port will be much less. The tunnel Učka, I argue, is not a project for Istria alone, at least "for Istria" but is the primary project for Rijeka Luka, or for Zagreb, in one word for the Croatian railways, and Zagreb should literally become the leading regional railway centre in that part of Europe, because the track through Učka would also draw a good portion of the burden for northern Italy and France and that part of Spain to Barcelona which is normally transported through Slovenia continues to go to Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovenia, Poland and not to list other countries. As much as we insist on this tunnel at this time, but I also want to say that, regardless of what Istria many misperceptive, Istria is not just a tourist destination, it is a dominant industrial destination. The biggest economic investment in tourism, in the industry,... are in Istria today, exports are twice as high as in the coastal-goran county, the large system has been rescheduled. In the gross-society product per capital of the Istrian County, the Istrian industry is in the first place with almost 38% it is a unique case in Croatia. Tourism is only in third place with 10%, but why am I saying all this, because we want to reactivate the port of Brčica, not far from Labin and it is not possible without a tunnel through Učka, and why I am now talking about the tunnel or the Brčica, because Brčica is part of the so-called "Brčica". Rijeka traffic because Brčica is part of the Rijeka port. All the money from that 40.1 million euros, it's cca 300 million kuna, it goes to Rijeka, and Brcic doesn't get a single kuna at this time. Such a motherly relationship by the owner of the Rijeka port to Brčica, or to Istria, really offends. I repeat, and this time we are 100% clear on this loan but it offends that in Istria on this basis or something like this, the best thing to do is to pull out a parallel with the arrangement of the Zadar port again is not a single lip. Maybe sometimes being cynical isn't bad, why? Because it makes you do something for yourself, not to wait for the help of the government, but what the people would say is too much is too much. I don't know, the government of Poreč gives up 24 acres of land and tells you it's for the hall, it's for the bypass, it's for the pool, it's for the school, and don't ask us anything, and once Zagreb, Split, Osijek or Varazda will be participated with 50% of the price in building their halls, which are really rudely expensive, 700, 800, billion kuna, I don't know how many, and in Poreč, it will cost a maximum of 80 million kuna. So I ask myself, who in this country draws funds from the state budget in one way. Why I said that sometimes it's not bad that all the burden stays on you because of these examples, because you really have to run and do something yourself, and then it's the easiest thing to capitalize later on. But once again, I'm going to repeat what's too much, it's too much. The interest of the state is like standing at the borders of Učka, the County of Istrian. But when it comes to withdrawing funds into the state budget, then it's most effective in these Istrian areas. And as much as I do say one more time, I think it would be opportunized if some other such loan or some other such loan was made by someone in the government or the competent ministry to remember Istria as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94689	Thank you. The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94690	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I can't at first not look back at what my colleagues at the IDS Club said. However, unlike them, I will point out at the outset that the government has invested most of all governments so far in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and many projects that have not been completed could have been realised long ago that some of the previous governments have at least made the effort to prepare project documentation. But here I will concentrate on what is the point of this agenda, in my presentation on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, which is the point of this agenda, and this is the law on, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the additional cost of the river traffic reconstruction project with the final draft law. The law lays down the Loan Guarantee Treaty agreed by the Loan Treaty between ABR and Rijeka Port Administration to finance additional costs of river transport reconstruction projects. The total additional costs of the river route reconstruction project related to the excess of the costs of building the main port component of the Zagreb terminal and the lack of financial resources for technical services in preparation, the concession modes at the Zagreb terminal were estimated at around 40m euros. ABR will co-finance additional project costs of 35.3m euros, with the rest of 4.8m euros secured in the state budget in line with the electoral commitment of the Republic of Croatia. Under the conditions offered by the ABR-da Port Authority of Rijeka, the loan will be granted for 13 years with a start of 4 years. Loan funds will be available for use as soon as the Guarantee Treaty enters into force and the use of credit funds is foreseen until 31 December 2010. Following the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Guarantee Treaty for Rijeka... The project between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Port Authority of Rijeka, signed a loan agreement with ABR-D. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most important object of the river road reconstruction project is the construction of a new Zagreb port. The total length of the port will be 600 metres from which 300 m will be built in the first phase. Due to the depth of the sea, the new port of Zagreb will allow the reception of ships of all sizes. The contract for designing the Zagreb port was signed on 22 April 2003 with the Japanese consaltin company Nippo key from Tokyo. The building permit was issued on August 25th 2005, and the addition of a building permit for an optimized type of port construction was made on July 14th 2006. In order to implement this most complex construction part of the project according to the signed loan agreement, and according to the procedure of international public competition for works with pre-qualification, a Japanese company, Kaiima Corporation, was selected to sign a construction contract on 24 November 2005. In the period from 1957 to 1986, a number of research works were carried out on the basis of which, in 2000, a component of an idea project for the establishment of a location permit was built a geo technical elaborat. At the request of a review of the main project, the Port Authority of Rijeka conducted control tests on the seabed on the sub-sea part of the future port of Zagreb during 2006. The expert reports and analyses made by the Geotechnik Consulting Group in London have shown that the seabed at the space of the future port of Zagreb is covered with a very soft sea sediment and a poorly bearing clay layer, and that there is a need for significant additional investment in the stabilisation of the seabed in order to achieve a demanding load load load of the coast. Due to the rapid growth of container transport, a new Zagreb port is planned to be built as a container terminal. Such re-use from multi-purpose to container terminals initiated by potential concessionaires primarily produced the need to strengthen structural elements as well as re-check the stability and descent of coastal structures. The improvement of the seabed due to the state of investigation as well as the increased loads due to the re-use of the container terminal should be carried out prior to the start of work on the basic coastal dikes. Implementation of the guarantee contract other than the potential financial obligation to repay loans in the capacity of the guarantee in the amount of the total loan, interest and other costs incurred under the loan agreement to provide additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in order to ensure the successful implementation of the project. To this end, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development will plan an amount equivalent to 4.8 billion euros over the years during the implementation of the project as part of its budget division. Because of the extraordinary importance of Rijeka... The project not only for the city of Rijeka, but for the Republic of Croatia and beyond, it is important that this project is implemented as soon as possible and this proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of additional costs of river transport reconstruction projects confirms the concern of this Government for Rijeka as our largest and most significant port. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm going to repeat one more time what I said at the very beginning. This government has invested most of all of the governments so far in the Primorje-Goran County and the City of Rijeka, so that by building a flatline track and ending the construction of a full profile of the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, it will create conditions for full use of the Rijeka port capacity. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94691	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to finance additional costs of the river route reconstruction project. For? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 102 for and 1 abstention. With most of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94696	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is one of the laws before you, which further harmonizes our legislation with the acquis of the European Union. Of course, the area of commercial law and of companies such as the company of shares, i.e. the economic interest association, is not unknown in our legal system. They have existed in our system for 10 years, more precisely since 1995, when the Law on Commercial Society entered into force. Thus, this area is systematically regulated not only by this law but is subject to some other laws such as the Securities Market Act, the Company Act, and certain laws relating to economic operations such as the Bank Act, the Insurance Act, etc. However, very live economic traffic, and thus the interesting integration of entities from various countries already among the Member States of the European Union has in fact shown the need to deal with the issue of legal persons that are thus interconnecting with interest. This was done by two regulations, a regulation on the Statute of the European Society of Socatas Europe and a Regulation establishing an actual European Economic Interest Association. ... is a matter of regulations which otherwise apply directly to the regulations of the European Union, these two Regulations are not possible, neither country could do so and directly apply to its legislation because, as a result of the specificity of the legislation in all Member States of the European Union, the regulation is now called for to be applied, the appropriate application of national legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, all countries, so they must do so and Croatia should adopt the implementing rules, the law to fully implement these two regulations in their legal system. So regulations are now, in fact, regulated by these laws as to how the regulation can be applied in each of these countries. This, in particular, appears to be the proposed text of the law when it comes to our legal system. We have opted for an approach not to integrate this, these two actually legal entities, a new legal entity as a European company and a European economic interest society through the Law on Commercial Society, because we have assessed that this would actually violate the structure of this law and it would not be good and would actually ensure a simpler application. That is why we considered it necessary to pass a special law, this law proposed as a text of the final draft law in order to allow these two regulations to be implemented in our legal system so that entities from the Member States of the European Union, but also our entities, through the application of these Regulations, continue to be actively linked through this law and the specific application of these two regulations. That is why the law actually has two basic segments, segments that determine how supervision, merger and criminal provisions are established in breach of these provisions, both the European stock society and the European Economic Interest Association. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are here in short and important terms on this text of the law. This legislation proposed the text of the law of two amendments which are of nootechnic nature, so that the Government would accept them as a proposal. And of course they will participate in the editorial work of the text so that these regulations, which are contained in them and foreigners, are applied as best as possible through the law and the text and its legislative regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94697	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94698	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. In fact, this bill opened a very interesting constitutional issue with us. In our country, according to our Constitution, Article 5 provides for the principle of constitutionality and legality, which reads as follows: "In the Republic of Croatia the laws must be in accordance with the Constitution and the other regulations with the Constitution and with the law. And everyone is obliged to observe the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia." In addition, there is another constitutional norm when it comes to international agreements, in Article 140, which states that international agreements concluded and confirmed in accordance with the Constitution and published, which are in force part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, which are above the law. And that's all the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is talking about. Here is now the first situation in which the Republic of Croatia must have a harmonised Constitution, a law with the regulation of Europe, the European Union. And note bene has an additional situation in this law that, if something in this law is opposed to the regulation of the European Union, a regulation of the European Union will apply directly. As far as I am aware, and as far as this proposal for the text of the law is concerned, this Regulation has never been ratified or has become an integral part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, what is extremely important is that, in order to be more precise, the full set of provisions, regulations that will be applied directly in the Republic of Croatia, are listed in the explanation of the compliance of this law with the regulation at the same time, without any legal act being an integral part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This, of course, seems to lead to contradictions regarding the Stabilisation and Association Agreement under which we have accepted the obligation to comply with the acquis of the European Union entered into by this Regulation, but only at first sight. If we are to comply with our legislation in that segment, with that property that makes up this Regulation, then we must comply with all the provisions of that Regulation, or we must take over this regulation that it will apply, so there must be a special provision in the law and give the proper force, and not if it contradicts the regulation then a direct regulation will apply and there will be nothing to that effect. That's the first question that's very interesting and that we have to keep in mind. The second question is, in fact, the question of the compliance of this law with the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and the fact that, from the aspect of the Law on Commercial Society and from the aspect of the Law on the takeover of commercial societies. First of all, from the point of view of the Trade Society Act, there is something different about the transfer of the seat than this regulation says. Secondly, from the point of view of the acquisition of a company, if a shareholder, and in this case for severances, is talking about compensation, this is for the first time a reasonable fee or a market fee, and the European practice is that, on average, this appropriate fee is paid at approximately the average price of the last three months on the stock market, which is generally always higher than the price of the company's acquisition. Now a question arises in whose interest this law is actually passed. Whether in the interest of small shareholders, our shareholders or multinationals, or large houses that will appear companies that will appear in this space. The third question is how to harmonise it and what law will apply at first sight that third question. In fact, in the event of a conflict with domestic legislation, this law or regulation is in force, and in this respect, we are, for the first time, getting something different to explain the text of the law. There was no problem with the commercial law that has a thousand and I don't know 100 and some articles, bringing in another 50 articles and bringing in a series of companies regulated by that law and these two companies. Nothing would have happened and that law wouldn't have been as impenetrable as it was trying to say. However, the problem would be that this would have to comply with that law and all the provisions of the regulation to comply with that law. Another problem, behind this, is that such solutions related to the implementation of the regulations that need to be provided by these interested associations in the Republic of Croatia would practically not be possible. Of course, there is no need to pass two laws, since two different cases are involved, there is also no justification, because if it was possible to pass this law in addition to the Law on Commercial Companies and the Act on the Taking over of Commercial Companies, so why it would not be possible to adopt two, each for a regulation. However, what I'm saying is, I want to point out the fact that behind this is actually the intention and raising the interest of large-scale capital in relation to economic-interesting associations that need to be regulated by this law. The second thing they would like to say is the fact that, for us in the SDP Club, there is no doubt that we need to comply with these regulations of our legislation, but also those regulations must become an integral part of our legal order and cannot stand either in the reasoning nor in the text of the law, I quote: "These societies will primarily be subject to the relevant European regulations" and then this law on commercial societies and other regulations, etc. It's not working, it's hard to accept it if we haven't accepted the regulation as an integral part of our legal order at the same time. Of course, the matter of urgency, since the law will apply from the date of Croatia's accession to the European Union and can be brought into question. However, because of the negotiation process if it is said that we will agree with these regulations to our legislation by January 2008, we have no objection to this going into procedure. But not like this. Not like this. And the last thing we want in particular to point out, we want to highlight a few things concerning the fact that is very important in the Republic of Croatia. By virtue of this Regulation, according to its reputation as U.S. legislation relating to companies and the special world, they are in fact opening up further liberalisation on corporate takeover and joint participation through interested associations that do appear on their own behalf but cannot make a special profit, but company members are making a special profit on the market. But you know, it goes one step at a time. In the American system, you have such situations that management, if it has 40% and more stakes, can take over society in a way that only informs other shareholders of the acquisition of shares if it is small shareholders. What's important to us, is the fact that we have somewhat developed a small stockholdership and that in recent moves related to privatising part of THT or part of Ina yesterday, we're actually expanding it. But these individuals, the bearers of those shares will have such a small percentage that actually big systems will be able to, when they want to, either by calling or by the law on the takeover of companies or by the law of the one that we're now making, actually own those same shareholders from their shares and so that if they don't accept the record of opposition to the transfer of such a seat here, they will pay them the appropriate fee, and by the Act of takeover, in a way that they will only give them the corresponding fee that is actually estimated. In such a situation, we will put ourselves in a position that practically our small shareholders, which are mahogany workers or former workers of our pensioners, come into a completely unfavourable position, and we must, if we are to go to coordinate this part, clearly determine in which segment is the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the development of small shareholders and how it should be protected. It is also similar to that of Article 13 where it is said that the decision of the main assembly on the transfer of the seat of the company cannot be refuted because the tender for payment of the severance in cash is not appropriate or that, in the plan for the transfer of the seat in the report and the transfer, etc. or audits of the supervisory examination carried out, the committee carried out an examination of the date of explanation of the offer of salaries, the severances are not in accordance with the law. So explain my people to me. You can't refute unless it's an appropriate severance policy for you that he has to give and you can't even do it if that argument doesn't comply with the law. So how did you comply with the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and with the Constitution of such a provision? The same is true of calling on the congregation. I will quote only Article 6(1), which states that the second sentence has the right and the shareholder who did not participate in the main assembly because he was unlawfully prevented or the main assembly was not properly called or the subject of the decision was not properly published. Therefore, this shareholder has the right to claim severance, and the only question I ask is whether such a assembly that has been illegally convened could have made a decision on changing its seat, whether or not the criteria for the administration’s or activities are applied. So, apparently, some things here are still dragging in that direction to open up a large space for taking over a large part of the share capital and stock values in the Republic of Croatia through this Act, not the laws on commercial societies, which would practically lead to our small shareholders being further announced. I would prefer to point out the final remark, that the provisions to which it is called upon to apply them directly from these Regulations better protect the position of small and other shareholders than this protects this Law, but we will not be able to apply those provisions directly, not only because we are not a full member, but before we become a full member of that regulation or that regulation, we must take them as our own and turn them into internal legislation until they are not yet. That is why we, from the SDP Representatives Club, firstly propose that whatever the law is proposed to comply with the European Union, bear the label P.Z.E. to remove the emergency procedure and to carry out the first reading, and if we cannot find such a solution that would enable these serious issues to be enlightened, not related to party policy, but to protect the national interest of the Republic of Croatia, then unfortunately we will not be able to support this law in an urgent procedure, regardless of what is possible in the agreement of all of us in Parliament, parliamentary parties that we will work together to bring our legislation into line with the European Union and we will work quickly to get closer to each other. But in such a business, we must certainly not ignore the interests of our people and our country, and we must keep in mind as much as it is important for us to be members of the European Union quickly and it is equally important and how and how we will enter that European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94699	Thank you. State Secretary Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94700	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me refer to the comments made to this text of the Law, which relate to its unconstitution and its contents, or to the question of whether it pleases certain stakeholders. So, there's a question of unconstitution... Article 140 provides that the international agreements concluded under the Constitution are part of the internal order, but are legally above the law, but not the Constitution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must point out that this is about the regulations of the Council of the European Commission, i.e. the European Union, which are directly applicable as acts of legal legislation of the European Union in the laws of the countries. So this isn't about international contracts and they don't need to be ratified. On the other hand, that there was a need for the harmonisation of the Constitution and that no provisions, regulations, through this Law, or the combination of these regulations with our internal legislation, the adoption of a special law, could be incorporated through this Law without amending the Constitution, because we could not or could not propose the law. There will be some issues in the negotiation process that may require changes to the Constitution, but that is not the issue. Finally, as regulations cannot otherwise be applied directly in our legal system because we are not yet a Member State of the European Union, this law will enter into force when the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union and this is clearly stated in Article 47. Therefore, this Law will enter into force and will not apply until the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union and then this Regulation and this Law where they are tied together will apply. The difference between Croatia and some other countries is certainly part of the talks and negotiations because earlier countries have, I have already said differently in the introduction of issues on how to incriminate those regulations. As part of the Aquis acquis relating to commercial law, the Regulations must be incorporated into any country wishing to become a member of the European Union, and that must be done as soon as it becomes a member. We are doing so a little earlier, with the law in force already said when we become a full member of the European Union, we are doing so before because in the negotiation process we have assessed through the negotiation procedures and this chapter of the right of companies that, given our situations, we can do so in this way already through this law, with the delay of its entry into force. Why are we making this a special law? If the government had wanted to hide something and wanted to make it easier for her to pass any law we could have... The law on trade societies, but precisely because of transparency, because we introduce two completely new companies, we do so by this special law as a single paper that continues on our commercial rights and on our stock companies, but it is still a newspaper. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, who do we take advantage of? It doesn't suit anyone in particular. It shall be granted to commercial entities that operate and are eligible for their opportunities, although in the interconnection and within Europe through the integration of commercial entities they shall establish if such a form of companies which must be entered into our register and there are specificities through which it is prescribed. So we don't have a good guess especially on some big capital. If there are no large companies or companies interested in this or if there is no interest in permanent capital in Croatia... societies will not even be established, but there is no point in saying that if there is no recognition of their needs and interests, someone would particularly benefit from it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that, with respect to everything that has been said on behalf of the SDP Club, this law is in no way in accordance with the Constitution, but it is actually one step away from us because we have already developed our commercial right and in our legal system, we adopt this law, and as we wait for us to become a full member, we allow the subjects to get to know this new legislation not only here, but especially in economic business so that when the law enters into force, they can assess whether they want to apply its provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94701	Thank you. I'm finishing... What? Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94702	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm actually using this individual debate among other things and reacting to the State Secretary's explanation. Namely, the first fact is that our Company Act knows an economic interest society. Second. Such a corrupt provision has been taken over from German legislation in our Commercial Society Act. Third. There is plenty of space in German legislation to apply this Regulation to the Council of the European Community. Fourth. The legislator himself writes, quotes: "But direct application is not possible if in national law it is not regulated to... The regulations apply the rules on national stock companies and the national economic interest of the association in the countries that have it." And at the same time, in the light of the law, we speak, will apply directly, will be applied directly, will be applied directly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look at the contributions to this bill. Therefore, a direct regulation which is not an integral part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia will apply. Fourth. The Republic of Croatia must sign the Accession Treaty after its entry into the European Union. It is important that we sign this accession agreement and this regulation to become an integral part or not. That's what we'll see when we become a full member. And a fifth. It is clear from everything that it is difficult to pass a law that requires that a regulation be applied in the Republic of Croatia which has not yet been published and let alone is not available to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, let alone to become in accordance with the Constitution, because we could not take it in a different way because it is a regulation, it is not an international contract referred to in Article 140, which I was talking about. And for this reason, I suggest that this issue still opens up a slightly different streamlining of relationship with an association of interest rather than what it does and gives boredom to the Law on Commercial Companies in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94703	The secretary of state will comment on that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94704	Excuse me. I just wanted to repeat further that all the regulations to be adopted as binding law of the Member State have direct application in the Member States. This is such a part of the legal regulatory Member States of the European Union. Thus, some countries sometimes apply directly. On the one hand, I also made it clear here that we will not apply this regulation at this time. We won't even apply the law we're making... the observations of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law clearly states in Article 47 on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. Thus, the law clearly states in the article on the date of entry. When the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member, then all the regulations, not only of which we are now talking about, but of all the regulations that are part of the legal property of the European Union, will apply directly in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94705	The correction incorrectly alleged a respected representative, Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94706	Mr. President, Secretary of State! I'm afraid I must disappoint you. We will not apply all the regulations when we become a full member, so we are conducting negotiations. And that is why we will get for certain areas, we hope, the transitional periods for which we need to ensure that the Croatian economy is treated and adapted, the Croatian relations. And we won't use them in that segment. And we are committed in advance by this law that when we become a member, we will apply this regulation as an integral part of the internal legal order and we cannot further negotiate that we may also have a transitional period. That's a question that raises the question of guessing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94707	I'm closing the debate. The final draft law on the introduction of the European Society of Socatas Europe and the European Economic Interest Association. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The amendments proposed by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the applicant. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? 101 for it. I've seen two abstentions. Which one? [[/Intruder: Three.]] Three abstentions, adopted by the Law in the text as proposed by the Proposer. [[Intruder: I Rosic, three.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94712	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, allow a few words because it is still an important bill that should enable some important programs to be implemented, such as Lifelong Learning Programmes and Youth at Work Programs. The Integrated Lifelong Learning Programme is extremely important for a whole series of reasons, especially today at this time of rapid technological change, at a time of rapid obsolescence of different knowledge. Formal academic education has its limited life span. And the range of that knowledge is limited. For these reasons, the European Union has made sure that through the relevant integrated lifelong learning programmes, the competence and expertise of all those who participate much longer in important decision-making processes within the European Union's national administration. And that's why this program and these programs at a time like I said fast technological innovations, rapid changes and rapid obsolescence of these knowledge have a huge importance. I'd say maybe new phenomena of much faster obsolescence of our knowledge than the phenomena of our biological aging. Therefore, this academic knowledge needs to be continuously updated to ensure the competence of all those involved in the management processes of the European Union and the bodies of the European Union. and that is why I think it is necessary to highlight the importance of this contract because this informal professional knowledge should also be properly formalised, updated and that is the objective of these programmes. The Agency shall establish a body to ensure the implementation of these important European Union programmes. The Agency will need to co-operate with state administration institutions in the overall vertical of education, public administration bodies, public institutions will carry out all important tasks relating to the preparation and publication of competitions for individual European Union programmes, will learn about the public's activities on how to apply for tenders as well as the collection of applications for these tenders. Ensuring coherence and a project with European national priorities is also an important task for this body that is yet to be established and will also monitor the use of financial resources to be referred to end-users. The coordination of work with all institutions in the Republic of Croatia and the European Union will be an important task of this body. As a result, support is expected for the proposal for this law, the establishment of the Agency, the establishment of the Governing Council and all other bodies so that the Agency can operate as soon as possible. Given the importance of this HDZ agency, it will support the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Mobility and European Union programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94713	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law on the Mobility Agency and European Union programmes. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? 103 for. 1 abstention. With that majority passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94716	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. At the 37th session held on 26 September this year, the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on the approval of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on dual citizenship, with the final proposal for a law. The Committee discussed the proposal for a law on the confirmation of the contract as an interested working body. The proposer explained the need to confirm this contract as one in a series of bilateral contracts between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Contracts shall be concluded for the sake of common specific interests on the principles of mutual respect, integrity, sovereignty and the principles of good neighbouring countries. The initiative to conclude a double citizenship contract came from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since 1999, there has been a need and interest in contractual regulation of dual citizenship issues, i.e. the conclusion of an inter-state contract as a legal framework to determine the eligibility of dual citizenship acquired in accordance with and on the basis of the national legislation laid down by each of these States. In the framework of an agreement on friendship and cooperation between the two countries, the willingness of both parties to enable the acquisition of dual citizenship is expressed to all citizens, but given the constitutional and legislative changes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Following the conclusions of the International Council for Co-operation since 4 October 2000, which confirmed its readiness to deal with the issue, the competent authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina have drawn up a proposal for a double citizenship agreement and delivered it to the Croatian side for consideration. According to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina may also have dual citizenship of another country provided there is a bilateral agreement approved by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the state concerned. Article 4 is replaced by the following: The BiH Citizenship Act found that all persons who had voluntarily acquired other citizenship would lose citizenship in Bosnia and Herzegovina if they did not give up other citizenship within five years of the date of entry into force of the law on 31 December 2002 unless otherwise specified by a bilateral agreement. As of 31 December 2002, a representative... He extended his decision to ten years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On 21 November 2002, the government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to launch a contract procedure between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The contract was initialled on 4 August 2005 in Zagreb and was signed in Sarajevo on 29 March 2007. The Treaty lays down the eligibility of the parallel ownership of the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina acquired in accordance with the conditions and procedure laid down by the legislation of each of the parties contracted and the arrangements for resolving conflicts and dual rights and obligations, regulation of military obligations, the exercise of active and passive voting rights, the achievement of diplomatic and consular protection and repatriation and so on. Meritivity is the law and the state area of law enforcement. Contracting Parties agree that the active and passive voting rights will be exercised in accordance with the domestic legislation of the Contracting Parties. Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who receive guarantee of entry into Croatian citizenship under Article 8. Law on Croatian Citizenship, i.e. Those who are not members of the Croatian people will still have to ask for leave from Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship because it is determined by Croatian law. Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who have acquired citizenship of the Republic of Croatia and have their residence in the Republic of Croatia are losing their voting rights in BiH under Bosnia and Herzegovina law. The dual citizens shall perform a military obligation or other compulsory service in that Contracting Party in which they are resident. The execution of a military obligation by one of the Contracting Parties shall be recognised by the Contracting Party of another nationality. The total number of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who have acquired Croatian citizenship is 734 thousand, the largest number of them acquired citizenship on the basis of Article 16. Law on Croatian citizenship as a member of the Croatian people or the basis of marriage to a Croatian citizen. Since the process of confirming international contracts where amendments or additions to the text of the international contract are not possible at this stage of the procedure, an explanation of the need for the adoption of laws by emergency procedure has been accepted. After the discussion, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on dual citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94717	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94718	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. So here is the Croatian adventure of the 1990s in Bosnia, Bosnia and Herzegovina is good for us, and its position should be clearly strengthened. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia exports the most. So much of that market has to be held as a little bit of water on the palm of your hand. It seems to me that our exports to Bosnia and Herzegovina are over a billion, three hundred million dollars at this time, that our imports from Bosnia and Herzegovina may be two hundred or three hundred million dollars. That is why these statements about the similarity of the workforce that could be heard that in Croatia no one should look for a job except who is a Christian not to mention his name is at least something to condemn. As far as this contract is concerned, we should say the following. Its regulation began in the mandate of the third government of January on 21.11.2002. The contract was then initialled in 4.8.2005 means for the term of office of Sanader's administration here in Zagreb. The purpose of this contract is Article 4 or 4 that a double citizen has and enjoys all the rights which he or she has and enjoys a citizen of a Contracting Party whose territory is a State Party and is obliged to fulfil his or her obligations as a citizen of that Contracting Party unless clearly agreed by a Contract. But in fact, I would say this contract is set in point of a second assessment of the situation and the goal that the law is to achieve, and then this is how the author of this text suggested that I quote literally from the word to the word that, according to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina can have citizenship of another country, provided that there is a bilateral agreement approved by the parliamentary assembly in accordance with Article 4, 4d. between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the country concerned. People with dual citizenship, I underline that it stands here in the text of the reasoning can only vote in Bosnia and Herzegovina and entities if their residence is in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the spirit of the constitutional provision, Article 4. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Citizenship Act adopted on 16 December '97. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A year. In transitional and final provisions, etc. I don't want to pick it up now. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina can only vote if they have residence in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In Croatia, that principle or such a principle is not ruling. He can vote whoever he wants, wherever he's from. It would not even be a problem if we could vote our citizens who are born in Croatia who have a residence here, live somewhere around the world, but the problem is that at this moment the Republic of Croatia has divided over a million and 100,000 citizens into third-country nationals or Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. In Bosnia and Herzegovina alone, we have about 800,000 people who have the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia. Whether 800 or 850 or 780 000 are now less important, but clearly this figure for opportunities in this country is not relevant. And what does that mean in the context of this Article of this Treaty? These 800 000 Croatian citizens can de facto use to be free of all social and other rights that know or know Croatian citizens. I'm sure I won't say 90%, but 2/3 of Bosnia and Herzegovina's pregnant women with dual citizenship are also benefiting from maternity benefits in the Republic of Croatia. How it's done doesn't have to be explained to anyone. The pension thing is similar, with defense rights too, with a health care system absolutely identical. I know, the constitution is absolutely clear there is no dilemma. Croatia must take care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. That's not controversial. It's slow next. By 1995 no diaspora had appeared in the elections in a special constituency. What does that mean? That Croatia didn't know it then until '95. Diaspora list. Since then, we have this list and it is a normal practice that determines in a way and politically, and thus social opportunities in this country. The truth is, I was talking about the need to abolish that list in 2001 when we changed the Constitution twice within 2 or 3 months. It was not intended to be observed, it stands. It was not appreciated that minorities have twice the right to vote which is far more insulting to me because it discredits those who care about minorities the most. But speaking of which, when Europe is talking about discrimination against minorities, then perhaps you could talk about it because it also sort of defines the electoral winner. Having in mind this material pressure of this Treaty on the budget of the Republic of Croatia, I think it should or that the IDS Club will be against. True, the double right to vote, for example, has the Croatian citizens of Italian nationality who were born I don't know before forty-seven, or fifty-four in Italy. But relations are still between Croatia, so they and Italy are in a different way arranged. You can vote, but I won't let you hit the budget. All in all, this is one delicate matter where the rights of first and foremost Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are resolved in one way. Right as we can see from the Bosniak explanation in another way. So the HDZ is for this contract plus a special unit, the SDP is for this contract but to vote within ten electoral units which can be even worse. The IDS is against, meaning that BiH citizens determine the political will in these areas. Here's the basic difference between one, the other and the third. All I know is that this will go away now because more or less all parties have promised to vote in favour of the contract. But I repeat, this contract also has certain material obligations on which these assets are assessed, etc. doesn't mention it. In addition to one sentence that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. But it would be good if we were told how much funds for these needs have been allocated in the Republic of Croatia's budget so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94719	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First, respected representative Ivan bogarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94720	Thank you, Mr. President. He's a colleague of Cain's, I don't know exactly what he said. But here's only two, three of his hard ones that are absolutely incorrect. He said anyone can vote in Croatia. At least it's like it's what it is, who I don't know. In Croatia, however, only citizens of the Republic of Croatia can vote. That's number one. Number two. It is not true that citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot vote outside. Also in the last municipal elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina came votes from Oslo, America and Croatia and from everywhere. Therefore, that is also incorrect. Third thing. It is incorrect that this law, i.e. this contract, draws on itself some material segregation and impact on the State budget. However, and this agreement, the law equalises the rights of citizens, Croatian citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina between the two states. And it has nothing to do with telling each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94721	Second correction, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94722	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Comrade Cain, it would take me 10 minutes to correct everything you've been saying. Article 10: "The Republic of Croatia protects the rights and interests of its citizens who live and reside abroad and promotes their ties with their homeland."and not quote further. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which we would like to change, don't let God see that happen: "Croatian citizens have a general and equal electoral right with 18 years of age in accordance with the law. The right to vote is exercised in the direct elections through a secret vote. In the elections for the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Republic, the exercise of the electoral right of the Republic of Croatia ensures to its citizens who, at the time of the elections, are located outside its borders.", etc. It's not about Croats, about law, voting law, it's about Croatian citizens. We, the Croatian state, as the country of origin, do nothing but work as all countries in the world. When the parliamentary elections in France are in Stuttgart, every Frenchman can vote for his parliament. This is about Croatian citizens. Read Article 9 of the proposed Treaty, Article 4 of the proposed Treaty, read it, and discuss it to yourself as it is written. As far as this law is concerned, this law requires specific budgetary resources and how much of it is allocated to this contract. There is nothing more than what is in the Croatian Budget for each year. I hope that happens in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94723	Third Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94724	Thank you very much. .../The speaker has been turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94725	Andria, the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94726	I am correcting the quote, 90%, and later my colleague Cain corrected 2/3 of Bosnia and Herzegovina's pregnant women using privileges in the Republic of Croatia. That's just not true. In the Republic of Croatia, the number of births is strictly recorded. He's moving plus, minus 40 grand a year. They are all women with permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia. And the same number also records maternity benefits, pregnancy, child care, etc. So there are no phantom abuses he's talking about. Although I wouldn't mind having them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94727	And the third correction, honourable representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94728	Well, here's the first false quote. Mr Cain mentioned some kind of adventure of the Republic of Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's incorrect. There was no adventure of the Republic of Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina but an adventure from Bosnia and Herzegovina headed towards the Republic of Croatia. Let us not forget Ravna and many other cities of the Republic of Croatia that have been attacked from Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the first one. Second, he totally misread Article 4 which speaks very clearly of dual citizenship and has no obligations in terms of social rights arising from Article 4. Therefore, Mr Cain's free interpretations of the rights of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina have become part of his political folklore.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94729	HDZ club, respected representative Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94730	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, allow me to present a review of the HDZ Club in connection with this matter, but without politicizing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is one in a series of bilateral agreements, which come from common and special interests, and on the principles of mutual respect for the integrity, sovereignty and well-being, legally regulates the issue of dual citizenship. Interest in the adoption of this law, i.e. regulation of this question is the truth about... However, the initiative on regulation of this issue came from Bosnia and Herzegovina as early as 1999, in a way that would allow for double citizenship, a category completely legitimate and known in the world, which would be established in accordance with and based on the established national laws of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's nothing illegal or legal. However, within the national laws of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The dual citizenship was also the subject of talks at the level of the Interstate Cooperation Council and was based on the Council's conclusions of 4 October 2000. Bosnia and Herzegovina and made a proposal for a contract, so Croatia did not make a proposal for a contract but Bosnia and Herzegovina. So Bosnia and Herzegovina has come to this contract. And he's in front of us now, and he's signed like that. Since its provisions cannot be changed, because the nature of the contract is such a club of HDZ supporting it as such. And what exactly does this contract bring? I think that's most precisely stated on, in the explanation of this law on page 2. And I would read exactly how it stands, and I wouldn't interpret and politicize as my colleague Cain. "The contract lays down the eligibility of the parallel ownership of the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina acquired in the manner and in the procedure laid down by the legislation of each of the parties agreed, and the means of resolving the conflict and the duality of rights and obligations are mutually defined. This includes the regulation of military obligations, the exercise of active and passive voting rights, the achievement of diplomatic and consular protection, repatriation, etc. So this is one law, one bill that removes a possible or existing law or those that can really be problems like that. Therefore, and there is no burden on Croatia or Bosnia and Herzegovina, however, they contribute in full terms to the words of good neighbourly relations as such. Therefore, as such this contract, the HDZ club supports and here is calling for everyone to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94731	Thank you. An individual debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative and Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94732	Thank you very much. Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, support this confirmation agreement, which actually confirms dual citizenship between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. It would be unusual if you didn't start with a sentence like this because, as it is known, activities in the preparation of this contract began during the past government, a coalition government headed by the SDP as the strongest coalition partner ever. What I would particularly like to point out about this contract is the fact that this is a question that must be settled not only with an aspect of interest, such as in an explanation or in order to be implemented, Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also with the aspect of the interest of the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina can also be granted by nationals of other states, if it has approved by agreement, by means of a contract in the procedure prescribed, by the parliamentary assembly. It is also clear that they prescribed by their Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina that within five years of the entry into force of the law, the dual citizenship of those countries which did not sign or agree had established a certain agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is also clear that the activity of our government, and after the knowledge we have received from the interstate council, is then to initiate a procedure for this issue to be settled by agreement and the procedure has also been initiated before the international representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina... to postpone the application of this law, i.e. a period of five years extended to ten years and that this issue practically opens up the possibility of its regulation by an inter-state contract, i.e. by an agreement of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided on 21 November 2000 to initiate a procedure in which, among other things, they gave basic elements for the signing of a dual citizenship contract. This job lasted quite a long time, he was brought to the conclusion that the contract was initialled in August, in March he was signed and here he is now in ratification. You can see why it's important to point out this question. First, for the purpose of definitely removing the debate on whether or not to detain persons who have dual citizenship of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, this nationality, regardless of whether the Constitution and the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina expressly recognises Article 2. The second thing I would like to say is the fact that people with dual citizenship should not be identified by national criteria because it is simply not true that we Croats have dual citizenship that live, both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, have members of other nationalities, and Serbs, and Bosniaks etc. And in that respect, we need to take care of that fact. The third thing seems to me to be that some things are specific about the exercise of rights under this same contract, and he makes it very clear that double citizens exercise rights and fulfil the obligation in the country where they have residence and that is important... that they reside, which is why some of the issues, including overlapping the possible exercise of the rights that they have so far known to happen, are actually creating a legal basis for this to be better addressed. Of course, it should also be said that not only do they exercise rights at the same time but the article 4 makes it clear that they are enjoying and fulfilling obligations where they live or where they will reside. In particular, what is important, and what is consistent with international documents when it comes to Article 5 concerning the fulfilment of military obligations, the obligations of other civil obligations of public authorities, they are recognised regardless of where they are met and that is fine. Now, of course, the most interesting question is the exercise of the right when it's in third countries. They can achieve them in a way that they actually refer to the state, the citizenship they want, but in accordance with the international convention on diplomatic relations, the Vienna Convention, the Convention on consular relations from Vienna in 63 and 61, respectively. Now what's controversial, some say. This is actually a question on the one hand of the exercise of an active and passive electoral right, but what will not be read, and what the contract says is that it is achieved in accordance with the internal legislation of the Contracting Parties. Therefore, the active and passive voting rights of a person with dual citizenship will be exercised as regulated by our Constitution and as regulated by our law in the Republic of Croatia, in Bosnia as theirs. But the key thing is if we have any objections, any objections about this issue, then we must not question the rights of active and passive selection of members of a nationality but must speak because the law does not belong to the nation and nationality and active, passive voting rights, rather than citizens. And in this context it is wrong to say that Croatians will be deprived of their right to vote if we want to change the Constitution, if we want to amend the law, we must take away everyone, because citizens, by nationality, cannot be shared. They have to be equal. Second, it is important to highlight this particular issue. Those who offer such solutions must be aware that they must change the Constitution, but at that moment they also offer the obligation to rely on the people of dual citizenship who will retain citizenship. And those who want to keep their citizenship possibly Croatian for their own reasons, I will not enter now neither the political, economic or any reason, but they must be aware of many of that that many can lose both the material and other rights they retain in another country. Of course, this can be done politically until such solutions lead to a policy of further peaceful migration, which is not good. The Republic of Croatia recognises Bosnia and Herzegovina as an independent sovereign state and recognises it, the Republic of Croatia is asking that all three peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina be equal and equal to the right, and constitutive in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia have the interest that those who have been expelled from Bosnia and Herzegovina return to Bosnia and Herzegovina to continue to exercise their civil and other rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the right of dual citizenship is not if I may say so by the co-ordination of the Republic of Croatia. It's an institute that's spreading more and more into Europe. The second question is how and how to regulate relations in the exercise of individual rights of members of persons with dual citizenship. And the last thing I'm saying is motivated by today's debate. In 2002, this assembly held a debate on the amendment and addition of the Law on Elections in which we proposed the abolition of a special electoral unit, but never in this House was the current ruling party, nor was the ruling SDP party then proposing the abolition of dual citizenship, nor the loss of the right of persons with dual citizenship to vote, but we only opened a debate in which I think it is fair, fair and legal, that in fact all citizens can choose those representatives in the Croatian Parliament and vice versa that they can elect all representatives in the Croatian Parliament and therefore do not need to have their own special constituency. Why? So they can be responsible for the political decisions they make in general in this Croatian Assembly, not just for people with dual citizenship who choose them in a special constituency. Because as they are now set up, they are, in one part, too many powers, and in the other part they have no one to question the responsibility for what they decide, and at the same time they do not have the special rights they should have if they already represent only one category of citizens of the veto when they violate the rights of those categories of citizens. You see, it is very interesting that this debate then reached the agreement between the SDP legislator and the opposition then, in particular the HDZ on the need for this law to go to another reading and to adopt it. The problem was that it was against the law at that time that some who today were calling and the need to make this contract. I think the time has come for this issue to be settled, that this contract is not bad, it can be further developed, but it is a matter of international relations, interstate relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. I will personally vote for him, and as far as I know, the SDP's Club of Representatives will support the adoption of this contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94733	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this point. Final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on dual citizenship. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 101 for and 3 against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94736	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Let me just brief you on the issue in question treated by this Law. By signing and confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the arrangement of status and other legal relations related to the investment and exploitation and decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant, the Contracting Parties have undertaken to ensure, in equal terms, the financing of the costs of the construction and implementation of the Krško nuclear power plant decommissioning programme and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, which will result in appropriate regulations and which will ensure regular payment of the funds of each party to their specific fund in the amount provided for in the decommissioning programme. According to the decommissioning programme from the beginning of 2004 to the next cost assessment in the next review of the decommissioning programme, the basis for the collection of funds in decommissioning funds in Croatia and Slovenia is the total discounted cost of decommissioning and disposal in the rounded amount of 350m euros corresponding to 19 equal annuities of 28.5m euros to be paid from 2004 to 2022. Half of that amount of 14.25m euros should be paid annually to the fund on the Croatian side. In order to ensure the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant and the disposal of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel, the Krško Government of the Republic of Croatia at its session on 28 April 2006 adopted a regulation on the way the funds for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear power plants are paid to the special account of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia until the establishment of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from the Krško nuclear power plant and the opening of the fund accounts to which they will be transferred until then on the basis of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. And only briefly, the information and what is proposed by this law. The normal basic proposal is the establishment of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško nuclear power plants, its structure, activity and resources, the purpose and management of funds. Other basic indications in this Act define how and for what these funds are used for, and this is the design and revision of the decommissioning programme under Articles 10 and 11 of the Interstate Treaty, then the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant in accordance with the decommissioning, disposal and disposal of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel from the nuclear power plant in accordance with the decommissioning programme and the cost of operating costs of the fund. The operations of the fund in connection with the collection, preservation and increase of the value of the funds for the financing of the production of the audit and implementation of the decommissioning programme shall then be defined in such a way that funds can be invested in securities, deposits and other safe placements in accordance with the law and statute of the Fund, while respecting the principle of investment security, the diversity of investments and the maintenance of the current corresponding liquidity. The Fund is managed by a management board of 7 members, one of which is the president, and appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the time of 4 years, while the fund's operations are run by the fund manager appointed by the Management Board on the basis of a public tender also from 4 years. The Management Board may, in a manner prescribed by the Statute, decide that part or all of the funds of the Fund can be given to the management of the investment fund management company chosen on the basis of a public tender, in accordance with the criteria and criteria laid down by a certain law, the statute of the Fund and the specific rule on criteria and criteria for the selection of the company. The law also required regular payment of funds at the expense of the fund certain Croatian electricity company Zagreb, which will pay the funds three months to the final end of the work of the nuclear power plant "Krško", or until the planned amount of funds is realised by the last revision of the decommissioning programme. Although the Law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel is not the subject of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, in the European Commission and in the framework of accession negotiations with the European Union in the field of energy, the Croatian Parliament is also expected to adopt the Law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The following is proposed to adopt this law by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94737	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of HDZ MPs, respected counterpart Marko Širac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94738	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the adoption of this law. But before that, allow me a small review of the construction of a nuclear power plant between the 1970s and the 1980s when the Socialist Republic of Croatia and the Socialist Republic of Slovenia agreed and agreed to build a nuclear power plant "Krško". I tried to look into those agreements and contracts. There is no obligation on the part of the Republic of Croatia to settle nuclear waste disposal costs and especially spent nuclear fuel. However, as you know, the Republic of Slovenia has for several years denied the supply of electricity to the Republic of Croatia or to consumers in the Republic of Croatia. A 2002 contract on the arrangement of the status and other legal relations related to investment, exploitation, decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant signed between the coalition government, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and this contract was ratified by both states, the Republic of Croatia has undertaken to provide an effective solution together with the Republic of Slovenia for the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel generated during the propulsion and decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant, and will ensure the financing of costs in equal parts. Why did I say that before? All accounts carried out by the programme were carried out for the next 19 years. The nuclear exploitation period has been forgotten. The period when we were not supplied with electricity from the nuclear power plant was also forgotten and agreed to a joint settlement of these costs. The programme of decommissioning the Krško nuclear power plant and the disposal of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel has been developed by a joint expert group and has been mutually accepted after the international review. We, too, gave the Croatian Parliament the principle agreement on the programme last year. The programme assessed the future cost of decommissioning the Krško nuclear power plant, the disposal of radioactive waste, the disposal and exploitation of nuclear fuel to approximately 350m euros. However, it is a discount price. This cost will cost the Republic of Croatia at least $600m or we can now also say euros. As the work of Krško Nuclear Power Plant was planned, 19 years later, i.e. By 2022, each state in equal 19 annuities of 14.25m euros is required to pay a special fund for the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant. In the meantime, until a fund was established, the Government of the Republic of Croatia by means of a regulation obliged the Croatian electricity industry to subscribe from the sale of electricity to a certain part of the funds that have been poured into our state budget. However, by contract with the Republic of Slovenia and by respecting the commitments made by the Government, it now proposes to pass the Law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel nuclear power plant "Krško" which regulates its structure, activity, resources and the purpose of funds and fund management. The Fund will carry out tasks relating to the collection, preservation and increase of the value of funds, the production of audits and the implementation of the decommissioning programme in such a way that funds of the fund can be invested in securities, deposits and other safe placements. The law requires the payment of funds at the expense of the fund to re-determin Croatia's electricity company Zagreb, and the deadline and method of regular payment of funds at the expense of the fund will be laid down by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The initial funds for the work of the fund are provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia according to the Regulation on how to raise funds to finance the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the adoption of this law in order to ensure that after 2022, the nuclear power plant, unused nuclear fuel and of course the radioactive waste produced by it is broken down and taken care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94739	Thank you, dear fellow Shirac. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, the esteemed colleague Vladimir Stengl. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94740	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Republic of Croatia is obliged to finance the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from the so-called Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Obligations stem from a signed and confirmed contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The joint obligation of the Contracting Parties is an effective solution for decommissioning and for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel and all in accordance with the decommissioning programme. Funding and implementation of the programme shall be provided by contracting parties in equal parts. To that end, the rules to be regulated shall be laid down by the payment of the funds of each Contracting Party to its specific fund on a regular basis. The funds should also finance each and every half of the activities related to the decommissioning and disposal of total radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from the power plant and the decommissioning of Krško nuclear power plant. The programme is based on international standards and practices in this area, so the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant, the disposal of low and medium radioactive waste, will not be read, and spent nuclear fuel ING. According to the programme, 350m euros, 28.5m euros per year, and 14.25m euros, respectively, from the beginning of 2004 to the next cost assessment. The government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a regulation on how to deposit funds to finance the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plants. This law proposes the establishment of a fund, its structure, activity, sources, purpose and management of funds. The Fund shall have the task of collecting, preserving and increasing the value of the funds for the production, audit and implementation of the programme, with the possibility of investing funds in securities, deposits and other placements, of course safe. The Fund has a management board of seven members appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The fund has a director, appointed by the Management Board after a public tender, is appointed for a period of four years. He is committed to regular payment of funds at the expense of the Croatian electricity company d.d. Zagreb. This law is not the subject of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union in the framework of accession negotiations with the European Union for a chapter of energy, but the adoption of this and this law is absolutely necessary and expected. The process of decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel Krško nuclear power plant is something that is unquestionable, which must happen, therefore decommissioning. There is simply no waiting, so everything must be regulated legally. I therefore support the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94741	Thank you very much, Comrade Stengl. I'm asking my colleague Cosic to take his word for it. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94742	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94743	Turn yourself in, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94744	Okay. It's more or less clear, but still some answers to some questions are missing. The decommissioning programme was built by a project team composed of professional organisations from Croatia and Slovenia. Whether the same team worked out and decommissioning costs taking into account the period within which electricity was not delivered to the Republic of Croatia. There is no reason to pay decommissioning costs for that period that does not belong to the Republic of Croatia. So far, it has been paid under this fund of 29m euros since it is the obligation of HEP. Another 7.5m euros will be paid next week. These are significant funds which certainly require the adoption of this law as quickly as possible to justify this fund, in order to start managing these non-small financial resources in an appropriate manner. However, before voting in any case it would also be useful to obtain this information whether decommissioning costs were correctly calculated and whether these time intervals were taken into account when electricity was not delivered to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94745	Thank you, colleague Cosic. Does the Secretary of State want to take the final word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Vrankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94746	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll just take a minute. So, the expert team is composed of representatives of both Slovenia and Croatia, it has worked out quality as you have said means according to the professional basis of the programme in question. He took into account all financial sizes. However, this disputed period when the supply of electricity to Croatia was halted is the subject of an arbitration dispute, it is not yet as defined, it is ongoing. As the data ends, I think it's practically an advantage on Croatia's side. How it's going to go further and in which direction, whether it's going to be an agreement, an agreement, or a river of arbitration, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94747	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94748	Mr. Secretary of State, this is not the subject of a dispute between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia. The subject of the dispute has been a compensation for unsupervised electricity since the date on which the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia concluded a relationship arrangement agreement. Therefore, it is the subject of a dispute already at an international court in New York. However, what I have encouraged and what encourages fellow Cosic is a matter of six or seven years when the Republic of Croatia has not received any kilowatts of electricity and now participates equally in taking care of such difficult things and this cost will cost the Republic of Croatia 600m euros over the next nineteen years. And that's the discount price. Add that to the price of capital so you'll see what it is. And the conclusion of this contract did not take into account that in previous contracts there were no words about the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to take care of it, because Slovenians were happy to get a location in Krško when they went to build a nuclear power plant. Other locations were scheduled in the Republic of Croatia – near Ivanić City, on the Danube, on Vir, etc. And that's all forgotten.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94749	Thank you, dear fellow Shirac. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this wheel when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94750	Final draft law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško nuclear power plants. I am voting on the final draft of the law. For? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 103 for, 2 abstentions passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94751	We're moving to the next item on the agenda of 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 767 The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The word has a state secretary, respected counterpart Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94752	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Just briefly on this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorists, which is actually present, although the international document that we copy into our legislation is a step further on the road to preventing terrorism both internally and in international co-operation. It is usually a convention Croatia signed in 2005. So far, it has been signed by 32 other states and ratified by 7 countries, and the conditions laid down in that convention for its entry into force have been met. The purpose of the convention is already derived from its name. So it's an increase in the efforts of the state, the states of parties to prevent terrorism. In doing so, this Convention also lays down criminal acts, such as public motivation to commit terrorist offences, recruitment of terrorists, training of terrorists, and others, which are considered, through this Convention or through national legislation, criminal acts of terrorism or related criminal acts by means of which the Convention speaks of certain criminal acts. They are in our legislation, in fact, aid, encouragement, complicity and so on. It normally complements other multilateral or bilateral agreements, such as the European Convention on Extradition, the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters and a series of other international documents. So, it represents a continuation of efforts through the legislation of the countries, not only of the EU member states, but it seems to me that all countries in the world are also fighting terrorism, i.e. creating mechanisms that should be used in practice to successfully combat terrorism. In our legislation, we already have a criminal offence of international terrorism prescribed in Article 169 and a number of other crimes aimed at preventing terrorism such as association or committing a crime of international terrorism, preparing this work and similar crimes in our legislation. So, hopefully by ratifying this Convention and by becoming the internal legislation of the Republic of Croatia, we will send an additional message and create another additional mechanism that will successfully combat terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94753	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The word has a colleague Tomljanovic on behalf of the Justice Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 58th session held on 26 September 2007, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 30 August 2007. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In his opening statement, the proposing representative pointed out that the Republic of Croatia would successfully oppose terrorism by confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. Without discussion, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided with 8 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94755	Thank you very much, dear fellow Tomljanović. On behalf of the club, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected colleague of the Dance. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94756	Thank you. Dear Mr Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the HDZ Club, of course, it will support the confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, because the convention was drawn up in Warsaw in 2005, the same year, the same day that it was adopted on 17 May and signed by Croatia. By June of this year, 32 countries signed the convention, of which 7 have ratified the convention. Therefore, the assumptions for the entry into force of that Convention are fulfilled on the basis of Article 23 of the Convention. The purpose of the Convention is to increase the efforts of countries to prevent terrorism and its negative effects on the full enjoyment of human rights in particular through national measures and through international cooperation between the States of the Parties and the Convention. Speaking of terrorism, we must mention here that terrorism is a crime that is difficult to prevent, that is, to combat classical ways of fighting crime. The terrorism gained a special dimension after the terrible terrorist attacks on September 11th 2001 on targets in the United States. Although it is not yet possible to see all the consequences of the terrorist attack on the United States, it can be said with absolute certainty that in the history of September 11, 2001, it will remain recorded as a turning point in the development of international relations. One of the European Union's reactions to the September 11th terrorist attacks is certainly this convention, which I said Croatia signed in 2005. For Croatia as a country that seeks to become a full member of the European Union, it is particularly important to monitor the activities of the European Union and its members in the fight against terrorism in particular development and the creation of effective European criminal legislation. The Member States of the European Union have realised that they cannot deal successfully and effectively with the threats of terrorism and have therefore decided to create certain common legislative solutions that will improve their cooperation in the fight against terrorism. Greater solidarity between countries is needed to expose, demonstrate, condemn and prevent any terrorist action. Terrorism is a wild and inhumane method to be completely rejected. Because terrorism has an internationally divided network, it takes unity of all peoples to overcome the forces of hate and evil in order to avoid replacing these forces with a legal order, reason negotiations, and great efforts to achieve democracy. Each society needs first to study the causes of terrorism wisely. It is necessary to laws, decisions, appropriate security measures to protect the lives and rights of innocent people, legitimate rights of democratic institutions, and to prevent those who do not want to respect those rights. Due to such a situation and in order to prevent and combat terrorism at international level, the HDZ Club agrees with the proposal and need to confirm the Convention. By confirming the Convention, the Republic of Croatia will show its readiness to join the international community's efforts to prevent and combat terrorism at international level and to strengthen its cooperation with the States Parties to the Convention to take effective measures to prevent terrorism. The HDZ Club, in conclusion, also agrees with the urgent procedure of the proposal, in view of the nature of the procedure, the confirmation of international contracts with which the state and formally express its willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract, as well as the fact that amendments or additions to the text of the international contract cannot be made at the stage of this procedure. We also suggest that this law be adopted by emergency procedure by uniting first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94757	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the SDP representative club, respected counterpart Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94758	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club also supports this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, with the Final Proposal for a Law. We note that Croatia's legal practice has always been on the verge of just suppressing terrorist acts in its legal history since 1970, respecting the Convention on the control of the illegal hijacking of aircraft signed in The Hague. Then the Convention, which is from 1970, followed by the Convention on the Restraint of illegal acts directed against the security of civil aviation, which was concluded in Montreal, etc. Montreal Convention. Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Crimes against persons under international protection, and the International Convention against Host Taking, etc. which is all here and in this Appendix to the Bill's proposal, as explained. I also note that it is not enough to just adopt this Law on Confirmation of the Convention, but that there is also a whole series of obligations that Croatia then has to interpret in its criminal legislation, to apply this whole series of obligations imposed on this Convention. Of course, Croatia already has in its criminal law, in its special head a whole series of these laws that treat this matter. But here, too, on behalf of the SDP club, we note that in 1957, the Association of Criminal Law is still far away, I think this is important to note, doing not only legal issues but otherwise our political stance on terrorist acts. So then this association, which is later, the association, or association for criminal law from 1957, which was later translated into certain conventions, and then into certain laws of many countries, almost all advanced countries stood at the point of view that the crimes committed by any political motive that creates the state of terror cannot in any case be treated as political punishable acts but should be treated as they are, states or acts of terrorism. I think it is sometimes forgotten in our political practice by looking at it, starting with who did it and who it was done to. Thus, such crimes are not political acts but acts, ordinary acts of terror, i.e. terrorism and such should be treated, and not the form of some kind of political struggle, depending on who's in power, who's not. We also believe that these are serious things that need not be manipulated or justified by the passing of some laws in fear of acts of terrorism. I note here and now on this occasion on behalf of the SDP Club that we have passed the Law on the ban on gathering, that is, the ban on protesting here on our Mark square all by reason here because of the fear of acts of terrorism. That's what the argument was. I also note that the law is in front of the Constitutional Court and is awaiting its, its right to react precisely to the SDP club. We also hold in the SDP that the root terrorism should be prevented, that these are serious things, that they are even in the economy and that there is one difference between the rich and the poor that we are on this track, and it is quite wrong to contain. So respecting this proposal and appreciating therefore serious intentions and seriously approaching, therefore and taking seriously this Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism in the SDP Club, we note that as soon as possible, it may be too late for this call but it should also be adopted by amendments to the Penal Code in order to adapt and fully respect the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, which I once again mention that the SDP Club strongly supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94759	Thank you, dear colleague. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote on this agenda point when we get together, the terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94760	Final draft law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Unanimity with 105 votes to pass the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94761	We're going to the next item on the agenda. 11. Proposal for a Law confirming the 1979 Protocol on the Control of Emissions of Vulnerable Organic Mergers or their Transboundary Electricity with the 1979 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 773. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection and the Committee on European Integration. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We don't have anyone to argue with right now. Anybody want to sign up? No, I don't. Then I will conclude the debate and we will hold a vote on this item of the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94762	Final proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on the control of emissions of volatile organic compounds or their cross-border currents under the 1979 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? He's laudable, he's not flabby. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity passed a proposed law with 105 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94763	We're moving to agenda 12. 12. Proposal for a law confirming the 1979 Protocol on the control of nitrogen oxide emissions or their cross-border currents with the 1979 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination, with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 774. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection and the Committee on European Integration. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any reports. Anybody want to sign up? No, I don't. I am concluding the debate and we will vote on this item of the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94764	Final proposal of the Law on the Verification of the Protocol on the Control of Nitric oxide Emissions or their Transboundary Electricity under the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination of '79. A year. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 104 passed unanimously proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94765	Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on rules for cooperation in relation to financial assistance to the European Community to the Republic of Croatia in implementing aid under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA), with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 778 Proposer of the Law is Government. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the law? Yeah. The word is Mrs. Martina Dalic, State Secretary of the Central State Office. Here you go, Mrs. Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94766	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This Agreement constitutes the basis for the use of the financial resources from the European Union budget for the period 2007 to 2010, and the basis for the relevant decisions of the European Union body in Croatia has already been allocated to the total available funds of EUR 589.9 million for that period, thus confirming this law and the agreement establishing a legal framework for the use of that money. The agreement therefore sets out the technical, legal and administrative framework in which projects to be financed from these funds will be implemented and the general implementation of this law in terms of the implementation of projects to be financed by the basis of these funds will also require co-financing from the state budget so that, in the period until 2010, co-financing, the necessary co-financing from the state budget will be slightly more than 1.2 billion kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94767	Thank you, Mrs. Dalic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the HDZ Club, a respected colleague, Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94768	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this Proposal for a Law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Community relating to the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA), with the Final Proposal for the Law and its adoption by an urgent procedure. The basic reason is that the signing and entry into force of this Agreement is a prerequisite for the launch of measures under the IPA pre-accession assistance instrument. Namely, IPA is the new European Union instrument for the period 2007 to 2013 which replaces previous CARDS, PHARE, ISPA, SAPARD, which Croatia has been a beneficiary. In general, the programme concerns assistance in strengthening democratic institutions and the rule of law, protecting human rights and minority rights, gender equality, reform of state administration, economic reform, development of civil society, social inclusion, confidence building measures and reconstruction and regional and cross-border co-operation. As Croatia belongs to the round of candidate countries and taking into account that the approaches and negotiations with Croatia are under way, the support of the IPA Instrument will also finance the accelerated harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union and social and economic and territorial development, including investment in areas related to regional development and human potential development. This programme has been opened to Croatia for participation from this 2007 until its membership in the European Union when, of course, it will be replaced by European Union funds intended for Member States. Out of the total amount allocated by the European Commission for the implementation of the IPA programme by 2010 which is 5 billion and 740 million euros, Croatia will be able to use 589.9m euros during that period. The amount will gradually rise from 138.5m euros per year as scheduled for this year to 154.2m euros in 2010. In addition to helping and co-financeing this instrument a large number of projects and implementing reforms in a number of areas needed for the best preparation of Croatia in the conditions of membership in the European Union, this programme will also ensure the readiness of the relevant institutions of the Republic of Croatia for membership and will allow them to develop institutional capacity and, most importantly, a practical experience in the management of interventions similar to those of the European Union funds whose Croatia will be a beneficiary after entering membership. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the proposal for a law on the validation of the Framework Agreement and its adoption by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94769	Thank you, fellow Jelkovac. Would you like to take the closing word? No, I don't. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94770	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the rights to co-operate in relation to the European Community's financial assistance to the Republic of Croatia in implementing aid under the pre-accession assistance instruments. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 104 votes to pass the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94771	Moving to point 14. 14. Final draft law confirming the financing agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a Community support programme in the field of nuclear security for Croatia for 2006, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 781 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain the law? Yeah. Here you go. The word has the secretary of state, Mrs. Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94772	Dear MPs, I apologize for this minor, minor discrepancies in the papers. It is the project financed by the PHARE project, from the PHARE 2006 funds, which is the last two projects for which PHARE 2006 funds are deployed and is financed by two projects, support to the National Nuclear Security Institute, the improvement and modernisation of the timely warning system and the border control of nuclear and other radioactive materials using stationary portals and monitors in the Republic of Croatia. The financial resources covered by this agreement amount to €3.3 million, of which the contribution of the Republic of Croatia is €562,000. We accept the amendment to the proposed agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94773	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94774	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Framework Agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Community assistance programme was signed in March 2002, ratified in the Croatian Parliament in June and the same year 2002. Appendix C to this Agreement sets out the objectives and description of the financed programmes, which in this case is nuclear safety in the candidate countries of the European Union which are beneficiaries of grants, which includes and means the effectiveness of supervision, improvement of the management of radioactive waste and an increase of preparedness outside the nuclear facility in the event of an emergency situation. Other users under this programme are from our environment, not directly, but are relatively close to Romania and Bulgaria. This proposed law confirms the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the European Union's nuclear security assistance programme in Croatia for 2006. The funds are intended for the authorities responsible for nuclear safety and for the bodies responsible for the management of radioactive waste. The agreement will fund the State Nuclear Security Institute, to improve and modernise Croatia's timely warning system. Data, the fact that Krško nuclear power plant is only about 12km from the Croatian border, that Zagreb is within a 50km radius of that nuclear power plant, so Krško's nuclear power plant speaks enough. It speaks in favour of the need and necessity of installing such a system. Not to mention the Hungarian Nuclear Power Plant Pakš, which is about 90 kilometers from the border with the Republic of Croatia, and about 170 kilometers from Vukovar. At an average Danube speed of about three kilometers an hour in case something unexpected happens, let the accident reach the Danube border in 30 hours, almost so much from the border to Vukovar and here's that water in less than 3 days. Besides, the experience with the Chernobyl accident from 20 years ago, and it's about far greater distances, everything confirms. The agreement will also fund a project of border control of nuclear and other radioactive materials using stationary portal monitors in Croatia. The smuggling of radioactive materials is not only a grateful topic of films and television series, but a possible reality and it is certain that certain corridors also cross the territory of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. those corridors that intersect Croatia are not immune from these phenomena. This project plans to equip 14 border crossings, road, rail and port, stationary portal monitors for the detection of nuclear and other radioactive materials for training teams to work with stationary portal monitors, and to equip customs officers with hand tools. The user of the project is the State Institute for radiation protection and, of course, I support the adoption of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94775	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the financing agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a Community support programme in the field of nuclear security for Croatia for 2006. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The bill was passed unanimously with 104 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94778	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Allow me also a few words about the Proposal for a General Product Safety Act with the Final Bill. This is about the safety of products that are one of the priority issues both in the Member States of the European Union and in the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, the General Product Safety Act prescribes that all products placed on the market must be safe. On the other hand, consumers should have all the relevant information relating to the safety of products or services offered on the markets. This Act applies to those products on the market whose area of security is not regulated by a specific regulation and where risks, i.e. the type of risks that the product may pose to the consumer are not provided for in a specific regulation. Otherwise, those products cannot pose a risk to consumer health and safety which must be prevented. When we talk about product safety, the main gains of the European Union relating to safety measures include several guidelines such as the general product safety guidelines that have already been introduced into Croatian legislation through the current General Product Safety Act, which was adopted in October 2003. There are then two guidelines relating to liability for an incorrect product which has also been transposed into Croatian legislation through the Law on Mandatory Relations and a guideline relating to products which are not as they appear to threaten the health or safety of consumers has not yet been transposed into Croatian legislation, which will be done by adopting this Act. This Guideline obliges Member States to apply measures to remove from the market such products that represent dangerous imitations. The specific weight policy puts the public right to be informed of dangerous products and contains provisions which oblige public authorities to provide citizens with access to information on the risks of products on the market, dangerous products on the market. The adoption of this Act will not be allowed to produce, import, export, advertise and place on the market products considered dangerous imitations. In the past period, the analysis of the applicable General Product Safety Act of 2003 was established in certain provisions of a certain legal gap which, in view of the importance of product safety on the market, was necessary in more detail and more comprehensively covered. It is also assessed that the scope of the applicable law is within the scope of the general product safety guidelines, and that certain parts of those guidelines are not fully transposed into Croatian legislation. A policy related to dangerous imitations is also not incorporated into Croatian legislation. Therefore, it was necessary to access the regulation of this area through amendments and additions to the applicable General Product Safety Act. I would highlight some very important changes and additions to this law, which will positively reflect consumer safety in the Republic of Croatia. This law will distinguish the obligations of manufacturers and distributors in such a way as to place the obligation on the market of only safe products and distributors to act with due care and to comply with applicable safety conditions, in particular by not delivering products they know or should have assumed not to meet these conditions. Furthermore, in the event that manufacturers or distributors know or should know the dangers posed by consumer products placed on the market, they are obliged to inform the competent inspection authorities without delay. The revised and updated criteria under which the product will be considered safe in the sense that the product must comply with the rules establishing the health and safety requirements that the product must meet in order to be placed on the market. In this connection, the minister responsible for the general safety of products in collaboration with the Croatian national normina body will publish a list of norms whose use of the product is considered safe. In order to create general obligations, only safe products should be placed on the market and ensure a consistent high level of consumer health and safety protection, competent inspection authorities may take measures aimed at all those who place an insecure product on the market. It is also important to stress that the return of products from consumers will only be taken in the extreme case where other measures are not sufficient to prevent certain risks either by the manufacturer or the competent inspection body. Go on. By defining the concept of products considered dangerous by imitation as well as the prohibition of production, import and export and placing on the market of such products, the provisions on product safety for consumers and, above all, the protection of children are strengthened. In order to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of this law, the role and authority of the competent inspection authorities have been strengthened, and penalties in the event of an infringement have also been increased. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that the amendments to the General Product Safety Act will achieve the desired objective, which is that consumers on the market feel secure and protected. It is therefore proposed that the Croatian Parliament adopt this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94779	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. HDZ MPs' club, respected representative Mirjana Brnadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94780	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, from the opening presentation of the Secretary of State, we heard the reasons why it was necessary to adopt amendments and additions to the Product Safety Act. We have also heard which all directives regulate the area of consumer protection and health of the European Union. So I would briefly refer to something that I think is most important highlighted in the adoption of amendments and additions to this law. Directives relating to liability for an invalid product have already been implemented in the Law on Mandatory Relations, so that there was no need for any amendments to the existing law. The General Security Directive has already been implemented by the majority in the current 2003 Product Safety Act, and the same Directive gives special attention to the public's right to be informed of dangerous products. This means that competent authorities must allow citizens access to information on the existence of dangerous products on the market. It is also an obligation for the European Commission to manage a rapid exchange of information in the event of dangerous risks to consumers. So once a week get on the web. The consumer business page, i.e. consumer affairs, publishes data on dangerous products and photographs of products, trade name, country of origin, possible risks and all other data. A directive relating to products which are not as they appear and endanger consumer health and safety has been implemented in this law. These are dangerous imitations. The products and services offered on the internal market must meet safety standards and the consumer must be well informed about the product. And not as often as it is the case that an increaser must be sought on the product declaration, that these declarations with too little data are to be made by the consumer to make the right decision on the purchase of the product, etc. This proposal sets out the obligations of manufacturers and distributors to amend and supplement laws. The definition of the manufacturer is expanded and is now considered to be the person who processed the product. The role and powers of competent inspections have been strengthened, penalties for violations have been increased, as there is no good application of the law without good penalties. All with the aim of placing only safe products on the market, thus ensuring consumer health and safety, and above all child health protection. In addition to harmonising with EU legislation and general product safety directives and dangerous imitations, this law will ensure a high level of protection of citizens and free flow of consumer goods on the internal market, and the HDZ Club will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94781	Thank you. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. I'm closing this agenda. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the General Product Safety Act. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? A colleague of Caine's? Yeah, okay. Restraint? The proposed law was passed unanimously with 104 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94784	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed amending and supplementing the Law on Extra charge for children with the final proposal for a law that is in line with EU legislation. A positive attitude towards family and children is deeply embedded in the culture of the Croatian population. This government has put the family at the heart of political, cultural and social action. Family support is a priority objective of empowering families in raising children starting with maternity leave to work with reduced working hours for child care, monthly cash benefits and one-time assistance. Remember the extension of the right to use maternity leave from two to three years employed or self-employed mother who gave birth to twins, third and next child with the raise of the amount of birth benefits from a thousand to 600 kuna. An unemployed mother who gave birth to a first or second child has been extended the right to maternity leave from six to twelve months and an increased maternity benefit. An unemployed mother who gave birth to twins, a third and every subsequent child is guaranteed the right to maternity leave for up to the third year of the life of a thousand and 600 kuna child. The allowance for children in the Republic of Croatia has a significant place in the family support system. In January 2007, amendments and additions to the Children's Extras Act were entered into into force on the basis of which a promising supplement was introduced to the third and fourth children's extras for 500 kuna. The latest data suggests that this right was achieved by 66,000 741 children. It is possible to obtain the right to pay the users an allowance whose average monthly income per household member for the previous year is 50% of the budget base, i.e. one thousand 663 kuna and less. The lowest amount of birth benefits was raised to 50% of the budget base of a thousand 663 kuna. The amount of one-time cash aid for newborn child equipment was raised to 70% of the budget base, for 2007 amounts to 2 000 328.20 kuna. After entering the European Union supplementing the Law on Supplements, it is also possible to obtain the right to social benefits and, in itself, by this law, not by itself, to forgive this law but also by international contracts and rules of the European Union in the social security system. The Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts the bill on the principle of social sensitivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94785	Thank you. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. She's gone, she's losing her word. A representative of the respected Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94786	Thank you. Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, in this amendment to the Law on Extra charge on children, which is actually a alignment with the acquis of the European Union that will apply when we become a member of the European Union, so I have nothing more to add in this respect, but I would generally refer to a child's allowance, which is actually one significant measure and supports natural growth and gives support to the family and is one of the measures certainly national policy, has a twofold effect, and a innovative but social one. If we go and we really do, I believe that the family is the foundation of every society and the foundation of a single nation and that it should be supported in any case, and this government has been really consistent since 2004 and beyond. And that's very important shows here's the information about the number of live births. For example, in the last term when it started immediately with restrictions and one depopulation policy, it immediately reflected on the number of children. So let's say here's '99. The year we had 45 thousand 179 so that in 2000, it would immediately fall to 43,000 and continue to decrease to 40,000 and end in 2003 with 39 thousand 668 or 15 thousand and 400 children less than in these three years. And this kind of population policy I say is being implemented by this government certainly gave first results immediately, but since 2004, with 42,000 children. And this innovative policy, or putting the family at the centre of the event as the basic foundation of society already in 2004, means by amending and supplementing the Law on maternity leave of the mother, indeed, significant shifts have been made because the benefits from the employee and only the employed mother rose from a thousand to two-and-a-half thousand kuna, which is about 60%. Then, of course, it is important to change this for the third and every other child from one thousand to one thousand and 600 and not to mention that this maternity leave has returned to three years, which was reduced in the previous term. Then, also unemployed mothers, and we know that it's important to compensate the unemployed mothers that this compensation for the first and second children is increased from 900 to 600 kuna, which is certainly not much but is an increase of 70%. There were also programmes for eight and more children from the award of free textbooks, computer assignments, etc. In 2005, if we take into account all these measures that have already produced the first results, so additional maternity leave up to one year of a child's life in 2004 with 16 thousand and 673 has increased to 18 thousand. An even greater shift is seen when it comes to maternity leave from one to three years of child's life where with a thousand 826 it increased to 6 thousand 371 in order to make it 9,000 and 198 in 2007. It is also important to move when it comes to the maternity leave of unemployed mothers where the number has doubled more than in 2005. However, in 2006, a national policy was adopted, a national population policy which has really comprehensively touched every segment of the family when it comes to children, and since the increase in child-bearing benefits now amounting to 70% of the average salary until the shift in child-compensation rights, so that earlier years it was 40% of the budget base has now been raised to 50% where a significant number of children are going to use it and I think that the number was, somewhere, to speak from 40 to 50 thousand children who will be more covered. Also important is this supplement for the third and fourth children and certainly this number is a significant number of children who use it 66 thousand 741, it really is not to be ignored. And all that goes on not to talk about free textbooks in elementary school, in first grade high school, then free accommodation in dorms, free transportation. I know how much transportation was very problematic, let's say in my environments where some villages bordered Bosnia and Herzegovina's children because of the inability to travel to school and because of the burden, because of financial burdens went to Brcko school instead of to Županje, and it was indeed an important problem for many families for years, and indeed they welcomed this measure of population policy, which, finally, in the state budget of a billion and 800 thousand kuna, certainly a significant shift. Therefore, certainly these all-stimulating measures cannot fully address our problem of population policy and our problem of population ageing where we already have a share of over 16, 16.5%, which then certainly reflects on the economic and other development of society and endangers actually the basic potential societies. I therefore welcome any measures taken and this law that will bring us into line with the European Union, but I particularly welcome all these measures so far of population policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94787	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94788	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I am also in favour of this Amendment Act and of the supplementation of the Law of Supplement for children with a final bill of law, which really introduces one newspaper that here the user can also be a stranger who has an uninterrupted permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia with at least three years before the application meets the requirements prescribed by this law. And it's certainly a new circle of rights that is to be welcomed. However, the basic question remains, in addition to this right of compensation for children, and why they are so large, that is, what is the circle of the person using them. It is noteworthy that this is the basic right of the child and that, as such, it was just considered in the previous term so that each child could receive such an allowance and that mothers as non-employees and mothers could do so. So, the circle has spread. So, it's often said that there's been a reduction in that allowance and so on. However, what was fundamental, of course, that allowance and I have no objection to it being increased. Unfortunately, it is growing slightly but what is fundamentally important and what is now being extended by this bill and that is what it is certainly to welcome. And that's what was valuable and most valuable, so when the attacks were when the allowance was cut, that was an extended circle of people who could have and make that extra. However, here I am also paying attention to something that irritates the public and which sometimes surprises some of us that we are not aware that the law is existing, please, where the state is unable to pay the commitment and to force a parent or guardian who is obliged to pay for a child, for his own child or for a adopted child, and to raise his hand as unable to do so, and to force grandparents with a small pension, so the law is here recently when it has been applied to grandparents because they have such a pension, and then it is the easiest thing to get off their pension than to deal with someone who works unreportedly or reports a minimum so that such a single contribution or an allowance, alimation is insufficient and certainly inadequate. First of all, it is not only adequate to the needs of a child, but also to the possibilities of such an unconscious parent, whose state is clearly not to this day to come to an end. Let's remember those promises about the fund, so alimony, and then they were even secured at the start of funding from the Ministry of Finance but it somehow didn't work. All in all, there were big promises, little did happen. But it is important to note that the state must have a mechanism and certainly it does not have such a weak state that it cannot end an unconscious parent. But obviously it is an obstacle both today and that grandparents, according to our positive legislation, pay you instead of such parents, instead of their own unconscious children. That is why, although this may not be directly related to the debate on this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extra for Children, but certainly with regard to the constitutional principle of which the Proposer himself calls on the family to be, that motherhood is out of special attention of the Republic of Croatia and through the Constitution that is later being discussed through the laws. But it seems to me that there should be less glorification, less mystification of women and families themselves, and more concrete acts, more concrete acts as well as ultimately what the state and its mechanisms serve. Of course, it's nice for the state to show compassion, but first of all, it's called for action. Here is the support of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children I appeal that it is urgent to suspend, amend the Family Law which grandparents are invited to therefore support their grandchildren because they cannot support themselves either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94789	Thank you. Final review of State Secretary of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94790	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to this case now in front of us, I must say that the Law on the Compensation of Children, Amendments and Supplements in the Republic of Croatia and the Member States of the European Union have a significant place in the system of support for the family, so we could also call it a general law which is exercised under the national regulations and regulations of the European Union in the coordination of the social security system. It should be pointed out that from the date of entry into full membership of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia will be obliged to coordinate all social security systems including family contributions regulated in the Republic of Croatia with the Law on Extra charge for children. In order to facilitate the implementation of the European Union rules on the coordination of systems and social security in this area, it is therefore necessary to implement certain adaptations to the Law on child allowance. This coordination concerns the European Economic Community Regulation No 1408/71 of 14 June '71. the year on the application of the social security system to persons employed and their families moving within the Community, Regulation of the Council of the European Economic Community No 574/72 of 21 March '72. the year setting out the procedure for implementing Regulation No 1408/1 of the European Economic Community on the application of the social security system for persons employed and their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 June 2004 on the coordination of the social security system of the text relating to the European Economic Area and Switzerland. According to our estimates, it is expected that compared to 230 000 existing users, the number of extras per child will increase by 4 to 5% in the first year of application of this law, including foreign citizens of child benefits under the current Law on Child Extras. Considering that in the first year following the accession of the Republic of Croatia, the request for an allowance will reach about 9 and a half to 10 000 new users for the assessment, each of these users will be entitled to an allowance for an average of two children as well as Croatian citizens, i.e. 19 to 20,000 children and, with the current average amount of an extra of 357 kuna per month, amounts to 83 million kuna per year. Therefore, the law enters into force, on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and for its implementation following the accession of the European Union to the state budget, it is necessary to provide additional 83 million kuna, as we have foreseen in the projection of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94791	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Child Supplements. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and MP Milanka Opačić. State Secretary Stjepan Adanic. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94793	Mr. President, the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives is accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94794	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment of Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94795	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Milanka's amendment, the Opacic government does not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94796	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94797	The explanation is as follows. So the subject of amending and supplementing this Act is to comply with the acquiss of the European Union, i.e. creating legal assumptions on the basis of which administrative and legal obstacles to the exercise of the relevant rights, and thus the right to pay for children to all citizens of the Member States of the European Union, upon the admission of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. This obligation is based on Article 47(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Stabilisation and Association Agreements of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and the relevant provisions of the European Union relating to the coordination of the safety system in the field and freedom of movement of workers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on child allowance is the subject of compliance with Croatian legislation and the National Population Policy, which is planned for 2008. The proposed amendment will also be taken into account. Otherwise...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94798	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94799	... this amendment addresses only part of the outstanding issues raised since the adoption of the Law on Supplements on Children in 2001 and concerning the adoption of the Family Law of 2003, their amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94800	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94801	As well as the need to comply with the newly adopted Foreign Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94802	Thank you. There's no representative. We should vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 102 votes in favour, the proposed law was unanimously passed along with the amendment adopted. We're moving on to the next point. 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 755. The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation and European integration. Proposer representative, State Secretary of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Nevio Šetić will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94804	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. Let me briefly explain the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education with the Final Proposal of the Law. This is about the following issues that need to be regulated by this law. This Law addresses the following issues, enabling children's kindergarten in the Republic of Croatia and foreign natural and legal persons. This law also harmonizes the law with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Then the concept is: "children with special needs" as a common name for children with developmental difficulties and gifted children. A provision shall then be deleted under which the founder of the childcare certificate contains information on the name of the children's kindergarten director. The provision on who can work in kindergartens is then harmonised with the provisions of the Law on primary education and the Law on secondary education. It shall also be amended to provide for the number of members of the children's kindergarten board. Then the method of prescribing the normative equipment in kindergarten is arranged. The provision on educators in kindergartens is also harmonised with the provision that preschool education is organized and conducted for children from 6 months of age until they leave for primary school. The provisions of the legislation relating to the change of the name of the ministry and the minister responsible for pre-school education are then harmonised. The provision of laws relating to the change of the name of the ministry and the Minister of Health, Labour and Social Care is also harmonised. The termological harmonisation of the provisions of the law with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Law on Social Welfare, the Law on Extra for Children, the Labour Act and the Birth Act, the leave of mothers who carry out the independent activity and the unemployed mothers. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I have here, in front of me, the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, which nomotechnically regulates, intervenes in the resolutions of this law. So I can declare that we accept the amendment to Article 13 which is amended and read, in all the provisions of the Preschool Education and Education Act 10/97. words: "Ministers of Labour and Social Care, units of local administrations and self-government, members of ethnic national communities or minorities, Ministry of Health, Minister of Health", etc. We accept it because it's a nomotechnical device and we think this is an adequate solution. Here, thank you for your attention. Well, I'll look back later if there are any objections.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94805	Thank you. The committees? Nothing. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94806	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community that discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Preschool Law with the Final Proposal of this Law at the outset I must say that it will accept the proposed amendments to this Act. Why? Preschool education includes a programme of education, health care, nutrition, and social care in kindergartens in accordance with the current 1997 law. The activity of children's kindergarten institutions is the care of preschool children from 6 months of age to school, and starts from the right of the child to various facilities and activities through different forms of care, education and childcare, and is achieved in accordance with the programme direction prescribed by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. The possibility of optimal development of the individual possibilities of each child is also realized by family and extra-family education. That is why preschool education is a vital segment in the development of child education. Preschool education is not mandatory, but it is a significant segment for every child. And those not covered by children's kindergarten programme attend the preschool programme or what is commonly called the so-called "school" in public among people. "Little school" before school. This program lasts from 70 to 150 hours. The goal of the preschool programme is primarily the socialisation and integration of children into society, in the community. The preschool education and education programme complements family education, and children learn by working and working together to ensure the child’s full motivation for education. The Croatian Government has already outlined in its plan to develop a system of education and education from 20005 to 2010 the goals of development of education and education from preschool to higher education. Significant developments have been made to achieve the objectives, i.e. Special attention is paid to the inclusion of pre-school children in pre-school institutions especially those from socially and economically vulnerable families. Already, children’s kindergarten programs cover a number of children. The current 43% that is currently included in Croatia has the goal of increasing to 60% by 2010, and those attending preschool are far higher, at this point as many as 96% of children before school are covered by this programme, and the goal is to achieve 98%. It is currently 594 kindergartens and is happy every day to increase and open new kindergartens. In the last year, as many as 15 new kindergartens have been opened in Sisak-Moslavina, Brod-Posavia and Karlovac County. The proposed amendments and additions to the laws will also allow the possibility to enable, in addition to domestic natural and legal persons, the establishment of kindergartens and foreign natural and legal persons, in line with the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union. We also know that the application of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which prescribed that cities and municipalities of the local self-government units, as units of regional self-government may be founding children's kindergartens, should therefore be amended by amending these laws and certain terms, so I would say that this law also deals with certain technical terminology and alignments with the existing laws mentioned. Here I think that in the end all of what is proposed and to improve the work in kindergartens, especially where the founders of cities, municipalities that pay particular attention to these groups of children, so the children of preschool age, that it is a good thing that the article that speaks about the number of members of the boards of directors is also a good thing that this number has increased by 5 to 7 depending on the assumed size of kindergarten. And what is also in line with the Law on primary and secondary education, where it is precisely stated in the latest amendments that cannot be raised by teachers, i.e. professional associates. Thus, according to this new proposal and in this law in amendments to the Preschool Law, it is also established in accordance with the Law on primary and secondary education, which cannot be done by persons in kindergarten or professional associate. Thus, in the current law of Article 22, it is prescribed that the minister determines in accordance with the national pedagogical standard of pre-school education and education, the size of the kindergarten depending on the number of educational groups, the number of children in the educational groups, the age of children in individual educational groups, the size of space, the normative work of the breeders, and it was not prescribed that the normative equipment of Article 6 of these amendments proposed before us, this solution has also been amended, and the question is again entrusted that the minister determines both the question of equipment and non-active means in kindergartens, so that the exact regulation of which equipment must contain each kindergarten. By decision of the Minister, I will remind all of us, from September 2006, the Pedagogical Standard Council was established, among other things for pre-school, primary and secondary education systems, which also includes in the future spatial architectural, health-hygienic, didactic and methodological assumptions for regular education and education programmes and even in kindergartens. Since the state pedagogical standard is currently in the process of adoption. It is located and can be seen on the ministry's pages, at least a proposal for the pedagogical standard. It has already been discussed by the partners collective, social partners, trade unions. We hope that after many years, it will finally be brought and made possible to make the same availability in kindergartens of a large number of children, namely those from at least 6 months to school and that the tasks set out in the development plan of this government will be achieved, and this is primarily an improvement of the child's life according to all the new modern knowledge of preschool theory and practice. So the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club supports the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Preschool Law, with the Final This Proposal of the Law, as referred to in the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94807	Thank you. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Does State Secretary Nevio Šetić want a final review? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94808	Here I would like to thank you for this debate and to mention once again that this agreement is in line with the law that our legislation complies with the law of the European Union and thus modernises its legislation. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94809	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Preschool Education and Education. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer. I'm voting on this bill. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The proposed law, together with the amendments, was adopted unanimously with 102 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94812	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the proposal for the adoption of the Law on Navigation and the ports of internal waters. There is no doubt that sailing inland waters as well as port activities in the ports of internal waters is of exceptional economic importance for the Republic of Croatia. 804 km of waterways mostly international waterways from that to the Danube as the most significant waste of 137 kilometers, speaks enough of it in favor and fully confirms that the finger is in the water, so it was a river, a connection with the whole world. The system of European waterways is extremely branched, mainly thanks to the Rayna-Maina-Dunav channel. Today, there is no wonder on the Danube to see a boat with, say, a Dutch or Swiss flag, so believe it or not, and a Panamanian. The way he came, the second question was. The advantages of river transport are high and at a low price, its only competition is pipeline transport, of course, for goods that correspond to it, therefore there are certain restrictions. The position of Croatian river ports primarily Vukovar and Osijek is almost ideal on the map of Europe, and what has in some way limited the work of these ports is slowly lost. The effects of global warming and its air-conditioning assure us, further progress, condition the lack or complete absence of ice in winter months, which then allows for all year round traffic. When it comes to the Danube, even water is not a limiting factor. It should also be noted that the war and the insecure 90s did their part. Transport almost died on the Danube, but after 2000, it began to return, which is clearly showing traffic data such as Vukovar ports from 44 thousand tonnes in 2000 to 925 and 500 tonnes in 2006. But increased and constantly growing traffic carries one danger when it comes to water protection, water flow from pollution, whether it is vessels or port facilities. The almost ideal position of Croatian river ports, primarily on the Danube and Drava, and by building a multi-purpose Danube-Sava channel and the Sava ports, compared to European inland waterways, opens up this activity of unsuspecting possibilities. Most of the Danube states are also members of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia is on the verge of joining the same which further obliges the issue of navigation and the issue of the ports of internal waters to be resolved legally in the best possible way. Customised to the legal gain of the European Union to comply with some internationally recognised obligations and practices, all in order to strengthen the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. This is particularly highlighted in Article 2 of this Act, which states the development of river transport, waterways and inland water ports are of economic interest to the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection and Article 3 of the Strategy for the Development of River Transport of the Republic of Croatia is brought by the Croatian Parliament. The second part of the proposed law addresses the issue of navigation security, i.e. the conditions and measures to be met by vessels, crews on board vessels, waterways and ports. In any event, Article 12, which states that it is prohibited to discard, spill or release waste, objects or substances that may endanger the safety of navigation, life and human health or to pollute the environment. In fact, from time to time you can read or hear news of an oil stain usually of unknown origin seen on a waterway. Sometimes spills occur by chance, usually by neglect occurs primarily in ports, ports, but some shipowners can drop waste oil somewhere on the waterway, perhaps under cover of the night, on the way upriver is usually all to look for the culprit in the wrong, or second place. The truth of that occurs more rarely, but it happens. In detail, all matters relating to nationality, identification, registration and erasure of the vessel have been resolved further. In Article 76, the vessel that has acquired the Croatian statehood has the right and obligation to hold the flag of the Republic of Croatia with the emphasis that the obligations are also carried by boats if they sail on inland waters classified as international or interstate. When it comes to waterways, ports and ports, the definition of their status, management, novelty with existing port administrations and the agency is the establishment of river security, services and the establishment of a national and S centre. The Agency for Inland Waterways shall be renamed to the Waterways Agency by the port authority for the provision of public service when it comes to waterways. The issue of the operation and arrangements of transport shall be addressed in a way that liberalises the transport market by inland waterways, establishing the principle of free transport arrangements, including the transport of vessels between ports in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. In the context of harmonisation with the regulation, or acts of the European Union, and ultimately has another advantage. The fact is that the state of the water park of the boaters, river boaters, is all but unsatisfactory and in good numbers on a safe path to the hatches. The whole or almost entire fleet is pretty old. The reconstruction takes time and resources, and the burdens of course will not wait and should not be lost, because they are difficult to return when it comes to certain ports. Or some types of boats in the Republic of Croatia are almost gone, let's say by travellers and those of smaller tourists for, say, tours. The law also solves the issue of sailing accidents, the collision of vessels, the extraction of sinking things. The law also introduces the name port captainium instead of the present port captainship with the definition of their jurisdiction, including inspection controls. This Law on navigation and ports of inland water is unique for this activity, which is in any case a major advantage and challenge for all who are in the whole system and as an incentive for foreign investment. In order to carry out port activities, concessions shall be abolished and authorisation shall be introduced which shall prevent the possibility of fixing the situation for several years, and this fixation shall otherwise prevent the possibility of rapid and faster development. This Law harmonizes regulations with the acquis of the European Union, unites rules on the security of navigation by a single law, guarantees the development of waterways and ports of internal waters. And one more thing. It promotes development and a very significant economic branch, fosters and education for callings and occupations related to this activity because they are clearly deficiting. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94813	Thank you. SDP representative club, respected representative Mato Gavran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94814	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a law harmonising our legislation with legal gains, one I would say is a very important law and I am sorry that there is no one here tonight from the government's representatives, and apparently this speed at which we are solving all these legislative proposals. And the SDP club, regardless of this fact, will accept this Law, we believe that it well regulates the areas in which it is concerned, and ultimately the harmonisation of these two laws so far, and in one place when we have this very important problem covered, it is certain that it will be easier for all those who act in the same way. It is unquestionable that the Republic of Croatia is rich in water, our rivers, and also in waterways with a very rich tradition of sailing. Many of our shipmen, I will say for Davors known throughout Europe, are known and appreciated and happily seen in many shipping companies, and it is freely said that these 804 kilometres of waterways in the inner waters are extremely well known for them and that there are no unknowns for them as well as on many other rivers across Europe. Unfortunately, despite the fact that river transport is extremely competitive and economically unquestionable and that today it can safely be reached by many European destinations from Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Duisburg and many others, we use it little in the Republic of Croatia for the simple reason that, unfortunately, the burden carried is very little, and this fact on the other hand best paints the state of our economy, its economic power. This is also best seen in a table on page 2 in which only two ports that are northern so river in Osijek on the Drava River have almost doubled the amount of traffic transported from 2000 to 264 thousand tonnes to 464 thousand. And Vukovar, who because of known problems, because of the war, because of the disabling of unemployment and everything else with 44 thousand tons in 2000, came up with almost a thousand tons and millions of tons, probably this year. And that's what encourages it. However, it worries that the other two ports located on the Sava River, which is Sisak and Slavonski Brod, are not only stagnating but I would say and failing. And that's a sign of what we do. No Danube-Sava channel, no procedure in this sense will improve the amount of goods transported if all together, regardless of which government was and whose government was we do not make a huge effort to further develop this part of the Republic of Croatia. So it is unquestionable that we must make huge efforts, not as the writer in the context of this law has said further efforts towards strengthening internal navigation as a whole. This law unites I would say the previous two laws and, in a good sense, solves the essential items of quality planning, from the obligation to adopt a strategy to develop river transport, from the safety of navigation, from very clear rules that all those who use inland waters and ports must adhere to. It also speaks clearly of governance, very precisely setting the hierarchy, which, unfortunately, has not been the case so far. It's about current port captains, waterway agencies, and it's about port administrations. And we don't have any more serious grudges here. But what we think is that this law does not work out well, and in the implementation we could have disagreements and cause quite a lot of problems is the indeterminateness of the law when it comes to another very important segment, so I am sorry for the fact that there are no representatives of the government. It's a question of relations with Croatian waters. In fact, from Articles 103 to 107 in the chapter on waterways, ports and ports, it is clear what is in place for whom. However, the strategy for developing the river transport of the Republic of Croatia by the Government must be dismembered to say in the medium term the development of waterways and ports of internal waters with clear planned costs and the proposed funding method for a period of five to ten years. These plans are mutually coordinated with the plans of the Croatian Waters, or those of the institutions that manage the water areas. What's the problem? First of all, it is not clear who is responsible for the exploitation of gravel and sand because it is obviously the biggest problem we face on the Sava River. Almost identical problem on Drava. Perhaps less expressed in the Danube for known reasons, because of its width, these quantities may not be seen so much on the water face. But when it comes to the Sava River, especially today, we have almost waterfalls on certain parts of the Sava River. And it's especially in the downstream area because of the overexploitation of gravel and sand where that wealth is expressed. So on the downstream part of Slavonski Šamec, so somewhere halfway between Župje and Slavonski Šamec. We have an apparent drop in the water face by one foot and one foot, and on average it's on the upstream part of almost 70 centimeters. What does that mean? That approximately to that extent, or to that extent, the level of underground waters in the surrounding area is reduced. And that reflects again on agriculture and everything else that we all know very much about. So, if it is in this or in the Water Act that we expect it to undergo changes and alignments with this law as well as a number of others. If this interrelationship is not arranged, I dare say on behalf of the club that Sava is a sacrificial river or that, in the further course of exploitation, especially given the capacities visible to us on the right bank of the Sava River, there will be an increasing number of buffers and refulers and all other devices so as to say that those preparing for the fierce exploitation of the Sava will be further devastated and everything will only be unprepared for safe and long-term navigation as already the nomenclature itself within the categorization of the waterway is said. Of course, I believe it is urgent to take another step, which is to treat Sava as a unique river. Both through the Sava Commission and through an interstate agreement as quickly as possible to regulate these relations, otherwise Article 109, which in the Agency for Waterways, gave maintenance of the depth of the waterway and safety, or the marking of the waterway, will not be possible. There is another additional dualism here, which is the relationship between the Croatian Waters, which is the basis of the Water Act for the exploitation of gravel and sand, or the award of concessions to concessionaries, they should be exploiting the area between the waterway and the coast on the basis of existing legislation. And the Waterway Agency as it says here in Article 109 for the waterway. It is not clear how this problem will be solved. Well, here's a suggestion if it's not already settled by this law that it is certainly resolved by any amendments to the Water Act or by a new law, but that remains for those who will come behind us in the next term. There are a few more doubts with us at the SDP club. It is not clear what the writer, in the light of this law, wanted to say when he said, quote, "The system of concessions in the ports of internal waters has proved to be ineffective in the conditions of modern dynamic business and the fixation of economic relations for ten to thirty years, which is achieved by concessions, represents a brake in the extremely rapid development of economic relations and changes in the type and quantity of burdens that are common nowadays.". In addition, how the internal navigation in the Republic of Croatia expects major changes that we can discuss, which will significantly change the status of this transport branch and the function of individual ports, the construction of the Danube-Sava channel, the improvement of the airworthiness of the Sava, the construction of... railway lines to Rijeka, etc. It would be detrimental to concession relations to cement economic relations in ports for many years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Isn't this an announcement and a privatization of onions and all the things that this law has never been told anywhere? Well, if nothing else, then we expect when there is no more, I stress again the Ministry's representative that through the press or in other ways we get an answer to the question. In addition, Article 38 discusses floating facilities. These are the most common rafts on both Drava, Danube and Sava. The article says that floating facilities placed on internal waters shall be placed in accordance with the location permit or detailed spatial planning of the arrangements and in accordance with the rules on water. The question arises, what about existing floating facilities that are already existing on internal waters and for whose area or location there is neither spatial planning documentation, and then it is not possible to satisfy this legal solution as stated in this article, so we believe that this should certainly be corrected. Furthermore, Article 139 of this Act, paragraph 139 of this Law, states that the port administration may set up a company owned by the Ministry in order to carry out the activities referred to in point 12 of Article 138 of this Act with the prior consent of the Ministry. I hope it's tipfeller, Mr. President, so here might be a suggestion. The applicant probably counted on paragraph 11 of the previous law. In any case, in addition to these observations, the SDP club will support this law, once again, I stress, in the belief that everything I have said in the name of the club will be incorporated into some other legal solutions aimed at improving relations and the passivity of relations both in the ports and in the internal waters and in the roads in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-26-0.u94815	Thank you very much. Warn this of this tipfeller. Representative of the Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. And a representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. She's gone, so she's losing her word. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Final proposal of the Law on navigation and ports of internal waters. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary Branko Bačić accepts any proposed amendments to the Legislative Committee that become an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 101 votes for the proposed law has been passed along with the amendments adopted.
