ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85145	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 25th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, vice president, vice president and present members of the government. You received a record of the 24th session at the session. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 24th session in the text as it was written. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I included 6 new points in the final draft agenda – - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Rotterdam Convention in the procedure of previous consent to certain dangerous chemicals and pesticides in international trade with the Final Proposal for Law P.Z.E. Second — Proposal for a Law confirming the European Convention on the Legal Protection of Services based on conditional access and services that provide conditional access to the final proposal of the P.Z.E. Law. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Control of the State Border of P.Z.E. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement, first reading. Proposal for the Attorney General's Law for people with disabilities, first reading. And a proposal for an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system for the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia with a report on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda referred to in points 6 to 15, points 19 and 21 and points 26 to 28, which are proposed to adopt by emergency procedure. These are – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Turkey on Social Insurance, an emergency procedure. Second – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Guarantee Contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a "Bravka bypass project" with the Final Proposal for the Law. Third – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for a European Union nuclear security assistance programme in Croatia for 2005. Fourth – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the National PHARE Programme for 2006. Fifth – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Supplemental Protocol to Geneva Conventions of 12 August '49. the year on the additional sign of recognition, Protocol 3. Sixth – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an International Convention on the Restraint of Part of Nuclear Terrorism. Seven – Proposal for a Food Act P.Z.E., emergency procedure. Proposal for a Veterinary Act, emergency procedure. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on fertilisers and soil enhancers P.Z.E. Proposal for a Gas Market Act P.Z.E. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on humanitarian mine action, emergency procedure. Proposal for a Law on Student Assembly and other student organisations, emergency procedure. Proposal for a Law confirming the Rotterdam Convention, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Proposal for a Law confirming the European Convention on the Legal Protection of Services, emergency procedure P.Z.E. I Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border of P.Z.E. I note that the laws referred to in the final draft agenda under points 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 26, 27 and 28 shall bear the P.Z.E. mark as an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161. We don't vote on the rules of procedure. These are the proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the International Convention on the Prevention of Part of Nuclear Terrorism, Proposal for a Food Law, Proposal for a Law on Veterinary Law, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on fertilising and improving soils, Proposal for a Law on the Market in Gas, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Rotterdam Convention, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on Legal Protection of Services and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85146	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HSP Club, we have an objection to the Proposal for a Law on Student Assembly and other student organisations to go through an emergency procedure. In fact, it is only a declarative law that does not solve what should be resolved at all, which is the relationship between student associations and the student assembly, the way the student choir works and the overall procedure related to the implementation and application of this Act. We discussed this yesterday at a session of the Legislative Committee, and it is obvious that there is no need to rush to an emergency procedure because this law can be passed during this session because the first reading should take place in the first 14 days, and the second after that break, because this does not serve anything. I must also appeal on behalf of the HSP Club to the Prime Minister regarding the Food and Veterinary Act even though it has a P.Z.E. code. It is an incomprehensible literal half translation and if we bring this in then it will be the twilight of the legal profession in Croatia and the twilight of the work of this assembly. I've never seen anything so bad in my life.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85147	Please only limit yourself to suggestions under emergency procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85148	That's the translation. He doesn't have to say that, Mr. President, and you, as President of the Parliament, should react to these things. I've never seen anything so disastrous like this before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85149	Please don't do that. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85150	Thank you, Mr. President. Although allow me, you said OPZ shouldn't...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85151	We can't discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85152	But allow only two sentences. This isn't just a controversial remark. This is a basic violation of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85153	My colleague Kolar!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85154	This isn't PZ, because it's not easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85155	My colleague Kolar! Now we've got to do with the Rules of Procedure just...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85156	I know, but I'm warning you this is a false interpretation because it's not consistent. He doesn't have all the elements of the PZ. It'd be good...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85157	When there's a debate, then you'll be able to point that out.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85158	Yeah, but it's too late. We'd better go to the first reading...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85159	You can't now that... Well, you can't when it's article 161. Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85160	Well, if there's any good will of the promoter, that's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85161	You can't...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85162	I only appeal to the consciousness of all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85163	Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85164	But it's inadmissible what's going on here right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85165	Here you go, Mr Pankretić! ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So we have an objection to an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Student Choir. Now let's go to the vote. Please, let's determine the quorum before! Gentlemen, please, and ladies, come on! Thank you. The result? There are 80 MPs present. We have a quorum. We can vote. First. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Turkey on Social Insurance? Please, let's get on with it! We can vote. The result? 79 for, and one abstention established application of the emergency procedure. Second. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the confirmation of the public contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "Bravka bypass project"? Let's get on with it! We can vote. The result? With 78 votes in favour and one abstention, this bill goes according to emergency procedure. Third. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law attesting the financing agreement between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the European Union's nuclear security assistance programme? We can vote. The result? With 77 votes for, unanimously established and the application of an emergency procedure. Fourth. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission for the National PHARE Programme for 2006? Vote! Please, let's vote! The result? 77 for and one abstention and this bill goes according to emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act confirming the Supplemental Protocol to the Geneva Conventions of 12 August '49. about further identification, (Protocol III)? Please, let's get on with it! We can vote. The result? 73 for four abstentions. This law goes into the agenda according to emergency procedures. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian mine action? Please, let's get on with it! We can vote. The result? With 75 for and 4 abstentions and this bill goes by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Student Assembly and other student organisations. That's where the HSP rep club put it. Please, let's get on with it! We can vote. The result? With 63 for, 3 abstentions and 21 against and, this final bill included in the agenda by emergency procedure. The written objection to the agenda I proposed with the invitation to the session was filed on 19 March this year by the HNS Representatives' Club. It is about the fact that the Club of Representatives of the CNS asked me to put it on the agenda in accordance with Article 6. Government report on the state of supply. I immediately and asked the Government to deliver this Report in accordance with the Act on the Management of Stocks, so that when and during this session when the Government delivers this Report, it will be immediately included in the draft agenda. There were no other complaints written on the agenda that I proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda is in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, considered adopted. In accordance with Article 203 of the Rules of Procedure, the objection can now be made only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session, under paragraph 29 of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on socially encouraged housing, first reading. Under point 30, the Proposed Law on Advocates for Persons with Disabilities was included, first reading. And under point 31. Proposal for an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system for the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall situation in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia with a report on the state of defence preparations in the Republic of Croatia. Any of the MPs object to including any of these proposed items in the agenda? There isn't. In accordance with Rule 205 of the Rules of Procedure, I should now publish the established agenda. I suggest that according to our usual practice if you agree not to read the full agenda but just to announce that the agenda set out is the way I suggested it in the final draft agenda. Thank you very much. Now would be the turn of point - 4. Proposal for a Family Law Supplement Act – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, first reading of P.Z. No. 609 But according to the position of the Club of Representatives of the HSS Proposer of the Law, and according to the proposal of the Committee, the parent committee. We will postpone the debate on this Bill proposal until the Government submits the announced Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Family Law, with the Government to include the proposed additions of representatives of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85168	Let it count because they don't have many of these keys again, I suggest.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85169	Okay. He's 85. So, any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other points proposed? No, I don't. These four? No, I don't. O P.Z.E. The proposal? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session. On the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Student Assembly and other student organisations, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 636 Representative Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85171	Well, here's the deal, Mr. President. If four, five years ago Croatia had been charged with an organised criminal enterprise, the whole country would have been on its feet. Today we see that even the Prime Minister doesn't want to comment on this new course of events, just tossing out we have a prosecutor, we have a lawyer, we're a legal state. The truth is, he seems to want to push the case under the carpet. I would like us to be informed of the new developments and what the Croatian Government does besides withdrawing under quotes, in front of those qualifications. Clearly, Croatia's strategy must be true, painful or brilliant, but it must always be true and I would so much like to be informed today about this under quotes "current developments in the course of events". ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85172	Order! Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85173	Dear Mr. President, I also ask on behalf of the Croatian party's club that the government is finally showing what it is doing and what it has done to bring down such monstrous accusations. We know that there was a situation that was an attempt to get involved in the process through the friends of the court, we know what the situation is with our generals who are difficult to obtain documentation and we have no knowledge of what kind of legal, political, diplomatic and other measures the Croatian Government is taking in terms of bringing down these monstrous indictments and I am asking on behalf of the Croatian Party's club the right to contact the Government and to say what it is, because as far as we know it is nothing essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85174	Okay, I'll pass on your proposals and opinions to the Prime Minister who, as you know, is on an official visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then we'll get the information we need. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's go determine the quorum. Please, let's get on with it. Who forgot to get involved. Mr. Representative Krešimir Cosic please join in. Mr. Bagaric, please join us. Quarum 81, good. We can. In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 25th session to the next points. 1. Final proposal for a law supplementing the Insurance Statutory Act with an increased duration, second reading. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Companies Act and the payment of pensions on the basis of individual capitalised savings, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 661. 3. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions. 4. Report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union. 5. Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period until 1 January to 31 December 2006. And six. Report on air pollution measures taken from the Sisak oil refinery between 2004 and February 2007. Now we would only go on the agenda and discuss it at that session that would begin on April 18th and beyond. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of any of the proposed points There isn't. [[Intruder: No.]] Addition of the agenda established. We're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85177	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you forgive me, but I understand from your answer that you will propose a hearing and review of the decision on consent for Mr. Branimir Glavas' detention in a hasty procedure because you have not spoken, you have not answered me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85178	Please, I'm asking you for this now. We'll come back to this later. Any of the MPs have any objections? There isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85179	If we're gonna go back, fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85180	Now we're doing the agenda. We're going to the vote. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Pension Fund Act? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 80 votes for and 2 abstentions, this law goes according to emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 81 votes for and 2 abstentions and this law goes according to emergency procedure. Who is in favour of applying the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Road Reconstruction Project II.? The result? With 80 votes in favour, two abstentions and one against and this law goes according to emergency procedure. Fourthly, who is in favour of applying the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland on the implementation of military exercises, training and support of the host state? What, vote? The result? With 77 votes for and 1 abstention and this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 64 votes in favour, four abstentions and 17 against and this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Area and Seats of Violent Courts? Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 61 votes for, 5 abstentions and 18 against and this law is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85181	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I answered the word. I had several suggestions which were partly respected but presented a proposal in front of the HDSSB club to include in the agenda the debate and review of the Croatian Parliament's decision on consent to the detention of Mr Branimir Glavas. In short, I put out why. But you didn't answer. You didn't even comment, and I realized that you, as president of the Croatian Parliament, accepted the arguments why the HDSSB Club is asking for an urgent procedure to include this point in the agenda of this session of the Croatian Parliament, before it was accepted that the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and that more so as to make decisions, the relevant decisions, and I believe that this will happen in the course of today because I have requested that it be counter-constitutional and counter-constitutional action of the institutions of the legal system that Mr. Glava, until decision-making is released. You didn't comment on it, nor was it taken to the point of view. So, once again, I ask that this point be placed on the agenda of this session of the Croatian Parliament and that it be discussed during today and after the meeting of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. And I ask that these sessions and each other's committee go quickly, or they be convened immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85182	That's what I'm going to propose after these two committees are held. Then I'll put, depending on their result then I'll put that or no, then I'll put your proposal to make, that Parliament make a decision on including this point in the agenda by emergency procedure. Please, Agent Drmic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85183	I know you're not in a hurry, but I would warn you that our colleague is currently in prison illegally and illegally. I'd like to ask you to explain some of those deadlines. You said the committee sessions and committees were called immediately. I see my colleague Sesvetchan is sitting here. I don't know if he's awake, whether he's sleeping or maybe he doesn't understand what it means right now, so I'd ask you to set clear deadlines and explain what it means right now. Because the man's in jail, and I don't think that's a joke. As much as it looks to someone like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85184	It means right now. It's clear to everyone and... Now that this one begins, once this session continues, the Committee president will one and the other will schedule his session and hold it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're going to a debate. What? ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's discuss the points of the agenda: Ladies and gentlemen, let's get involved. Please determine the quorum. The result? 81. In accordance with Rule 204 of the Rules of Procedure, I will propose the addition of the agenda of the 25th session to the following points: 1. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the Amendment and Complementary and Accession of the Central European Free Trade Treaty, the Emergency Procedure, 2. Report on the work of the Advocate General for 2006, 3. Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2006, 4. Report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality in 2006, 5. Annual report on the work of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency and on the state and achievement of the principles and objectives of telecommunications market regulation in the Republic of Croatia for 2006, 6. Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2005. Article 205 first lays down an emergency procedure. Only one law has been proposed, and this is the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on Amendment, Complementary and Accession to the Central European Free Trade Treaty, with the final proposal for a law. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? There isn't. Please vote. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 80 votes for and 4 abstentions established under the urgent procedure of this law. Any of the representatives object to the objection to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85187	Mr. President, the committee still hasn't been chosen by the relevant committee, the Board of Appointing, has not chosen a member, has not chosen a member to replace Mr. Vice Vukov. I'd be begging the SDP gentlemen to finally give us one member, because we just don't have a quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85188	That's right. So, the president. SDP club please one, suggest one member. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our work at the 25th session of the Croatian Parliament. On the agenda, the daily clean order is divided into benches. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I must remind you that on 8 March we sent you a request to ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a report on the state of supply for 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006. Since you did not put that item on the agenda of this session on March 19th, we objected to the proposed agenda of the 25th session and, in the light of this objection, you said that you would put that item on the agenda when the Government delivered the report. On the basis of which you referred to the Government of the Republic or the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 15 March, you requested this report and since it has been 40 days since your request to the Prime Minister and the Government has not delivered the report, I kindly ask you to send a rush to the Prime Minister in order to comply with the law and deliver the requested report to the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85191	When the government delivers an opinion, then I will consider whether there are business conditions for proposing, including in the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please engage to determine the quorum. The result? There are 86 MPs present, and we have a quorum. In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure the addition of the agenda of the 25th session to the following points: 1. Proposal for a law on bicaid preparations with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z.E. Number 678. 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on humanitarian demining, emergency procedure. 3. Proposal for a law on environmental protection, first reading, P.Z.E. number 680, 4. Proposal for a decision to declare the National Work Protection Day, 5. Environmental report in the Republic of Croatia for the period 1997 to 2005, 6. Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2006 and 7. Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2006. Article 205 states first in an emergency procedure. Two laws and a proposal for a law on biocidal products and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on humanitarian demining have been proposed. On the proposal for a law on biocidal products because P.Z.E., we do not vote on an emergency procedure. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on humanitarian mine action? There isn't. Please vote. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? The result? With 92 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against this law goes by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? ... In the agenda of the other suggested points? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Representative of the Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85193	I ask you kindly and earnestly to put my act around these late model Cardinal Kuharic and the President of the Republic in order if you can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85194	Dear Mr. President, we don't think it's right for your decision to interrupt this session and continue on the 16th of May as you announced last night, because you are thus avoiding the current morning, the debate... could have, calling a regular session because of the fact that the session when it was first called was called, it was called precisely from the date and how it was held. I therefore propose on behalf of the Croatian Party Club that... /The speaker be turned off and re-enabled./... to end the 25th session. Warn them that...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85195	I don't know who that is. Maybe somewhere...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85196	... 26th session, and this way you do it systematically to avoid the current morning. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85197	The sitting ends when the agenda is exhausted and the agenda is not exhausted. Therefore, this session is interrupted, and the next session continues for days 16, 17, 18, 23, 24, 25, 30 and 31 May and 1 June, and then after we have absorbed that period, we will decide again if we will continue the 25th session...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85198	You couldn't finish a single session then.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85199	Please, let's get involved! Please quorum. 83. It works, it works, it just needs to be pressed right. How much is it? 83. Okay. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 25th session to the next points. 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Emergency Procedure, 2. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development, second reading, P.Z.E. 3. Final proposal of the Arms Act, third reading, P.Z.E. 4. Final proposal of the Tourism Service Act, second reading, P.Z.E. 5. Proposal for a law on spatial planning and construction, first reading, P.Z.E. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, First Reading, 7. “ The Bible’s Viewpoint, ” 5 / 8 Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of two members of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia, 9. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, 10. State and management of stock stocks for 2000 to 20006 years, with individual annual reports and financial indicators, 11. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. Under the urgent procedure, only one law is proposed, and this is the proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this bill? There isn't. In the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of this draft law, on the Convention, on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities? Is that the bill? That's all. ... [[/Intruder: That's all the bill is about?]] There isn't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please vote! Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? ... Confirming the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Faculty Protocol with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, let's get on with it! Please vote! The result? With 100 votes in favour and one abstention of this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? Any other points? Thank you. The completion of the agenda has been established. Now we're going to the vote. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, that's what you'll get, you'll get your word later. Now we're going to, once we have a vote on the debated agenda points. No breaks. There's no vote. We're going to the rest of the proposed agenda. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You'll get your word when the time comes. It is very precise and clear in the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the bill to be followed by an urgent procedure is being discussed. That's what we discussed. Second. Any objections to the other points in the proposed agenda? That's what we discussed. Now we're going to this third point at the vote. ... Oh, that'll come in handy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Second, if I knew what you... You can't do anything else now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When we vote, then after we vote these final points of the agenda that have been discussed, then you will get the word. Now we're going to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking the committee's presidents to schedule meetings on the agenda for which the agenda has been updated on Tuesday or Wednesday. So, about these draft laws and about these motions decisions. But about seven of these bill proposals so that by the end of the session, we can discuss at this session all the points that are on the agenda next week. Everything. All and that, in that second part of the session, on 30, 31 May and 1 June, to discuss and vote, and these points that will be, which have entered into the proposed agenda or part of the bar so that we have that, on 1 June, we have discussed practically all the points of the agenda for which there are formal assumptions that would then end the session of the twenty-fiveth session because the agenda would be exhausted and completed with all the points for which there are business assumptions. Then they would schedule the next 20th and 6th June and have had it on the days when the state holidays had until 13 July 2007 when the regular session in this part of the parliament was completed. So on Wednesday, we will continue to discuss the Attorney General's Report on Children's Representative Alenka Kosisa Chicin Shain first, Ivo Banac second on behalf of clubs etc. and according to the agenda as well here report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, etc. And then we'd start to discuss these proposed agenda points that are now on the agenda as far as we get and the second part in the rest. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on Wednesday, Wednesday. Now, Mr. Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85201	Mr. President, of course we tried to react at the beginning of the proposal for an addition to the agenda. You've probably got a proposal on Wednesday for a conclusion signed by 44 MPs, so we're interested in this request for an emergency procedure proposal for a conclusion on the government's report where... Proposal for a conclusion on the report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85202	I can't. It's a spell. We're tough. It's a little bit of a skill. Proposal for a conclusion on...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85203	...the government report, on implementation only a little, on the implementation of measures on the occasion of the Assembly's conclusion of 12 June 2003. It is about the division of Croatia into statistical regions. We've also warned multiple times...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85204	Peace, please! Peace, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85205	... that the State Statistics Institute has announced by its act of 27 March this year in the "National Journal" that Croatia is divided into 3 statistical regions. We've reacted in a number of ways. One agent, Lesar. We also had a press release today. We have the signatures of 44 MPs. You have hope in front of you now and the complete text of the proposal conclusion. We're only asking when it's going to be included. Because the request is for an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85206	A colleague in new acts I've received, this proposal for a conclusion. In accordance with Article 204, one, two, three, four, the President of the Assembly is obliged to propose an addition of the agenda when requested during the session in writing to 1/3 of the total number of representatives of the Assembly. So if that is the case, if that's the proposal for a conclusion is requested and supported by 1/3 of the MPs, then I'll put it on the agenda. But as far as it is, the secretary tells me it's not. 1/3 of all representatives of the total number of representatives. And it's not even requested. That's why.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85207	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the work of the 25th session. Ms. Milanka Opacic on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85208	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP Club, I ask you to interrupt the session of the Parliament and call Mr. Kirin's Home Secretary here to get answers to some questions. In fact, in the paper this morning, Minister Kirin made an open threat to the SDP, and I ask you to call here Minister Kirin to answer our question, which is why he abuses the position of Minister of the Interior to deal with political indifferences. Likewise, we are looking for an answer to his question, or our question, which is why the police and he at the head of the police do not pursue organised crime rather than pursue a political party. And finally, the question is, if the police minister is speaking this publicly about having misused his position to get some data from the server, the question is how much freedom our citizens have on one of the freest media like the Internet. So, I ask you here to call Minister Kirin to answer our question as to why as police minister abuses his position and publicly announces a deal with the SDP as his political inexperience.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85209	Thank you. I have no idea what you're talking about. I will pass on the request from the SDP's representative club to the Government and the Minister of the Interior. However, this does not mean that we will not continue to work because daily events or what is happening outside this assembly should not automatically affect the work of the Parliament. The Parliament is completely autonomous, he's doing his job, and if the executive authority needs to call for responsibility, we'll call her. My answer is like this. We will now request and inform of your request and the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior. The government is meeting today in Virovitica. When he comes and if he comes, it'll be my call and the rest we'll wait and see how things develop. We're going to the agenda. ... And what else do you know how to do? .../The noise in the hall./... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, let us allow our colleagues in peace to take advantage of their right not to attend a session of the Parliament. ... Do you have any other ideas besides that? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If it's just ideas, then they're very weak. .../The noise in the hall./... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let someone come from the Parliament's secretariat that we can without it affecting our work as a Parliament, to inform the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior about the club's request, so we are obliged to do so, and we continue our work. ... I don't know either, I said I had no idea. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, my colleagues' response to SDP's request was that I had no idea what they were talking about. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But that I will inform the Government and the Prime Minister, or the Prime Minister, of this request. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] What else can I do, colleagues? If you think I can, let me know. ... We're going to continue the session. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85210	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving the MPs to ask the government or a single member of the government for the current morning. We all know the procedure very well. First respected representative, Ratko Gajica. Here you go. He's gone. Let's move on. Second Honored Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer the question to Mr. Vukelic, Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Mr. Minister, it is known that, in 2003, at the time of the handover of the authorities, since the 11th, 12th month, the former government has decided to launch bankruptcy over the "Viktor Lenac Shipyard". I ask you to answer me why this government ended the bankruptcy procedure based on the reshuffle programme offered by domestic investors?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85212	Minister of Economy and Labour Branko Vukelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85213	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Lady and Gentlemen, the Honorable Parliamentary Representative. This question could be a very short and simple answer because the government's policy is not to send into bankruptcy but to create conditions for companies and companies in Croatia and businesses to operate normally. But maybe at first still... In 2003 or rather, the situation that Victor Lenac has hit since 2002. [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]] It was a shipbuilding site until then that was positive all the time for the car to go downhill in 2002 and that ten days practically after the 2003 Parliament elections, Viktor Lenac went into bankruptcy with debt, claims over a billion kuna of which 500 million kunas were government claims and 300 million kunas in fact claims from the Ministry of Finance were based on the guarantees issued, there were unpaid taxes of contributions. It should also be said that, with the beginning of 2004, the "Vicor Lenac" shipyard was practically in bankruptcy without any employees' capacity, so in a very difficult and unexplainable situation and what actually started it together, it should be said, along with the resolution ministries, government and employees, it was actually the battle for the survival of "Vicor Lenca" to get out of the crisis. For many reasons, this government has stood behind Victor Lenac. First of all, because it is a shipyard that has practically 110 years of tradition, because it has trained professional labour, because it is a shipyard that performs repairs, change of boats, construction of a Shore platform, jobs that can be said by our shipowners and shipyards in Croatia have a need for such services at about 50 million dollars. If there were no Victoria Lenca business, these services would be done elsewhere outside Croatia. Therefore, it had a shipyard, it had a market, it had a professional workforce, it had to find a way out of this situation. On this job, the entire government team worked, and Vice-President Polancec, Minister of Finance Shuker, my ministry, with co-ordination with the prime minister, and I must say that for the pleasure of both workers and all of us today, we can talk about the fact that one of the programmes has come out of bankruptcy, that the Victoria Lenac shipyard today has its chance, has its own perspective, and that is also to be said that this project has been adopted with cooperation and with the full support of our domestic companies. It should be said that first of all, it was necessary to resolve the problems of the credentials, foreign creditors who wanted to discuss the property of Victor Lenco in order to settle their claims, and that there was a solution here with the "Oljenik" to buy those claims with full support, and that I would like, the union of employees who stood hard in the defense of "Viktor Lenca" and that it was in fact in a position that tanker navigation from Zadar and the oil shipyard could therefore practically enter the "Vicor Lenac" as owners and that support was given to such a programme and by the Croatian government to in some way provide and they made a commitment, and the government asked it to retain employment and all workers in "Vicor Lenac" to invest in technology, in "Vicor Lenac" and to continue to do so in the market for such services and demand. Today, in the world, there is a lack of these shipbuilding facilities that are remounted, in which ships or ship changes are carried out and for "Viktor Lenac" along with this... Oil and tanker navigation from Zadar can say that there is indeed a great chance that not only does it retain existing capacity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85214	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85215	Here, so I'm starting to conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85216	No, you don't. Time's up. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85217	There's one more sentence left.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85218	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85219	Well, Mr. Minister, I'm certainly happy with the answer, but that's a little bit important. It's far more important that the workers of Victor Lance are satisfied, and everyone... read also in "Free Dalmatia" from a statement by the Working Council of the Shipyard "Viktor Lenac". [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85220	Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85221	Thank you, Mr. President. I was going to ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor, but since this is a question I believe only the prime minister can answer, I'm asking the prime minister. On behalf of the dead, wounded as well as on behalf of four to five thousand of my comrades, I ask you when you will finally publish a list of Croatian defenders on the internet so that everyone can see who are the intruders on that list, which is why Croatian defenders are ashamed and frustrated by our number of 500 thousand defenders. So I make it clear that I am repeating my question: when will you publicly publish a list of defenders with their points on the Internet?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85222	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85223	Mr. Representative, we will announce when all defense associations agree with this request of yours because there are a large majority of those who are against it. Therefore, we want a consensus on the defenders, we do not want to politicise. And when all the defense associations agree with that, and I hope you accept this view that it's not good for you or for us to impose. When defense organizations agree, we'll publish.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85224	Representative Zeljko Kurtov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85225	Mr. Prime Minister, I see you really don't understand what I'm asking. You're not protecting the defenders or the defense association, you're protecting the defenders, you're protecting those other intruders amongst the defenders. As a result, part of the cake that the defenders need to share with each other is reduced to crumbs. And that's exactly what frustrated all the defenders, and believe me, in association defenders who are in associations think the same thing. But if some presidents of the association are bought, that doesn't mean they represent the interests of the defender. I really thank you for this answer because I didn't expect you to understand this. I ask you for a written reply, the date on which a list of all defenders of the Republic of Croatia will be published.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85226	Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85227	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, members of the government. A question for Mr. Prime Minister. One of the burning problems in Croatia is corruption. This is indicated by the European Union, which is witnessed in everyday life and in Croatian citizens. Even the government is calling for a fight against her. How honest that call would be to talk. Corruption is present in all segments of society, but corruption is particularly dangerous in the tops of the state government. It is thus a public secret that most of the big business where the country's client is given or won beyond the tender or even more frequently by fixing the tender. In general, the pyramid of road construction is known. In order not to make everything else on the general claims, it is best to take a concrete case. It's about building a state road Galženica-kvor Zadar 2. Although it wasn't in the plan to build it, it was subsequently included in the plan, but that's not the most important. More importantly, the price of that road with 250 million kuna has increased precisely through the fixed bids to 450 million kuna. So 200 million kunas more or 27 million euros more than was planned at the outset. So EUR 26 million someone put in their pocket, wallet or deposited in their account. That's the new 4 to 5 Ships Splitts. The competent state authorities have established abuses of about 12 million kunas in connection with illegal exploitation of quarrys, but that seems to be just a pebble in the entire mosaic of illegality and corruption in connection with the construction of this road. Question: What does the government intend to do on this particular case in all light of a new crime case.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85228	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85229	Mr. Representative, as in any case, in this case that you mentioned, which I do not know more, the Government will examine your allegations and you will receive an answer in writing. What I can say in this case is that there is a firm determination with the government and with all the resolution ministries. And also through the new Public Procurement Act that we agree with the European Union to do everything in the public procurement sector so that it is extremely transparent and there are no malfeasances like there were in the last government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85230	Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85231	Nothing compared to the last government. If there's ever been a malfeasance, then there is today. And this testifies to the price of a road that jumps from 250 million to 450, and they say it will not end but will likely go to 500 million kuna. It's probably just in Sicily. But yes, I don't insult the Sicilians. Please write your reply with the correct quotes of the competition. Where and when are they published? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85232	Dear Representative Shemso Tankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer the question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Your Ministry has initiated, and this Parliament has passed a law regulating relations between the two states; Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on co-operation in the area of the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are members of the Croatian Defence Council. I repeat the Croatian Council of Defense. You probably got some reactions from Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I have at least 20 memos here. They say that part of the family, part of members of the Bosniak nationality, are discriminated against by this law. They don't have any rights. I ask what your ministry intends to do to open up the obvious discrimination of members of the HVO? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85234	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, exactly what you said was Croatia after a long time, and I have to say that it was a very difficult job to sign an agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina on the care of members of the Croatian Council of Defence, War Disabilities and families of the dead, imprisoned and missing. So that category is covered by that agreement. As far as business in Croatia is concerned, you know very well that went smoothly. That we have done this job relatively quickly since the start of this government's mandate. But there were problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But here's what ended well. The agreements are, the deal is ratified. And what I'm trying to say is, first of all, I'm asking you to bring all these memos that you have to me, here you are today, and now you can bring them right now to me to look at it. As for the agreement itself and the implementation of the agreement, he does not discriminate against anyone in any way. Because if that were the case, it would certainly not have been ratified either in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. He refers to members of the Croatian Defence Council. In particular, I can say that we at the Ministry of Croatian Defence, regardless of the nationality of the agreement, are consistently implementing, of course not asking, it really does not occur to anyone of any nationality but, of course, they just need to meet those conditions that have been accepted in the agreement itself. It means the terms of the agreement adopted by Bosnia and Herzegovina and the terms of the agreement adopted by Croatia. So I'm asking you nicely to bring it to me. I will consider each individual case personally and then I will personally answer you about each individual case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85235	... Dear Representative Shemso Tankovic. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85236	If my student answered my question the way you answered, I'd say you're not answering the question. And I would have knocked him down. But obviously we can't do that here. I assure you this list, these people who address me clearly indicate that there is discrimination here, discrimination based on nationality, Bosniak membership. Madam Minister, let's solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85237	Honorable representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. I ask Mr. Branko Vukelic, Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Although the number of employees increased by around 7,000 in 2007 in Slavonia and Baranja compared to 2003, the situation remains very difficult, partly due to poor economic structure, as well as the consequences of major war destruction. In Požega-Slavon County there are 26,000 working-age residents. Twenty thousand six hundred twenty-five people have been employed. While the unemployed are still 5 and a half thousand, making the unemployment rate about 21%. I therefore ask that the Croatian Government, within the framework of the new Investment Encouragement Act, provides for assistance to the economy to create new jobs, i.e. whether you will enable a more balanced regional development of the Republic of Croatia with a special emphasis on Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85239	Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85240	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear parliamentary MPs, it is true that there are major regional differences or differences between individual counties when it comes to economic development or unemployment. And in the foundations of the Croatian Government's programme when it comes to economic development, it is precisely one of the goals of equating economic development in all parts of Croatia. The new Law on Encouragement Investments has just gone in this direction to make clear to those investors, whether domestic or foreign, who come to Croatia that more will be valued and more stimulating investments in those parts of Croatia that have a higher unemployment rate. So when it comes to fees and incentives to create a new job for counties that have up to 10% unemployment, the fee is a thousand and a half euros. If between 10% and 20% of the fee is 2,000 euros. If it is more than 20%, and over 20% are practically all Slavonian counties, then it is an incentive for every new job of 3,000 euros. So twice as much per job the investor gets in such counties where unemployment is higher than in these counties or in the City of Zagreb where unemployment is far less. Another addition was put into the Investment Encouragement Act, which is that in regions where unemployment is more than 20%, an investor can achieve incentives of up to a million and a half euros in grant support if it is a major project, thus building a new factory with a large number of jobs over 100 jobs or a large investment of over 15m euros. Not only in this law, the government has respected in a number of other laws the specificities of certain counties, the level of development. And that is why I want to say in the end that even through the promotion programmes of small and medium-sized enterprises, we have managed to significantly balance business activities in all parts of Croatia these three years. So it was just Slavonia and the area of Slavonia when it came to the entrepreneurial activities of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship that practically reached the level of activities and developed parts of Croatia such as Zagreb in 3 years. And that means that we managed to invest in the construction of entrepreneurship zones, in the construction of infrastructure, roads, construction and new pipelines and everything the government does to create preconditions for the faster economic development of these counties. It's normal that it's not enough yet. It's normal for us to record far less unemployment today than it was three years ago. And in these counties, this unemployment is still large and precisely these measures through the Investment Encouragement Act, through the promotion of small and medium-sized economy entrepreneurship, we will make sure that in the coming years more significant shifts in the balance and, above all, economic activities in all parts of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85241	Representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to some surveys in Slavonia, especially Požega-Slavon County is living worse than in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. And therefore any assistance from the Croatian Government for a balanced regional development to create new jobs can only be welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85243	Dear representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85244	I ask my question to the Prime Minister and it refers to a tragic event that took place on February 23rd in Karlovac near the Karlovac brewery and around which the full 4 days were not launched by any of the authorities to determine what happened there. The hospital didn't report the case to the police in time, even though it was due. The police did the thing dilettically by sending an eyewitness to a police officer in the police department instead of an expert forensics officer. Local inspection services failed to even learn through the ramp of the Karlovac brewery. The first inspections that entered Pivovar after 4 days found that there were no irregularities in the work of Pivovara. And such a statement has been published on the official pages of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. However, after pressure from the public and 6 days after the incident, the arrival of a top state attorney in Karlovac, however, it was found that there were emissions of harmful and toxic substances into the environment, and only then did it begin with the real criminal treatment and expropriation of evidence. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm asking if you will insist on the resignations and proceedings against all those who have not responded in time and in accordance with the rules of the profession from the hospital, the police, to the competent inspectorates who are directly in the power of the government. And is it necessary somewhere else in Croatia that someone gets hurt in such a way that inspections do their job and make big producers care for their profits equally for the lives of citizens and environmental protection?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85245	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85246	Thank you, Mr. President. Ma'am, this is one tragic case that warns everyone in Croatia that everyone has to do their job. I have followed very closely, as well as the resolution ministries, everything that is going on around this case, and I want to, as Prime Minister, on behalf of all of us here, express my condolences to the family of the late Mr. Martinovic. I want to say, however, that according to that report we received from the government, the authorities were at the scene after they didn't leave at the weekend, and they were supposed to leave. This will certainly be one occasion that during the weekend when factories, like in this case brewery does not work or in any other case if they need to come out at night, that they all have to come out there, not to be closed the door of the brewery or the closed door of the organisation or the factory concerned, because when the incident happens, we are not interested in whether someone is working or not but must open the door to all the inspectors. But that you also have the latest information. During the reconstruction of the energy plant and the repurchase plant of the brewery, the removal of the sulphur dioxide of CO2 is connected to the sewer that goes into the stream outside the brewery circle, which is contrary to all regulations. Environmental protection inspection and construction inspection have prohibited the implementation of the fermentation from which CO2 is released until it is activated and is authorised to be used for recovery. The works have been completed and functional testing is allowed for a project that can last seven days. If by then, within these seven days, brewery does not result in a useful permit for a repurchase plant, brewers will be banned from work. The judicial authorities are conducting an investigation, and the government will consider, this is the last part of your question, and responsibility for possible conjectures and sanctions for those answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85247	Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85248	I hope you really do, Mr. Prime Minister, insist on the resignations of all those who haven't done their job, and I'll just give you a few more arguments. Seven days after the tragic event, the family of the unhappy, self-initiated clothing, sent it to the private lab for art, it was a police job. If someone there had been killed by firearms no matter what night or weekend, you well know that there would have been forensics from Zagreb, that there would have been some kind of siege. Nothing just happened here, so it's an unprofessional job. And even today, you have in one daily newspaper, a notice that the center of 112 nine days, nine days before the tragic event, was informed of an ecological incident near the Karlovo brewery and that nothing had simply been done. So I think there's a lot of arguments that those who were supposed to do the job didn't do it and maybe if they'd done every single one of their jobs, one life would be today...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85249	Honorable representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85250	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. My question is for the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Lovrin. We are witnessing a trend in increasing the number of inmates who keep growing. From 2001 to today, the number of prisoners increased by nearly 1500. Prison capacity overload is seen from the figures. Currently, 4029 prisoners are serving in penitentiary penitentiary and prisons and educational institutions while the actual capacity of the facility is 3009 prisoners. Such a large... prisoner has caused rooms such as workshops, TV halls, rooms for officials re-purposed to cells, which certainly causes anxiety and anxiety equally in the prisoners, but also in the guards. My question to you is what concrete activities are aimed at reducing the overcrowding of prisons and penitentiary and whether the prisoner database is based solely on manual processing or whether there is a possibility that it is doing something to inform the prison system in order to adapt to European standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85251	Thank you. The Minister of Justice, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85252	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative. First of all, I would like to say that the legislative framework in relation to the execution of prisons in the Republic of Croatia is adapted to the highest European standards and includes provisions of all international conventions in this area. Of course, the Ministry of Justice must also provide for the Croatian government, of course, and the material conditions for the full implementation of these laws. In accordance with the European standards set in the Republic of Croatia, there is, of course, a problem of overcrowding of prisons and penitentiary, but this problem is not specific to the Republic of Croatia. Similarly, in the Republic of Croatia, the number of prisoners in the population is still in the lower part of the ranking compared to the transition countries and European countries. Therefore, of course we can expect an increase in population, population and the Republic of Croatia. In contrast, given the pre-determined resources in the state budget to increase prison capacity, the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament have repeatedly increased funds to build capital facilities of the prison system this year. So in the budget plan, the expansion of capacity in the Glina Penitentiary by 290 prisons is ensured by around 10 million kunas in the budget. It has been completed and construction documentation has been completed and public competition for the selection of contractors is under way. The same plan is to expand Zagreb's prison hospital for 100 seats and modernise the existing capacity of 130 seats. The prison is also planned to be extended, in Zagreb for 200 prisoners, and prison building is planned, i.e. a penitentiary in the Sibenik area with a capacity of 400 seats. These three last projects I have listed are planned to be built according to the programme and the project of a public private partnership. Another extremely effective measure for dispensing prisons and penitentiary is the enforcement of alternative sanctions in this area that we are trying to actually encourage courts to impose such legal sanctions as are provided by law, which often have better effect on convicts and this educational component, and I must say that around 280 sanctions are currently imposed and around 180 sanctions are imposed for working for the common good with legal persons and institutions with which the Ministry of Justice has a signed contract, such is the legal person 74 in Croatia. As regards information, of course information is one of the components of the modernisation of the prison system. And very briefly, the project began in 2004, in 2006 all the application equipment was purchased, 6 IT pilots were examined by the end of 2006, and is now gradually being introduced into all 14 penitentiary and 7 prison information systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85253	Thank you. Representative Velimir Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85254	I thank Madam Minister for her reply and with the desire for these figures you mentioned yourself to succeed, this sort of prison new deal. I express once again my satisfaction in the hope that both prisoners and... guards in prisons, building and upgrading these prison facilities will be in much better quality conditions to work, i.e. serve punishment than at these times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85255	Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85256	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I refer my question to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Mr. Branko Vukelic. Since the increase in the number of exporters is one of the four strategic objectives of Croatia's export offensive, and it is Virovitica-Podravska County that precedes exports of sugar, furniture and ceramics products, when are the first activities expected in this plan to encourage exports?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85257	Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85258	Thank you, Mr. President. The honourable parliamentary representative, it is true that a single Croatian export offensive project has been launched which is a continuation of the government's efforts to actually strengthen exports and to balance trade when we look at the coverage of exports. I'd say that's one opposite policy from the one we inherited when it was a kind of import offensive during last government. We wanted to strengthen our Croatian producers as soon as possible and to strengthen and export our goods and services to other countries, because with the coverage of 43% of the amount of export coverage in 2003 we cannot expect more stable and longer-term economic development of Croatia. In 2 years, 6% was able to raise this coverage of exports, from 43% to some 49%, but it also began at the beginning of last year to work on one strategy, an operational strategy of continuous promotion of exports, as it was seen in a conversation with all partners such as the Association of Employers of the Chamber of Commerce that, in fact, this process must be long-term, that there cannot be a short period of time and that cannot be achieved in a short time, and this is the balance of trade and coverage of imports in Croatia with practically the same amount of exports. One of these goals is as you said you had as many exporters as possible and therefore we have a special project in this export offensive that we called "I want to export". The office of export offensive, so 7 experts at the Ministry of Economy has been formed, started working, we are starting with this project that will actually be educational, but with this education, there will be one quality service for every exporting entrepreneur, because especially in the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship sector we still have too little of those who decide to go out to other markets, primarily markets close to the neighborhood, but also that. Therefore, this programme and this project are practically moving with this month, and I believe that it will get the results we want, and that is not only more absolute exports when we talk about financial, we are following financially, but the more entrepreneurs involved in exporting and present in other markets, which means that we have raised their competitiveness, because without competitiveness there is no possibility of being present on another market, that is what is really important when we talk about export offensive turning their production, turning industry and raising the competitiveness of all our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85259	Representative Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85260	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for a concrete answer, and I believe that indeed this month and the exporters who possess this information will certainly be pleased with your measures and measures taken by the Croatian Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85261	Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85262	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to refer my question to the Prime Minister. To appoint the first ministers, these days it ends six months after I sent a letter to our learned President of the Parliament asking him to organise a final or final debate on the revision of conversion and privatisation. He was good enough to give your government a request and to prepare this one material. My question is about who's working on it, how much work it is, when this material will be finished, and I'm interested in it because I've personally completed the analysis of only one sector's conversions, and that's the banking sector. In the recovery of banks, Croatian tax salaries have invested to sample the prime minister of 15 billion euros, the Croatian state has received a billion euros, and the current value of these banks is 40 billion euros. So we're only in that operation, and not one, but all three governments lost over let's say 50 billion euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85263	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85264	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. You as well as I know well that the revision of conversion and privatisation is done by the State Audit Office, not by the Government. So my answer is to do so by the State Audit Office, and as soon as it's done, we can discuss it again. We government don't mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85265	Representative of the Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85266	Looks like his caution wasn't concentrated. You have been sent by the President of the Parliament as Government to send us material, and I do not care what you serve. So give me a written answer when it comes from the government, or I'll prepare it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85267	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85268	It's a question for Minister Kirin. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, what about the police department of the Split-Dalmatia County? Apparently, the leaders of that police administration were involved in the Brodosplit affair because they obstructed the investigation, misinformed the public, had group meetings with the suspects...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85269	With who?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85270	Reported, suspects, made statements that everything was fine, that there were no criminal acts there, that there was no sign of it. And a year ago, before the investigation was over. Meanwhile, the State's Attorney's Office has also launched investigative activities without waiting for the end of the investigation into the police administration because it's obviously not up to them to come to the truth. I asked Mr. Prime Minister for the last time, and I got a funny letter reply yesterday that doesn't even match him, but Mrs. Kosor did. I don't know, it's about some identity swap. I ask one, answer the other and so on. I'm asking you this time. And so, I don't expect a funny but serious answer, and I want to ask you, was there political pressure on the leaders of the police administration in Split that they behave like this? Is anyone in that police department going to answer for this kind of behavior? And do you consider yourself responsible as the head of the ministry for this kind of behaviour of the police administration in the largest county in Croatia? And do you intend to suffer the consequences of doing so in accordance with the function you perform?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85271	Home Secretary Ivica Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85272	I thank you for this question. Dear President of the Parliament, fellow ministers, Prime Minister! All of this would be personal responsibility if the police hadn't done their job. But I have to inform you here that from the first day on, I've been participating in the top of the police department together with the State's Attorney's Office. So, the police of Split-Dalmatia and if they wanted to make a deal, if there was anything that you're saying, they couldn't because the surveillance of the work, the work in the criminal processing of the "Brodosplit" affair, was led from the top of the Ministry of the Interior. And Mr. Jurovic, you know it best. What they did, did not work, certainly that the work of the Split-Dalmatia Police Administration will be decided by the most responsible man in the police, and this is Mr. Director Marijan Benko. And these days after the end of all the investigations that are being conducted, they're going to decide on condensities may be individuals who have obstructed if it turns out to be evidence. But I want to tell you as well as any investigation so far, investigations are being conducted jointly in the coordination of USKOK, the State's Attorney's Office and the Ministry of the Interior, so there was no possibility of a single case, and so on the "Brodosplit" that something was being obstructed. And what you all know is that we've been waiting for an answer, and that's why this investigation took so long, the Austrian MUP. And I said in one funny context, which is why we should attack another country to provide us with an answer, because there is justice and procedures for obtaining information and how co-operation is done between the police states of the two countries. We will consider all other items in the next period, not only the Police Administration in Split-Dalmatia, but in all administrations. And we'll see if there's any leaks. We will also discuss these measures, and the public will be informed. As far as the "Brodosplit" affair is concerned, let me finish. The "Brodosplit" affair, or criminal investigation, and the affairs raised around the "Brodosplit", I must say that at no time has a statement by any of the leaders and the Split administration, but no other political factors have affected the criminal investigation. And that's why we didn't manifest ourselves. Because we are bound by the USKOK Act, where we cannot give details of the applications made, regardless of what is often the issue before this respected House. I left that job to the police department. And the police department's investigation is here, finalized. It's in front of the judicial authorities, and it's only up to them to pass the appropriate verdict. And whether or not there was a failure, the director of the police will soon decide in his own internal affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85273	Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85274	But, Mr. Minister! If the leaders of the police administration in Split a year ago, at the beginning of the year, say that everything is fine, although the investigation takes place, that there is no trace of any illegal actions, if what I say is true, they hold a meeting together in the offices of the government in Split with the leaders of "Brodosplita", with shipowner Wessels, with... etc., and there were two employees of the Brodosplit, I know their names. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if we have to, we'll get to the truth. And I'm not gonna tolerate any more funny answers from the government. I don't want to be a representative at the Croatian Parliament. And this is that the Police Administration in Split is more concerned with politics than with its work is evidence of the tragic death of Mrs. Diana Brzic. That's the truth about the police department in Split. And it's an honor to the honorable people of the police. They're 90%, and I'm taking their hat off. They work for small money one of the hardest jobs in Croatia. I'm talking about leaders. And don't make it look like "eat the wolf" again and pass again... those who have good political protectors and others who get hurt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85275	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85276	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my question to the foreign and European integration minister, Mrs Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. Like this. A number of businessmen, me and them in the city of St. I know for weeks, they didn't wait long, and right after the war they crossed the borders and southern and eastern countries and started doing business clearly and, imported and exported, buying plants, opening representations. But normally, they expect the safety and protection that the Croatian government is trying to provide. I am interested in whether the process of cooperation in Southeast Europe, whose initiators we support, will bring this security? Furthermore, would the pessimists be welcome to say that a Balkan association is expected again? And finally, what will be the results of the summit in Zagreb? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85277	Foreign Minister and European Integration Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85278	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Of course there's no speech about creating a Balkan Federation. ... internal knowledge of facts or their false interpretations. [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]] Southeastern Europe Co-operation Process so-called SEECP is a political forum that brings together ten member states, three of which are European Union, Romania, Bulgaria and Greece. The three countries are candidates for membership in the European Union, Croatia, Macedonia and Turkey. Four are members of NATO. Romania, Bulgaria, Greece and Turkey again. And other countries are at various levels of integration into Euro-Atlantic institutions. The process focuses on political dialogue, establishing or further promoting peace and stability, and certainly gives strong support to the further development of Euro-Atlantic perspectives of all countries in the area of South-Eastern Europe. Croatia is currently the chairman of the process, which is in the crucial phase of its transformation to be seen in the framework of the Stability Pact exit strategy. In talks with the European Union, talks with SEECP Member States and with international donors agreed on the establishment of a so-called The Regional Cooperation Councils, which will have its secretariat and secretaries from South-Eastern Europe and which will work on those aesthetic, logistic and other tasks to support such projects targeted by SEECPs such as further building of transport energy infrastructure, promoting entrepreneurship, co-operation in the fight against cross-border crime and other issues, cooperation in South-Eastern Europe but also with particular emphasis on institutionalising relations and linking with the European Union. The Croatian presidency will end with a summit on 11 May here in Zagreb. This will indeed be a highly profiled international event at which high officials such as Angela Merkel, Jose Manuel Barroso, Olli Rehn and others have confirmed their participation and at this summit decisions on the establishment of a council or secretariat, the appointment of the Secretary-General, the establishment of a liaison office between the Regional Co-operation Council and the European Union, some amendments to the SEECP Charter, etc. And after the Croatian chairmanship of the SEDSPA presidency, Bulgaria will take over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85279	Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85280	Thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85281	Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85282	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking my representative a question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivy Sanader. For 37 years in these areas, tenants of apartment rights on nominally private property had the same rights and responsibilities as tenants of residential rights in housing in state or social property. From 1991 to 1996, the process of turning household rights into full ownership lasted. At the end of that process, we got completely unequal citizens from the exact same rights holders. The majority of tenants became the total owners of the apartment and not only did they not get the right and the possibility of a favourable purchase of the apartment but their legal right to care for their home and family was abolished. These tenants are therefore double-discriminatory and demoted to so-called. protected tenants. First, they were denied the right and the possibility of a favourable purchase of the apartment in 1991 and then taken away from them only by tenant rights in 1996, resulting in domestic and family endangerment. As the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees the equality of all before the law and protection of homes and families with existing legislation, there has been a violation of the letter and spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the international contracts signed and ratified by the Republic of Croatia. The consequences are the uncertainty of housing, constant conflict, litigation and physical arguments between owners and tenants. This situation is unsustainable, and better and lasting solutions must be urgently found to the extent that conflicted parties have not found themselves in the present situation with their will and guilt. Among the tenants, there are the most retired people in their later life and illnesses. The question is when will the competent ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia refer the draft law or the amendments to the existing discriminatory legislation in order to finally resolve this problem and to ensure that the solution is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the international agreements adopted by Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85283	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85284	Mr. Representative, you know as well as I do that there are no nominal owners. There's no such thing as a category anywhere in the democratic world. There are owners or non-owners. So the nominal owners are gone and that's the whole key to the problem. I have more sympathy than you might imagine for the people who are protected by the tenants, who have been granted such status today but also the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg has made such decisions that it cannot harm the property of non-nominal owners but the owners of the apartments that have been wrongly taken from them during the communist dictatorship. And now the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction has conducted a survey to determine the number of protected tenants in private-owned apartments that he reported on, precisely, that you have the data, 4000 431 tenants. However, the review of the documentation submitted found that not all the tenants had come forward because we have a comparison provided by the owners of the apartments, not nominal, but owners, because this nominal does not exist. According to the ministry in Croatia, there are about 5.5 thousand protected tenants in private apartments. And now we have one situation that you said would be best. It would be best if we had a deal. However, obviously there is no possibility of an agreement because on the one hand the protected tenants, which we absolutely understand, are seeking the right to buy apartments in which they live and this is not possible according to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, our Constitutional Court, that by becoming protected tenants is not injured by the Constitution. And according to the decisions of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, according to which their right to housing under the European Convention on Human Rights has not been violated. On the other hand, owners of apartments where protected tenants are located do not give up their exclusive requirements to move protected tenants out of their apartments and to return to their apartments. We have two positions that are diametrically opposite and opposite. And now the government in this situation, not only my government, but the previous governments are looking for the best possible solution. And I can tell you what I can tell you here and the protected tenants and all the owners of the apartments we're looking for a solution and I think we might be able to find it, but there's no solution that can completely satisfy both sides. Unfortunately, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85285	Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85286	Mr. President, let me have a different opinion and that the formulation of nominally private property could be discussed much in the light of the history behind us. What I would like to draw attention to is that there is a knowledge that the judge who participated in the work of the European Court of Human Rights and herself in a conflict of interest, since she is the owner of an apartment in Zagreb where she is a protected tenant. The second thing I would like to say is that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, by its estimates on page 1004 and 1005, justifiably killed its incorrect assessment on page 997. And a third thing I'd like to say. If we're a legal state and we're a state of social justice, we can't let two categories of citizens conflict with each other without us setting a legal barrier between them. And in the end, I'd like to give you one contribution from the householder's alliance, one small part of the householder's records that are life-threatening, sick and deceased. Unfortunately, I was looking at that material. There are many citizens of Split... [[The speaker is away from the microphone, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85287	Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85288	Dear Mr. President and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking my representative a question to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. It refers to the introduction of a tax number. Lately, much has been said and written about the introduction of a single tax number. I ask the Minister of Finance to explain to us, but also to the Croatian public, what will be achieved by introducing a tax number and at what stage is the necessary legislative regulation to define this project?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85289	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, there are several reasons why the Ministry of Finance has joined the creation of a tax code or it doesn't even matter what it's called. One of the basic reasons why there is no common identification mark at this time which could link all state institutions with a variety of changes in assets, transactions and so on. So that's one reason. Another reason is the instrument based on whom the tax administration will be able to work more effectively because you have in Croatia today a number of financial transactions that were practically either on such a small level or negligible in the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I'm thinking about traffic across the stock market. So buying and selling shares. I also think about shopping through "leasing" because today is the easiest time to say, "It's not mine. I bought it through "leasing". However, this "leasing" needs someone to pay and whether someone bought a car, a boat, and even have apartments that are bought in such a way, the tax administration will get the data and will see from the basis of the registered annual revenues whether someone can buy either like this or on a "leasing" such movable or real estate and whether, if not, if it does not cover his tax card he will have to document his source of income to buy it. In such a way, no matter what they say to me, it is one of the most effective instruments for fighting corruption and bribery. Because practically no transaction will be able to happen without her being recorded and the tax administration has no record of it. The second thing, in such a way, we will want to or would not admit to protecting the privacy of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia because it will not be possible to happen today, as is unfortunately happening to someone for various political purposes. Then it's proved to be like that and nothing to anyone. Given that there will be records of such an instrument of struggle and mutual accusation will disappear and what I would like to point out in particular and say. In this way, we will introduce order in giving social benefits and relief. Because then social aid will really get those who have that life accident if they're not able to have the property that they can survive, and they won't get the help of those whose property is far above that censorship to be able to achieve that social aid. So the law is practically made. Since we want to gather information from various bodies with this number, we need to consult with legal and economic experts on how to regulate this law without having to amend a number of other laws where these institutions will be obliged to allow access to the tax administration of that data. And what I'd like to say in the end. By abolishing the Single Parent Number Act we have put into place, by law on the use of that number we have publicly placed many institutions in a position to have problems with obtaining data. This will be unique, it will be a number with 11 digits that will have the same physical and legal persons and practically every citizen of Croatia by birth gets the right to that number. And when he takes it, it's his personal private matter. And companies are practically starting to get a tax number so that any of their transactions will be recorded and it will be impossible to cover up any transaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85291	Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85292	Thank you. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85293	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja-Martinčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85294	Thank you very much. I ask the question of the Minister of Culture, Master of God's Bishop. These days an agreement was signed on the single price of the book between the Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Community of Publishing and Bookshops. But the public's reactions are very different. I would almost say that part of the public is not satisfied with it, but if he didn't even understand what the purpose of this agreement is, so I ask you nicely to answer the question of what, what results are really going to be obtained with the introduction of the single price of the book? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85295	Minister of Culture Bozo Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85296	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. The single or fixed price of the book is one standard measure known in Europe, in many countries. I'll just mention some. Spain and Portugal, Germany and Austria or Italy and France or Hungary or Greece. And after about a year and a half of talks with representatives of the publishing and bookshop community have finally come to the signing of an agreement between the three ministries. Ministry of Culture, Education and the Ministry of Economy. And a community of publishers and bookstores. So it's about everyone, it's already known maybe about the price that's printed on the back cover and what year it's standard, it's actually fixed in some way. In fact, after a few months, publishers changed the price of the book. They send a book to the bookstore at the price they found at the very beginning when the book came out. So then, very quickly, some temporary stands or something are set up where the price of the book is already half cut, and in this way it's actually still come and it's helped in some way to break down a cruise network that's usually due to the situation and because after the war, it's very difficult to recover and it hasn't actually recovered yet. What is important may be to say that there are exceptions when it comes to the price of the book that at the fairs in this agreement we have signed. That's 20% of fairs can lower book prices or if it's about that club sale or the subscription sale, then it's about 10% down the book. It's a good thing the Ministry of Economy signed the same agreement because we also provide bookmakers and publishers with the same access to more favourable loans that the Ministry of Economy otherwise has for a small economy. What we're actually kind of expecting. First of all, we expect stabilisation on the book market. We expect greater competitiveness from the library network. We expect a better, accessible book to the user and expect to actually lower the average price of the book, of course not within a year, but a longer process. And I think that since we have experience, they have these European countries that have been doing this for many years and it has been very useful. We believe, and... The representatives of the publishing and bookshop community also believe that this will contribute to a stabilisation on the book market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85297	Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85298	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I assume that this will also mean the introduction of order in this segment of culture and simply because publishing is one of the perhaps most sensitive areas today as sensitive to the publisher as for those end-users, so the purchasers of books and that this will clarify the situation which was not clear for a time. And the general public who didn't do it professionally didn't know exactly what it was about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85299	Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85300	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia with his associates. I refer the issue to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, Mrs Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. Since the beginning of the independence, the strategic goal of the Republic of Croatia has been to join European integration into the European Union. And I'd say there's not one side in this House of Highs that doesn't support it heartily. This is why all Stabilisation and Association Council reports that monitor the relations of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union are closely monitored. And, Madam Minister, how serious are the criticisms coming from the European Union for insufficient progress in meeting certain political issues? How will the Government of the Republic of Croatia respond to them? And can this reflect both the speed and the course of negotiations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85301	Foreign Minister and European Integration Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85302	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Madam Representative. First of all, I would like to remind you that in the 2006 Progress Report, almost all areas of the European Union Report have praised the progress made in the area of reforms undertaken in the Republic of Croatia, and this is particularly true of meeting the political criteria. And when it comes to the 3rd session of the Stabilisation and Association Council, I would say that these evaluations are even better than that progress report. In particular, the second Stabilisation and Association Council meeting was better compared to last year's session. And this is certainly reflected in a joint statement issued after this year's meeting, which is far more favourable in terms of meeting the political criteria. Normally there are questions in which Croatia must make further progress and this government is fully aware. The Stabilisation and Association Council confirmed that Croatia continues to meet the Copenhagen political criteria. And the need to make further efforts in terms of reforms and implementation of reforms in areas such as the judiciary, the state administration and the fight against corruption has been highlighted. We have normally reported on our part everything that has been done in these areas in the meantime, as well as in the areas of implementation of other reforms in the Republic of Croatia. The Council welcomed the overall progress made in the area of refugee returns, assets, minority rights. The Republic of Croatia is encouraged to further implement strengthening the Constitutional Law on National Minorities. The progress made in regional co-operation is welcomed, particularly the Croatian SEECP Presidency, etc. And when it comes to the speed of accession, what is extremely important is that the Council has confirmed an individual approach, i.e. that each country will approach the efforts made in the home reform processes, i.e. in its own country, and that the normal speed of accession negotiations will depend on the results of these reforms, and therefore each country will be assessed on the basis of its own achievements. And I would also point out that in this universal debate on enlargement, further enlargement of the European Union, Croatia is indeed seen as a future 28th member and that this is one of the positive moments that we must certainly take advantage of. When it comes to the further course of negotiations, our objectives during 2007 are to open as many negotiating chapters as possible, and to close each one normally and in 2008 focus on meeting the criteria for closing, closing chapters and normal closing negotiations. So far, we've opened transparently and closed two chapters. We've opened three more chapters. In late March, we expect another chapter to be opened, and by the end of the German Presidency, we believe that we will open and temporarily close another chapter. So here at this point there's really no talking about the impasse of negotiations. In fact, Croatia continues to work, insist and co-operate with the European Union because we want to increase and strengthen this momentum, speed and moment in the negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85303	Representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85304	Thank you, Madam Minister. And it's known that rule, when it's done, mostly when it's done well, then the results are unquestionable and it can be the only questionable time and it can be slightly questionable. Here, March 25th, all European institutions have marked 50 years since the signing of the Roman Treaties. They have created the foundations of the European Union and despite these 50 years, certain issues are still not sufficiently agreed, certain areas are not regulated. If we compare our 17 years of territory to that time period, and if we know all the troubles of the system we've lived in for more than 50 years and the troubles of the Homeland War for 5 years then really, really, it's a big step. I have no doubt that you and the government in which you are a member will successfully bring to the satisfaction of all of us these negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85305	Dear Representative Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85306	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed ministers, vice-presidents of the government. I ask this question because in public the situation is quite chaotic and because of the inability of all those who can ask it, Minister of Agriculture about swine fever. Mr. Ministers, here are almost two years since your ministry has made a quick decision to stop the vaccination of pigs against swine fever by courting the European Union. Your argument is that after the suspension of vaccination Croatia will be able to export pork to EU countries. Since then, Croatia has not exported a kilogram of pork to that market. ... Exports. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Of that decision and the announced benefits of it, we are left with nothing but damage. Instead of saving from you 90 or more million kunas, we have so far achieved the direct damage that is measured by some estimates by tens of millions of kunas, but that is not the most important. It is truly far greater damage by the plague affected farm or economy are completely lost to pig production, which does not mean that only pigs are injured but breeders, especially those small ones that you consciously sacrifice with your policy, and especially employees and their families. Instead of benefiting from damage, the entire social community suffers because of non-production. An example of swine fever is evidence of rapid, unequivocal measures in the courtship and of a servant's attitude towards the EU that destroys the Croatian village. I'm asking Mr. Minister a question to you, to myself, to all of us. Are you in the service, and you have to answer, an import lobby that generates a single profit by importing unquality, unhealthy meat for processing, or should you be a minister of Croatian peasants who should be able to develop conditions for production, placement of its goods and any Croatian citizen to ensure healthy food and safe nutrition. Mr. Minister,...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85307	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85308	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85309	You asked a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85310	No, I'm not finished. I'm sorry. So as many as they have, give us the tolerances, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85311	No, no. Please. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I will answer you very briefly. I am not a representative of any import lobby but I am a minister who wants to create as optimal conditions for the development of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. In this context, agriculture in the Republic of Croatia also receives certain results that can be shown in multiple parameters. One of the parameters is also the external trade balance where the agriculture and food industries sector practically in these results is aheading in the Republic of Croatia, which means that competitiveness in the agricultural and food sectors has increased, that with 51% coverage of exports in 2004, we came to 57% of export coverage in 2005. That in 2006 we ended up with 65% coverage of exports, which is the best result of the independence of the Republic of Croatia in coverage in this sector and that we will end in 2007 with more than 70% coverage of exports in 2007. I think these are the best indicators of the direction and direction of the agricultural movement. Other indicators are an undisputed increase in production, above all, the increase in surface area, the use of inciting by number of hectares. Next, an increase in the production of basic agricultural products such as milk, then an increase in milk, we have an increase of over 20% or 100 million liters or cca 300 million kuna of new money in agriculture, an increase in tova heroin, an increase in pig loads. These are indicators that show that we get certain results in these segments. And now specifically to the question of swine fever. The question of swine fever is the question that needs to be discussed and can be said by those who know something about this problem. No vaccination against swine fever is a measure aimed at the eradication of swine fever while there is a vaccination of swine fever virus present in one latent state. And for that reason, it would be very good for Croatia if the measure had been introduced before and it is not a submission to the European Union. Croatia could choose or not implement measures or be unable to place its products. That's what I say responsibly. And the situation with swine fever isn't alarming. She's received a certain I'd say and we need to approach her seriously, but it's not alarming. And the situation will be normalized and settled in the finality and number of courtyards, and also the number of affected sick animals has not taken alarming proportions. The only conditioned bigger problem is that it has spread to a wider area and that is why we have adopted certain measures that we are carrying out. And we had to go to a reduction during this period, to ban the traffic of pigs, to ban the traffic of pigs at fairs. The measure is until 8 April, after which we will address the issue of all surpluses in ways as we have so far solved surpluses in certain segments of production, and before that was a measure of intervention buying pigs, which creates a presumption of ransom reduction. In pig production last year we had an increase of 36% of production, in the first two months of this year it increased compared to last year...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85313	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85314	Thank you very much. I expected more about swine fever than about these successes of yours, but I realized that you're actually working on another area and not this area, because you have to admit this is out of control. You're not far from being declared an epidemic and if you're really on the trail of destroying swine fever in this way, I believe you're having a hard time sleeping at night, because if that's the goal of this government, and otherwise you can only destroy the swine fever so that all pig population destroys me well, there's no other way, and this minister if he destroys swine fever in a way that's really one monument that we're going to have to raise a minister. Well done!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85315	Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85316	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Honored Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. My question is about adapting the Ministry of the Interior to the Schengen border security regime and standards that apply to this matter in the European Union. I'm referring the question to Minister Ivica Kirina. What has been done so far to build and adapt border security with European standards, and how has the Integrated Border Management Action Plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia been achieved at the end of last year?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85317	Home Secretary Ivica Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85318	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor. As regards the adaptation of the Ministry of the Interior to the Schengen regime and the European Union, we must say that we have actually carried out a deep analysis of the compliance of Croatian legislation and its implementation in the field of asylum, migration, visas, external borders, organised crime, drug trafficking, trafficking, trafficking, terrorism, judicial cooperation in civil criminal matters, police and customs cooperation in the context of the explanatory and bilateral screening. The measures to be taken within the Ministry of the Interior, the Republic of Croatia and other relevant resolutions covering the area of 24 justice, freedom and security have been adopted in order to fully comply with the acquis of the European Union. Namely, the Action Plan for Integrated Border Management of the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted on 30 November 2006 and the Schengen Action Plan was also adopted. Namely, the borders of the Republic of Croatia, especially the border towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, is one of the longest borders in Europe, is about a thousand and a kilometer long, and then we have a border towards Serbia, the border towards Montenegro, plus a maritime border, which is around 980km along a thousand islands, one of the most demanding borders, the external borders of the European Union. Accordingly, our people from the Ministry and experts from the Ministry of the Interior in cooperation with police who also carry out action surveillance of their borders and the implementation of the Schengen Action Plan are adopting the best methods and best technology so that we too can carry out all that is put forward in front of us as standards of the European Union. In particular, in the part of the coordination of the work of professional services, it should also indicate the signing of an agreement in cooperation on integrated management of borders between the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance of Customs Administration, the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and the water economy, the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the State Inspectorate. Also in concrete activities in the implementation of the action plan these days, new systems have been established on Biokovo and on Dance as a system of passport control, which means we are making use of best information technology to increase human and slave fluctuations at border crossings. During this year 2007, implementation of seven more border crossings is also planned. We must also say that in order to improve the capacity of the Croatian police, a tender for entry into the border police has been launched and concrete financial indicators have been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which are defined in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior on the part of employment, equipment and technology, in order to simply comply with the standards set before it. What I want to say at the end of the day, dear representative, because there is a lot of it, I would have to answer for a very long time about all the activities of the Ministry of the Interior, at your request I can deliver it in writing, but I would like to say in the end that everything that the Republic of Croatia does in the pre-accession phase of the European Union is the most beneficial to it, because we are a tourist country where we have about 10 million foreign tourists in the territory of the Republic of Croatia annually. But not only that, but we are also a transit country where more than 90 million tourists pass in transit annually, people through the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore in the interest of the country's own security to take all the activities that the members of the European Union have right now, because in this way we will make the best contribution to the protection and security of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85319	Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85320	Thank you, Mr. Minister. From an example of police action in Vukovar-Srijem County, especially at the Biokovo border crossing where police and customs officers have been very successful in detecting a really large amount of drugs lately. It is evident how much it means for the police to own the most modern equipment, so it is important that you continue to insist on police equipment and on implementing an action plan for integrated border management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85321	Honorable representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85322	Thank you. The question is for the Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. In addition to the extremely controversial project of the Upper Horizons in Republika Srpska, therefore in Bosnia and Herzegovina which potentially threatens the water supply of Neretva, in addition to not publishing the water purity analysis in the Neretva valley, fear is growing in Ploča because of the extremely irresponsible storage of dangerous chemicals,... raw materials, cabinets and others within the "New Plobest" factory that threatens the health of the population of the non-retva region. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have here something about 33 cardboards collected only the last few days of people who have suffered from asbestos, chronic bronchitis, etc. The question is this. What the government intends to do through the district ministries and the state administration's inspection that the self-will of private entrepreneurs who do not respect regulation does not turn into a non-retvaic eco disaster like the one in which they were recently experienced in the case of the "Carlovska brewery".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85323	Mr. President, Mr. Representative. First a few words about the Upper Horizons that you mentioned, and then this incident of the Plobest factory from Ploče. So, in all the bilateral contacts so far, we have warned and I warn Bosnia and Herzegovina that we also insist that they sign the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment across the state borders of '91. Bosnia and Herzegovina has not signed the Convention yet and because of the fact that it did not sign the joint commission of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina for the water economy. At the session of the commission held on 13 July on the initiative of the Croatian side, we discussed the impact of building a multi-purpose use system of the waters of the Upper Horizons of eastern Herzegovina on the water regime of Trebišnica and Neretva and was asked to establish monitoring as soon as possible in accordance with previously issued water law. By our commission, our part of the commission has been asked not to take any further action on the construction of a multi-purpose facility of the Upper Horizons according to the contract to regulate water-economic relations without the consent of the Croatian side. The topic will be one of the topics at an official meeting during a official visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina next week, so this topic. Otherwise, at the OSCE session, the Croatian delegation made a statement in January 2007 about the impact and construction of the multi-purpose facility "The Upper Horizons" and on the water regime of the area of Donja Neretva. And at 12. also at the OESS conference in Zaragoza, Spain on 12 March this year, we presented the impact of building a multi-purpose facility "The Upper Horizons" on the water regime on the left side of Neretva. And in this regard, as a result of all of our activities, a meeting of the Committee on the Water Economy of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina is scheduled for March 28th. It's next week, with the only item on the agenda, which is building this multi-purpose system and affecting the water regime of Neretva. Now, around Flobish. At the announcement of the asbestos victims' society that you and we received, that from the Plobest factory from Ploče, asbestos was rejected at the area of Laniština in Ploča, the environmental protection inspection immediately after a tip on 13 March 2007 carried out surveillance at that site and found that some 25 times 2.5 square metres of dusty things were discarded in the vicinity of which an intense smell felt. In addition to environmental protection, surveillance has been carried out by Crimea. The police from the record that secured the area of the waste. Environmental protection inspection has requested an analysis of the Institute for Public Health in Zagreb to identify and prove the facts regarding such a rejected substance. And we have a report or obligation and such an announcement by the Institute that by this day no later than tomorrow, this analysis of the City Public Health Institute of Zagreb will be delivered to the Ministry. We also informed the mayor of Ploč about this waste disposal report. And according to the results of the findings we expect today or tomorrow, we expect to unequivocally determine the offender. Environmental protection inspection will order the removal and disposal of waste in the prescribed manner through an authorised person. But we will also request sanctioning those responsible. Here, these are the most concrete measures we've done in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85324	Representative Ivo Banac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85325	.../Intruder: Thank you./...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85326	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85327	Thank you very much. I'm referring the question to the prime minister, Dr. Evey Sanader. Today Minister Vukelic has several times... I was talking about a situation in a small economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In yesterday's press, I read his statement, as three years ago he saw strong incentives missing in a small economy. I read in the press yesterday that 120 million kuna incentives were provided for small entrepreneurship. I also read that the road towards Galjenica costs 29 million kuna per km, which means that for 150 thousand small entrepreneurs we have provided incentives worth 4 kilometers of road. Obviously, Mr. Prime Minister, neither did the minister well inform you about the situation in the small economy and support, because when you visited Stankovci, you said that the areas for the economy are Croatian new business, because your government inherited only a few zones. You've got 280 now, and there'll be 400 of them by the end. The problem is that only 88 million kuna is provided for the implementation of this new budget transaction, which means 200 thousand kuna per zone. The second problem is that the economy minister did not know you that he inherited the 188 zone, which he wrote in a November 2003 report, which means that only 100 new zones have occurred in the past four years. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Do you really believe after this that this is a Croatian new retail deal, especially if it is taken into account that since this year it has been lifted into favourable lending for a small economy after seven years? Or is this really just one unsettling dealing with too little budget money instead of a new deal for a small economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85328	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85329	Mr. Representative! It is well known to you that we are in a series of statements, when we talked about work and what we took over at the handover, you remember and commended and work in your portfolio while you were Minister and that we did not say that it began from... with us, to start from scratch. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talked about this, then we talked in a way not only that the money you bid the Government donates, but also land, Croatian forest, other institutions. Therefore, we have a situation today that the state through various institutions participates not only through direct money and incentives to small and medium enterprises, but also through transfer to ownership or giving building rights. That's the two institutes we use. And I can tell you there's a very big interest everywhere. What I was talking about as a new deal was that there really was an explosion, which is true, entrepreneurial and economic zones at the time of this government. And what is particularly important, and I am sure that you will also support and welcome, is that unlike the practice so far in these new economic zones, even in the Novi Stankovci you have now quoted, 80% of those who enter the business zone will be production companies and not more companies. We've had enough of the store. I don't have anything against her, but we're way too potent for manufacturing companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85330	Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85331	Thank you. I'm happy with the answer. However, I wish there were a little less euphoria and a little more efficiency. And I wish that since you've seen how much this sector has potential. In the last period alone, he hired about 60 and a few thousand jobs, so that even in the rebalancing of the budget, instead of big words, he provided a little more money to build these zones and to give greater incentives to those who work in production, to those who export them and to those who hire them. And we expect it from a small economy. We're swearing to them right now, but when it comes to support, it's too little anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85332	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're halfway through the current morning. We'll have a little break by 12 o'clock. It's next, Honorable Representative Nenad Stazic at 12 o'clock. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing with the current morning of asking the government parliamentary questions. It's next, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to Minister Shuker. Dear Ministers, against Mr Miomir Zuzula's representative, someone anonymously filed criminal charges for tax evasion. It is the suspicion that Mr. Zuzul rented his house on Kozarceva Street from the end of 2002 to mid-2004 for 3 thousand 580 euros per month to the European Commission delegate and that when the nature of the lease was discovered, he paid 38 thousand kuna instead of 121,000 and 705 kuna what he was supposed to pay. However, the state's attorney's office has not yet decided whether to initiate proceedings against MP Zuzul or to reject that anonymous criminal application. The State Attorney's Office cannot in any way decide how to proceed because the tax administration has not yet provided them with all the documents on this case. You are responsible for the work of the tax administration for Minister Shuker, which is why I'm asking you. Is it appropriate for you because of something that suspects Mr. Zuzul's dishonest and illegal conduct goes on forever, which is why the tax administration doesn't deliver documents. Or does the tax administration not deliver documents because they're waiting for this case to fall into absolute oblivion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85335	Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85336	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, this question of yours has been asked on the trail of the SDP's permanent rhetoric "I'm suing, I'm investigating, I'm judging.". First of all, you don't know how to handle an administrative procedure in the state authority of the administration. So, if Mr. Zuzul was found to be 120,000, I'm speaking this aproximately, then that debt is recorded in his tax card and there's no way he'll get into obsolescence. The other thing is, it's very strange that, you know, the state's attorney's office doesn't have the data and that it can't complete the case against Mr. Zuzula and I, as the finance minister you called responsible, didn't get any memo that would give me a state's attorney, did whoever was running this procedure warn me that he wasn't getting the documents requested from the tax administration. So, exactly what I was saying about the tax number and everything, I think it's obviously bothering you that order is being introduced in this country and that there won't be any more partial and partial charges. I repeat, Mr. Stazic, if 120 thousand kuna is the taxpayer's tax liability then it is registered and he will have to pay it with a tight rate of 15%. If there is a solution to another amount, it will be recorded in another way. And I repeat again as far as the state's attorney's office is concerned, personally or as far as I know, the tax administration hasn't received any rush or any request. Another thing, the tax administration has processed this subject and any investigative body in this country can obtain relevant facts and data. And I'm really surprised that you have that information and that I don't have it as the head of the body but at the same time you're calling me to account. I'll be responsible for where there's a responsibility but I can't answer for something where there's no responsibility. But I repeat, you'd sue, you'd judge, you'd investigate. You've done it for 50 years, so don't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85337	Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85338	Minister Shuker, I would neither investigate nor sue, nor judge. You say you have no information. I've got a daily newspaper. No one's denied it. That information could therefore have been made available to you. Debt may not be out of date but it could be criminal proceedings. He can go into obsolescence. We don't mind the introduction of order. On the contrary. We seek to introduce this order and ask why you, as Minister of Tax Administration, do not contribute to this order in such a way that Mr. Zuzul or remove or conduct the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85339	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85340	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Mrs. Jadranki Kosor, vice-president of the government and the minister of the family. In recent times, we have witnessed very tragic events, frequent tragic events, and these are violence against women, with the most tragic consequences of murdered women, which in some ways is no longer an exception but becomes a rule. In fact, almost every month when you take a period of the last two years, at least one woman has been killed by the current or former partner either married or out of wedlock. In 2005, there were 13 women, fourteen and in 2007, only in two and a half months the last four women were killed by a former or current marriage partner or an extramarital partner. I'll just mention some. First, today is exactly two years since the triple murder in Petrinja and the Kihalic case. A woman and her two friends were murdered. A month before the murder, she asked the police for help because she was threatened to kill her if she left him. In 2005, a woman was killed in the seventh month by a registered domestic bully. Five days before that, he was brought in by the police, released by the court, the welfare center didn't help. A woman was killed in Nazor in 16.6.2006. Six months before that, her husband kidnapped her, threatened her with a gun, and he was betrayed by an APB, but all that didn't save her from death. Furthermore, in Čakovec 15.8.2006, a convicted family bully killed his wife and their 18-month-old daughter. The family wasn't informed that the bully got out of jail. He was reported to have been seen with a rifle, nothing done, etc. And back a few days last solo case. So I'm actually asking you, Madam Vice President, regardless of all the strategies, protocols, laws, whether you, as Deputy Prime Minister, consider yourself responsible for what the system institutions are not doing. You're the minister of the family and your ministry by strategy and protocol has certain powers. And what do you mean by these strategies and protocols to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85341	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85342	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representative, of course I don't consider myself responsible. I find your question extremely provocative. I will not use other words because I am in the House of Higher Education in the Croatian Parliament. But I want to say a few facts, so very calm and very collected about all this. But perhaps at first I would like to remind you that, as president of the Committee on Gender Equality, you did not come here at least I invited you to present a campaign to fight violence against women. I've been calling all year, and I was expecting us to fight here together. That along with me and all the other colleagues and colleagues, you'd be involved in that fight. But we're going in a row. This government, as you know, was established by the Gender Equality Office even if it was intended to establish such an office in the term of your government or government, which was managed by the head of the SDP, so Mr Racan. We therefore expected the Gender Equality Office to be established by that time. That's what this government did. We also made a series of documents based on the Law that was passed in the past term, but a series of documents in the fight against violence against women. I'll mention the strategy. I'll mention the protocol that follows the strategy, which clearly prescribes who what? Which institution in Croatia must react when spoken or when violence occurs. Mrs. Sobol, I would like to remind you that under this protocol the police must right away, the question is, of course, whether this is always happening and working together, Mr. Secretary Kirin and I. I think I can say that most of those who have to do this do it and do it in the event of violence. So when a woman calls the police department and says her husband beats her or any other form of violence happens. Thus, in this protocol, we have established a provision, or obligation, that the police should always go immediately to the scene. That a bully must be taken away from his weapon if he has one. That a bully must be separated from his wife or family. That he had to put his family away. That the Centre for Social Care must be involved and so on and so on. To school and kindergarten. Therefore, it is a protocol that everyone in Croatia must adhere to. I repeat that there are others who have not taken this seriously but I assure you that both Minister Kirin and I, but also other ministers in the government to whom this relates, will work in a consistent manner, or work towards everything that is important in the fight against violence against women or against domestic violence. We have also made a decision that all these family items, therefore, matters related to domestic violence, will be dealt with in haste in courts. So they get the mark fast. That's why we included presidents in the campaign to fight violence against women, from the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Administrative Court. That's why we included the President of the Croatian Parliament. You were all invited. Mrs Sobol did not come to the presentation of the campaign in the Croatian Parliament when we included President of the Parliament and all representatives in the Croatian Parliament and of course representatives in the campaign against domestic violence against women, but mostly men. First of all, President-in-Office of the Parliament and distinguished MPs. We included in the campaign and the president of the state, President Mesic. Let's go with the activity and keep going. I'll call you on Saturday. It will be played as you know the match between Croatia and Macedonia where footballers will be involved in a very effective way by sending very clear messages from the stadium that violence against women is unacceptable. So what am I saying? To make every effort. We work very intensively in the fight against violence against women. And that's why I think calling me Deputy Prime Minister who, day after day with my associates, is taking steps towards curbing this violence is really difficult and I'm going to say hard to understand. And I invite you, Mrs. Sobol, to join in. Come, I'll introduce you to all that. What we've done so far, so make your contribution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85343	Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85344	Thank you. First of all, Madam Vice President, the question needs to be provocative. That's the first one. Second. At the presentation of your national campaign, your office has been called by the Vice-President of the Committee of Mrs. Carmela Caparin. Only at her intervention half a day before this happened was Gordana Sobol received a call. Second. My question just came to that. Which doesn't seem to be like a sieve when it comes to fighting domestic violence. I know strategies and protocols are important. But someone in there needs to read what he writes and what his homework is? I think you agree with that. The protocol shall not be implemented. I, unlike you, and unlike the employees of your ministry last year, have been on the ground. I worked in education and with people who are directly from competent institutions in a situation that comes in contact with victims of violence. Do you want me to take this opportunity to tell you what they're meeting and who didn't do the job? It's not about whether he's responsible, just that police officer, the lowest in the system. But who at higher levels didn't do his job when it came to their education? Of course I'm looking for a comprehensive written answer. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85345	Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85346	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question for the Prime Minister. According to data from United Nations and World Bank documents dedicated to the problem of poverty, about 780,000 people are poor in Croatia, or slightly more than 17% of our population. They're particularly threatened over 65 years old. In this population, 10% of citizens have no income whatsoever. In recent years, people who retire are in a similar situation because the pension they make after working life is so that they are on the verge of poverty. Our club proposed the introduction of the so-called so-called club. Social pensions. And the Law on Equality of Old and New Pensions. But today's Parliament's majority refused. According to my assessment, the Government in the area of combating poverty is almost without more serious initiatives. So I ask you: Does it really matter to you, so at the end of the term, it is possible to ask how in a state declared to the social state almost a fifth of the population lives on the edge of existence?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85347	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85348	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85349	Mr. Prime Minister, be kind and then for one... Why isn't he doing this, either? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85350	So there are several studies that talk about the state of different groups in Croatian society and there are pensioners and others. And that percentage of poverty that you've cited is not true, according to some others. So we can do different analyses, explore and confront them. But no matter which one of these analyses was correct, the truth is that there are poor in Croatia. You listed one group, these are Croatian pensioners or those who have no income, or those who are, who retire after the pension reform. And there's this big problem of new pensioners. You said your club proposed a law to regulate it. I will tell you that we in the Government, since we have the executive power and that we have the parliamentary majority formed together with the Pension Party and with pensioners' associations, are one commission that has the task of regulating the old and new pensioners, which is until the end of the spring session of the Parliament, until the end of July 15th in the Croatian Parliament, to present a law that will regulate the old and new pensioners, i.e. that gap that exists among them. I could answer you now, but I don't want that law you suggested to me to suggest at the time when you were in power for four years. Because even then there were new pensioners who had far less pensions than they were from those old pensioners. Well, I can ask you, but I'm not gonna ask you that. Why didn't you do it? Unlike you, we won't first of all be in a position to ask such a future government because that's what we're going to do. And until the end of the spring session of the Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85351	I don't think this device is working yet. Well, Mrs. Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85352	Thank you very much. I'm glad, and it's even more pleasant to be present and future pensioners if you solve this problem in a few months. However, you are in 4 years the pension reform began in '99. For years, so for eight years and only the last three or four years, there has been a drastic difference between old and new pensioners. However, the fight against poverty cannot be addressed by social measures. It must be addressed by economic measures, increased economic growth, increased employment. This government cannot be boasted of. The unemployed are stagnating at 300 grand somewhere. The beginning and the end of your term. And I hope the new government solves the unemployment you won't be in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85353	Thank you. Peace please, peace. Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go. Minister Ljubicic's on his way.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85354	Thank you, Mr. President, especially for this announcement. Namely, I have a question for Minister Ljubicic. Dear Ministers at the last current morning, two months ago, I asked you as a doctor who your personal position on the introduction of sexual education and education to school. You are, so I asked, I don't know what you're up against now. That's when you told me you didn't have a personal attitude, but you formed a committee for it. You also told me that you do not engage in sexism and that children should be taught how to wash their hands. There's a phonogram I can very gladly give you that answer of yours. As you know as well as I do, the extent of the epidemic of sexually transmitted diseases, as we all know very well that this is a serious public-health problem in Croatia, that this is not about any sexualism, as all research shows that education contributes significantly to prevention I ask you a clear and short question so please both such a clear and short answer. When will your commission decide on the content of sexual education in schools?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85355	Minister Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85356	This is a nice suggestion. I'm not surprised by the fact that you're young enough to be so interested in this sexual education, but I'm going back again, not talking about sexual education, I'm talking about health care. What the people say, however, is actually where the duples go, you always go around the same text, and it's the same song, same diple last time, the same text is my answer. The working group is working on it here at the beginning of next week will be completed their review and health education will be introduced in schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85357	Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Although it's already... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85358	Looks like it's working. I thank the Minister for his reply. We cannot talk about a serious problem at the point of view of qualifications. It's a nice suggestion, so I'm young, so I'm more interested in it than anyone else. And I don't think those personal qualifications are appropriate in any way. I thank you for the answer that the commission will come out with the final responsible next week, because somehow time is going on more and more, and as we have seen for some predecessor of issues, we do not solve problems in any way other than forming a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85359	Dear Representative Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85360	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's the question I'm asking the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivy Sanader. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I'm asking you what the fate of the Zeljezara Sisak is. That's what I'm asking you because a year and a half ago you answered my question that this government is taking care of and taking care of Zeljezara Sisak and how this problem will be solved within a few months. However, in less than a year, the Croatian Privatisation Fund has launched as many as 4 competitions and each one so far cancels, and when the offer is opened, it declares the valid ones, and in ten days it is incomplete. Is that how someone wants to please themselves in privatizing the Valley... Sisak? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has also been promised that Remont Caprag will be privatised in the package along with Valjaonica. However, no competition so far mentions Remont Caprag. Mr. Prime Minister, are you familiar with the contract signed very harmful to five years between the Sisak tube and the Italian company Ipex, i.e. The company of the daughter of Slovak hardware store Podbrezova. And with the contract, the Sisak pipeline is obliged to pay a million-and-a-half-euro compensation each year in the case of sales or termination of the same contract. So I ask you who signed such a bad contract? Who's going to be responsible? And who's going to buy Sisak Ironworks under these conditions?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85361	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85362	Mr. Representative! I'm glad you're still taking care of Sisak-Moslavina County and Sisak Ironworks. Thank you for your support in all these activities that the government is carrying out. And I answer the first part of your question like this. You said you'd be... You quoted me a year and a half ago, that we'd take care of all the workers at Sisak Ironworks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we took care of it. All workers get paid. The iron works. And now we come to the other part of the question. It's a privatisation, because I guess you and I both agree that taking care of the workers doesn't just mean privatizing. It's important that the hardware works, that workers receive salaries, that no one is fired, that production and social peace be maintained. Both. Now, about the privatisation. Yes, there were several attempts at privatisation. And since we've had a very bad experience with former privatisations, I mean that Russian company, then we'll be very careful how that privatisation ends. Because we don't need another try, another privatisation, so that after a year he goes and that the government has to take responsibility for the iron mill again. What I want to inform you about, and that is that all the moves regarding the privatisation of the ironworks that Caprag is involved in, therefore, he is not in the competition but in the tender documentation every one who wants to enter the privatisation knows that Caprag is included in it. But what I want to inform you is this and I think it's the greatest power of this government. That this move is also being implemented in absolute agreement and cooperation with the social partners with the unions. So the unions representing the workers of Sisak Ironworks are involved in every step of this process. Now, as far as this contract was signed by Begovic, the Deputy Prime Minister on behalf of the government gave him the order to choose to cancel the contract, to choose to correct the contract because it was made without the government's knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85363	Representative Pejo Trječević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85364	Thank you very much. I agree with you on everything you promised a year and a half ago. But the government, which then a year and a half ago helped iron workers in the next year, so the last year and a half is all she's done, it's called four contests that she's canceled. So, I find it unserious to cancel four contests. As far as the bad deal is concerned, it's a bad deal. We have information that Mr. Begovic signed the contract right on the order of Vice President Polancec I'm asking another question. [[/Intruder: Wow.]] In fact, this contract, if it was now given a warrant to break up, what did you agree with Ipex or Podbrez, what did you offer them so that they would agree to break such a harmful contract for us, and for them very favourable? So you didn't answer me who would bear the responsibility and damage by breaking up a contract like this that you said you gave the order to break up? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85365	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85366	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Minister Ljubic. Ministers, there are over 200 thousand infertile men and women in Croatia, waiting for the legal arrangement of medically assisted fertilisation. The draft law has been withdrawn from the procedure, and due to the lack of legal regulation in this area of medicine, it is completely devastated and burdened with scandals, although Croatia was among the first 6 countries in the world and 4 in Europe in this area of human reproduction. And today, you have forced our women and young couples to seek such help in one Czech Republic, Slovenia and other countries that came to Croatia before your term. I ask you, when are you going to refer the bill to the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85367	Minister of Health Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85368	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, it's not true that the law has been withdrawn. He's never been done or done. The reason is very simple and I have made it very public and clear several times. The reason is in the profession that has two concepts. The profession has to be agreed first. The profession must achieve concepts and, of course, legislation should follow the profession. That's very important. And not to happen, as it happened in your term when you didn't listen to what the profession requires, when you didn't listen to the profession, but you did what you did, which, of course, devastates the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85369	Mr. Minister! It is surprising that before the end of the term you do not know which laws have already been passed, let alone that you will be able to make any new ones. Minister Hebrang sent him, we had him on the bench, we had him on the bench. And you here in front of the public so dead, cold you say. And the abuse was and there will be. And just because these abuses are disabled, that law is necessary. And it's embarrassing really for a country that swears on population policy, to simply ignore this problem. So, it's been a whole term that today just because this area isn't regulated, which we no longer have a single dose of seed to donate, and that used to work without a problem for 30 years, is now simply blocked.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85370	Honorable representative Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85371	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! I refer the question to Minister Calmeta, but since the minister is not here, he will answer the Secretary of State. So, the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, traffic and connections. In this regard, an analysis of the road safety situation found that there was a significant increase in the number and consequences of traffic accidents on the Zagreb-Rijeka highway in 2006. There's even talk in the paper about 16 people who died. As works on one tape take place on the part of the highway to Zagreb, the fact is that the road is becoming more dangerous. The question is, what measures will be taken and taken to increase security?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85372	Secretary of State Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85373	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Representative, the Rijeka-Zagreb highway has a total length of about 150 kilometers. Two-thirds of that road was built in a full profile, so about 100 kilometers away, and about 50 kilometers was built in a highway semi-profile. This fact that oftentimes drivers, and additionally complicated by the fact that on the road, works have been committed during the transition from one regime, so from the highway regime to the semi-road regime, and the fact is that during that time, since the highway was built in the half-way profile has led to an increase in the number of accidents. What the Government is doing to contribute to a more quality, i.e. greater security on the Zagreb-Rijeka highway. In the first row, we shortened the deadlines for building a full profile of highways, so by the end of 2008, construction of highways from Zagreb to Rijeka will be completed, so the entire length of 150 kilometers will be built as a full highway. By the beginning of the tourist season, the first 9km section of which is worth 31m euros will be opened, which also speeds up the deadlines and shortened deadlines for opening that part of the highway to thus open by the beginning of the season. The remaining 44km will be completed by the end of 2008, so the entire profile will then be built in the full profile of the highway. Of the palitative solutions that we wish to urgently contribute to highway safety immediately is setting... the lane on the part of the highway, and above all in the tunnels where there was also a large number of accidents and on the parts of the semi-roads on which the line is full, i.e. no crossing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At this point, the company ALZ, so the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, is under review about setting marks with flags, i.e. rubber pillars of a height of 30 centimeters, which would practically make it impossible to cross those parts of the highway where the line is full and where the overrun is prohibited. It is also on all highways in the Republic of Croatia during activities to set up video surveillance systems for all highways in the Republic of Croatia to be in the video surveillance system, which will also make it clear to drivers how and how they must respect all traffic signs on the Croatian highways, so primarily on this road as you have said yourself, which has been very dangerous lately, so on the Rijeka-Zagreb highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85374	Representative Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85375	I am pleased with the answer, and I hope that these steps will make the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Connections much more secure and therefore do everything possible to preserve a life that does not have a price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85376	Dear Representative Vladimir Kurecic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85377	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President and members of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I am asking Minister Petar Cobankovic about the implementation of the SAPHARD programme. The SAPHARD pre-accession programme of the European Union is intended for candidate countries, is a support for the preparation for the use of funds from the Common Policy Funds later, and aims, among other things, to strengthen the competitiveness of agricultural producers and processors. Based on the national rural development plan, i.e. Two investment measures in agricultural holdings and the processing and marketing of agricultural and fishery products are being implemented by the SAPHAARD Agency, which received accreditation sometime in the second half of 2006 and a tender opened between July and the end of October, i.e. the time limit for the application of the projects. In this regard, I ask Minister Cobankovic to report on the results of the implementation of the SAPHARD so far and what follows, especially for the reason that we have recently been able to hear from part of the opposition that nothing has been launched on this issue and that nothing works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85378	Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85379	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me answer this question briefly. All that you've said, Mr. Representative, is true, the SAPHARD is intended for those purposes. But let me say that Croatia as an accession country has, as soon as possible, created a presumption of the availability of the SAPHARD Fund. From the preparation of the plan and the establishment of the SAPHARD Agency, to the accreditation of the SAPHARD Agency, Croatia has managed to do so in just 16 months, as compared with other accession countries so far as is the shortest possible deadline. The competition was opened after obtaining accreditation and the competition was held from 26 July 2006 until 31 October 2006. It's here. 51 requests have been received. Following the processing and analysis of the request, only 5 projects were allowed to be used by SAPHARD. I'm only saying 5, but I must also point out that in the accession countries in most of the accession countries, the first competition has not passed a single project. I mean, it's a little bit to get a certain width in the knowledge of the problem. What's important to emphasize? That, from the preparation of the request, the submission of the application, until the decision has been made, the SAPHAARD shall act on the principles of how financial support is provided in the European Union. So this is something different from the way the support in the Republic of Croatia has been used so far, and therefore, I consider the SAPHAARD pre-accession programme not only to be operational, I would say the material benefits of our agriculture, but it is in the function of education and preparation of our agriculture for the use of the European Union's common budget for agriculture. But let me, we have seen certain problems through the conduct of this competition, which is why it is limited and reduced the possibility of selecting a number of projects. For these reasons, we have negotiated this with the European Commission and we have obtained agreement on the conditionality of the economic mitigation on the one hand. On the other hand, there was one provision that companies that had 1% of state ownership could not participate and participate in pre-accession assistance. So we eased up, we were able to agree on the mitigation of economic criteria on the one hand and on the other hand the ownership structure that the state can have a very small percentage and that these companies can compete. And now in preparation for a new tender, I expect that a new tender will be launched at the end of this week and under these new criteria that will apply to the new tender, in the analysis of the requirements that have been made, another 20 requests would meet these current criteria. What does that mean? It means that in the next competitions, and the tenders will be held until the end of 2007, I am convinced that Croatia will be the country that will make the most of the funds from the SAPARD pre-accession fund. It means that our agriculture and the food industry has prepared and prepared to use funds in accordance with European Union procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85380	Representative Vladimir Kurečić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85381	Thank you. The SAPARD funds form 75% of the European Union budget and 25% is the share of the Republic of Croatia. These funds are financed by 50% of the eligible expenditure of projects with which the Republic of Croatia, with most raw materials, could be transferred to processing, i.e. final production and thus eventually become competitive in the vast European market, and so the implementation of the SAPARD is of great importance. In that sense, I thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85382	Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85383	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government with members, I will refer my question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Ivica Kirin. Mr. Minister, I think it is unnecessary here to point out what importance the police have in society. Also today, several parliamentary issues mention police and their work. We are aware of the changed roles of police in today's society, new aspects of police action that require new resources, so new people and new police relations. This also sets out new requirements, new knowledge and skills of police officers. My question is: What measures does the Ministry of the Interior take with the aim of introducing and implementing the necessary changes in the system of education and complementary vocational education, which is very important at this time for the Croatian police?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85384	Home Secretary, Hansel Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85385	Thank you very much. The respected MPs are very clear that the security pillar of this state is police, and the police can only work quality and even better if they have proper education and professional training in their entire system. So in the system when young trainees come to the moment when we have the lifelong education of our officers where we have to prepare them for new and homework, and new changes in terms of the adoption of knowledge and skills because we are aware that both the structure and crime are changing, but to change, here we have a new concept that was terrorism that ten years ago we watched on television in other countries, but unfortunately this threat is also very visible today and in the environment of our countries. Therefore, police officers in terms of the adoption of knowledge and skills must, above all, be in, monitored for the development of new technologies, greater mobility, means increasing the scope of people, transport and goods, integration processes, the gradual eradication of interstate borders, which will happen after Croatia's entry into the European Union, economic, political and social changes that occasionally cause both conflict situations and social unrest. Changes in the field of police and professional training focus primarily on the process of professionalisation, modernisation and rationalisation of police work and are based on the reform of education in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the legal regulations and all forms of education and professional training conducted by the Police Academy as the establishment unit of the Ministry of the Interior, a specialised institution in which basic and specialist training of police cadets, students, officials and trainees is organised and implemented. So we have a basic police education where it's being conducted at the Police School as a founding unit of the Police Academy. This means here and this year there is an ongoing competition where we receive pre-qualifications, so young people who have graduated from high school and where they go through 16 months of schooling through a program after which they pass a state-run professional police calling exam, which makes them police officers or, officials. We also have a higher school education to call a criminal who is also conducted at the Higher Police School in the founding unit of the Police Academy where the Higher Police School received a certificate from the Ministry of Science, Education and Education for the conduct of postgraduate and graduate vocational studies. It is also very important to say that through international cooperation in direct contact with experts from the field of police education of many countries in Europe and the world, most of all from the Federal Republic of Germany, Austria, France, Hungary, Slovenia, the Netherlands and other European countries, as well as the United States and Canada, and some other countries outside Europe are developing models, methods and content of these forms of education. International cooperation takes place through the so-called so-called. Twing projects within CARDS and PHARE programmes and direct bilateral cooperation with other countries, direct cooperation between experts in certain areas and what is the most important participation of our experts in conferences, symposiums and seminars abroad, as well as the hosting of those experts from those countries in the Republic of Croatia. What is very important, the focus of development in the professional part and education and education was placed at the Police Academy where we will now introduce new methods, first for existing police officers, but also for future leaders and chiefs of police administrations in order to overcome those skills that they did not need so far, and that is, above all, communicology, related to the public and exactly a presentation of police work so that citizens know how to spend their tax money, because police are obliged to publish their work transparently and publicly in public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85386	Representative Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85387	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm happy with the answer. Why did I ask you that question? Because there is really little talk about police education when it comes to overall education in Croatia. And we are aware of the major changes in education, we have opted for building a knowledge-based society, on lifelong learning, which includes certainly the education of police personnel, and so far, very little has been heard and known about in the system of overall education.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85388	Honorable representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85389	Your Honor, I would like to ask the question either to the Prime Minister, Mr Sanader or Minister Cobankovic. I think we'll all agree in this house that we are against every form of discrimination, segregation, minorization, etc. However, just in action is one of the most perfided, most devastating, ground-based discrimination against the citizens of Istria compared to the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and this is best seen when buying so-called State agricultural land. While prices are determined everywhere in Croatia on the basis of some tables of the competent minister, so farmers in Zagorje, Međimurje, Lika, Slavonia, Dalmatia, Primorje, Baranja, Prigorje, etc. square buys for 0.5 to 1.5 kuna in Istria is the principle of market prices and square buys people for 10 to 75 kuna per metre. At that price, the country will not buy a single farmer, it will only be bought by a mechanic and this should be avoided as should the law that, in the case of the sale of that country, these peasants who, under favourable conditions, bought the same doors to the State, or offers to the State. So I'm asking for an answer so that Istriane is not first of all discriminated against. I ask that under the same conditions as the Slavons, the Dalmatians, Zagorci and Istriana be included in the purchase of the country and not that there are two meters as if they were Istrians in '43. Joined the stepmothers, not the queens. This creates huge problems, Mr. Minister and Mr. President, for the people. No peasants without land. If he doesn't have his own country, he can't get to the state's incentives. If he doesn't have his own land, he can't go to credit. If he doesn't have his own country, he can't get to these funds and the SAPARD program. And in one word, this is what many people in that area simply humiliate and insult.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85390	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85391	Apparently, there is some conclusion in your ministry that the country will not sell to the Istrians until the elections. Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85392	Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85393	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable ladies' representatives and gentlemen's representatives. I must really refuse all illusions of any attempt, not to say these difficult words of segregation, discrimination or not give God any guidance that exists in my ministry. I mean, I reject it most vigorously, and I don't think it's even appropriate in this house to say it that way. The rules concerning the availability of agricultural land apply to the whole of the Republic of Croatia in the same and the same way and are governed by the Agricultural Land Act, which states that the competent tax administration determines the initial price for sale, lease and concession. The initial price is the market price in the area where the land is located. The Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, came forward in 2002 and forwarded it to the tax administration offices in which it regulated the way in which the market price was determined. Units of local self-government in the submission of a decision to tender for the lease or sale of agricultural land owned by the State on the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, with the remaining necessary documentation, shall be subject to the application and the price of the land concerned issued by the relevant tax administration. Now, there's a problem. This is a question of establishing a market price in a given space. I would not say whether it is unfortunately or fortunately the prices of agricultural land in different parts of the Republic of Croatia are different and by establishing the market price is normal that there are certain differences. And dear friends, I don't get into any speculation at all, but there's no way a system can be created in a way that agricultural land is a multiple agricultural private land, sold at a more expensive price than state land. And if we are already at the price I will tell about those tenders that came for sale of agricultural land in the Ministry of Agriculture which were partly granted the approval to call for tenders and some had already received the consent of the selection of bidders, so I will say that for Brtonigla municipality the initial market price was 13 thousand per hectare, that for Buje this price was 13 thousand 100 kuna per hectare, that Kršanj was 56 thousand kuna per hectare, that for Visnjan 21 thousand kuna per hectare, for Umag 13 thousand and 200, for Vodnjan the price was moving and there was a maximum price of 50 to 150 thousand kuna. The approvals for tendering received all units of local self-government except Vodnjan precisely because... Prices. [[The speaker is not understood because of the presidential bell.]] Consent to select the most favourable bidders were awarded the Brtonigla municipality for one contest, the Višnjan municipality for its competition, the city of Buje and the city of Buzet. And that's the truth. We have a certain problem in determining the market price. This was discussed on several occasions by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy with representatives of both local and regional self-government. Mr. Prime Minister also discussed the issue and we try to resolve it but within the framework of existing and valid legislation of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85394	Thank you. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85395	Of course I'm not happy. Either you, Mr. Minister, are cheating on us, or someone is cheating on you. No Brtonigla, no Buja, no Umag, etc. They didn't get permission to sell that country. And that's not where we should just paint. The market price is for Istrians only. Croatia has three, four defence attorneys, that regiment over, for children, for women. Looks like you're supposed to be getting for the disabled now, and then the pensioners, but it looks like you should get a lawyer for the Istrians. Don't discriminate against us, Mr. Minister. Don't do that, 'cause 1991. ... The second price is everywhere else... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] And it can't go through. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] No one can in the last three, four, five months... Buy not one centimetre... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] agricultural land. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] And that's just something, a practice that needs to be stopped. Our people can't get to the loan, they can't... I can't participate in this SAPARD program and I think that practice should stop. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85396	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Joseph Leko Order! [[You can't tell the truth.]] Order! Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85397	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected members of the Croatian Government. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I give you my question. Many citizens, especially entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, ask me how they can protect their interests in the procurement process. And representatives of the European Union even to you, and warn you of the abuse of the Anti-Corruption Public Procurement Act. They are particularly warning about the amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, which your Government has sent to the Croatian Parliament of 2,000, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85398	Order! Order! Peace, fellow Cain! Order! Agent Cain, peace! The potter is at peace! Peace be upon you two! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85399	Let me do it again. Many citizens, especially entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, ask me how they can protect their interests in the procurement process. The representatives of the European Union warn you that the abuse of the public procurement procedure in the Republic of Croatia is very important. Special warning is given on the amendment and addition of the Public Procurement Act that your Government sent, and the parliamentary majority brought in 2005 and thus made it possible for public procurement to be carried out by so-called. the procedure for the negotiation procedure without publication of the tender. Of course, there is a wide range of abuses and corruption at the Institute of Public Procurement. Here is an example, in the 12th month for Christmas under the direct contract procedure, the negotiating procedure without the publication of the Croatian railway tender concludes the business of half a billion kuna, and the reason is the rapid change of the project, so haste. And the job has to be done within 42 months. That really doesn't stand for the simplest logic. Therefore, there has undoubtedly been an abuse of the Institute of Public Procurement through the negotiation process. Please answer me what will your government do after two years of poor law enforcement practice that you have proposed to change?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85400	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85401	Mr. Representative, you've brought forth a series of inaccuracies. The first is that you are saying what the European Commission and we are telling the members of the government. That's not true. Members of the European Commission and the negotiating team praise all government and action moves. We have the latest yesterday that Minister Lovrin is in the European Commission in a conversation with Commissioner Rehn with the European Parliament's parliamentarians, and I was also interviewed by members of the European Parliament of this Joint Parliamentary Committee of Croatia and the European Parliament, who have just taken the opposite of what you have reached by trying to deceive the public. So this is the fact. We have adopted these amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act in agreement with the European Commission. It's the first fact that refutes this of yours that you've brought out. Another fact is that over the year, given that there are new European Commission directives, we will adopt a new Public Procurement Act, which will cover the whole, but will be absolutely compatible with the practice and directives of the European Union and the European Commission. And thirdly, there is one body of Parliament that this parliamentary majority has not touched at all, but has given it the support to continue working on that body that the former parliamentary majority in which you were elected. So the Public Procurement Commission. We gave them support to work. Just to highlight our interest and our support in the effort to achieve full transparency of public procurement. So much for that. I would like you to join us, not now party positions, criticising otherwise good government moves to join us in the fight together so that what you're talking about in the City of Zagreb and elsewhere where, where holding up in a direct contract gets jobs etc., etc. So let us not politicise, let us not party to these important things for which there is a high degree of interest in the Croatian public. I expect your support in the case of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85402	Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85403	Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I expected such an answer exactly as you said. But now I'm going to answer something for you. That policy has been read. In the framework of the mandate, open the press and close the press at the end of the term of office. What I was saying about the European Union is quotes from the European Commission Report, and you have also told Mr Pancic that the European Commission's suggestion is that you are changing the entire Public Procurement Act. Then be congenital, whether it is necessary to change it at the end of the term of office and why you let it take so long as it lasts. So you had a reason why you suggested it, why it lasted just until the end of the term. That's what citizens recognize, Mr. President. It's a policy read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85404	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85405	Thank you. My question is to the Prime Minister, Dr. Evey Sanader. The citizens of the Karlovac County have received and are still receiving a practical lesson from the applied contemporary capitalism in the Croatian way. They received the lesson in the case of Heineken's carnival brewery and the Martinovic family tragedy. The arrogant and unscrupulous attitude of a multinational company and the creamy relationship of power. The lesson continues in the case of Josipdol where foreign investors again in the company with our trying to open a plastic waste burner in another unpolluted part of the county. The potential lesson of citizens also comes from the state. In the area of the county there is a military polygon, a Sunj exercise site that is not subject to any control of the release of dangerous substances into the environment by civil authorities. There is, there is a provision in the Defense Act that says the Department of Defense will only organise that control. My question is precisely this third lesson. In order to prevent future tragedies, I would like to hear from the prime minister, who has already passed the implementing rules of the Croatian Government, and how does he control the protection of the environment in military facilities in Croatia? It's especially about Slunj practice. Or when will you allow civil society and civilian control of the emissions of dangerous substances to the environment to function on military facilities in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85406	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85407	Mr. Representative, first of all, it is not true that there are two criteria and two criteria. So here's the secretary of state and comes from one consultation, and the practice is that environmental inspections and controls are carried out both in military facilities and in civil equal. It's a fact and it's something you can't deny because it works like that. Secondly, I agree with you in one way that all those who invested in Croatia were domestic investors or foreign investors to subject them to stronger control and awareness of the need to preserve the environment and to prevent them from being polluted. But let's not just talk about foreign investors because it wouldn't be good to create a climate against foreign investment. Every investor who wants to open jobs in Croatia, every entrepreneur is welcome. If he respects Croatian laws, practices, pays taxes and contributions and respects environmental protection. Therefore, this case of Pivovara is a good case of warning all those in Croatia including the government that environmental protection must be given much more attention than it has been so far. And that the inspection services are taking a lot more to the ground and that these cases are reduced to the least possible measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85408	Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85409	I agree. The case would've been good if a) a man hadn't died and b) had it not been eight months since the last inspection at the Karlovac brewery. But I am not satisfied, of course, with the question of control of pollution from military facilities. I would like to request a written reply with an accurate list of implementing acts that have been adopted and a control action carried out on military facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85410	A written answer. Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85411	Thank you very much. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs. Maria Byte for pointing out once again the lag behind Slavonia and Baranja in relation to other regions in Croatia and stressing unemployment of more than 20%. Over 20%. Of course, Minister Vukelic, which his Ministry intends to encourage new jobs and especially invest in entrepreneurship zones. Minister Vukelic will confirm that the town of Osijek on the website of the Croatian Ministry of Economy does not have a single business economic zone. I don't think the fourth-largest city in the Republic of Croatia deserves it, and that's inadmissible. Mr. President of the Croatian Government two years ago, it was agreed that the City of Osijek would receive land from the Croatian government or that it would transfer the property of the country to the city of Osijek. [[Intruder: They don't because there's no land.]] The deals have been going on for almost two years. We have your promises. All the preconditions of the City of Osijek have been made. Done even a write-off of the request to the Republic of Croatia of two and a half million kunas. Demining the area intended for a single business zone worth more than 11 million kuna. All documents are in competent state institutions. The signing of the state government, or your signature of Mr. President of the Croatian Government, is awaiting that the city of Osijek finally gets an economic zone, or this land, so that something can be done there. It's all right now. It's not in the interest of the city of Osijek or the citizens. Neither Osijek City nor Osijek-Baranja County, which is certainly not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia either. And I expect this, a deal from two years ago, to be realized. Question referred to you when will finally come to the realization of land ownership transfer for economic zones from the Republic of Croatia... [[The speaker is disabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85412	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85413	Mr. Representative, first of all, it is not true that Slavonia is abandoned. Because you and your two, two colleagues haven't said that in the past 15 years while you've been in this situation, and when you need to collect political points, then Slavonia is abandoned to you. Slavonia is not abandoned. Slavonia is now the same as other Croatian regions and ultimately has a very dynamic economy and strong support for this Croatian government and this Croatian Parliament. So much for that. So you use that, I'd say one, one syntagma that everyone will sensitize when you need it for political purposes but it won't go away because it's simply not true. The other around the zone. You weren't on that deal, so you don't even know what we agreed? There were others on that deal. But what we agreed at the time will be respected. As PAMPAS was respected, the PAMPAS project so I would pray that on such occasions when you speak to those voters whom you or those citizens of Osijek think you can influence then tell them what the Government has done and that it is building corridor 5C. That we're about to open the Djakovo-Medrans stock. To move on, the Osijek-Djakovo shares continue and continue towards the White monastery. So we'll end corridor 5C within the time limit we've imagined. That this government, Mr. Sišljagić, is investing 400 million kunas in the Eastern Slavonia water supply network, because we are ashamed that any Croatian household in the 21st century has no water. Whether it's in the Zadar hinterland or in Eastern Slavonia. Yes, this government has launched a whole series of projects that Mr. Shakespeare has also supported and which I hope you do, too. But my hope is that you support these projects, was disappointed and was not achieved in the vote on the 2007 Budget, because when we talked about the budget and the projects for the city of Osijek and for Osijek-Baranja County, you three were against or you were reluctant or you left, I can't remember, but you didn't support the budget and thus these projects. That's true. And now around the zone. We had one meeting the other day, I will be happy to present it to you here in front of the Croatian public, where the meeting was held by Djakic, but also as mayor of Osijek, President of the Parliament and State Secretary Kovacevic and Ivić, Minister Cobankovic, where we agreed that these problems that occurred in the transfer procedure in the ownership or giving of the right to construction, so we will agree on what will eventually be. In the end, we're going to do what's best for entrepreneurs in those three zones, it's about three zones. It'll probably be a transfer to property, but we still have to clear that up. So on the initiative of the State Secretary, the parliamentary representative, the mayor, the President of the Parliament, we encouraged those problems that remained in the administration to be solved. The political will is here and the deal was not two years ago but a year and a few months ago. So you're exaggerating, you don't know, you weren't at that meeting, and you're trying to politicize an important topic for Osijek. We will build, the state will help the city of Osijek to raise three entrepreneurial zones and that there entrepreneurs, either from Slavonia, or from other parts of Croatia, come and invest from the world, to open jobs. Our wish was to be production jobs and manufacturing companies, not businesses. There's a deal between the President of the Parliament, the mayor and us to move on as soon as possible and we'll make it happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85414	Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85415	Now, my Prime Minister, you're using the Parliament for politicizing, partying, just you. You have spent 90% of the time in your exhibition to celebrate the successes of this government and projects in Slavonia and Baranja, and I will tell you that I support all the projects you are doing in Slavonia and Baranja and not just me, but all the Slavons and Baranians. But I've asked you for entrepreneurial zones, for a country where you've been looking at the chicare you've been looking at for two years and where nothing has been resolved since the beginning of your term. The same is true when we were in your party, and we also advocated, among other things, a breakthrough and a better life in Slavonia and Baranja. ... The party is called HDSSB. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So you didn't answer my question. I asked you when you'd finally solve it because you're running out of time, you're very little left with the position of someone who can solve it, so I'm looking for a written answer when you're going to solve this problem of economic zone, or land in the city of Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85416	Dear Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85417	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome all government members headed by the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. I will refer my question to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, Tourism and Development, here present Secretary of State, Mr Branko Bačić, and it refers to the construction of the Peljesac Bridge - mainland. Namely, two days ago, the head of all municipalities from Peljesac, therefore the head of the Municipality of Ston, the head of Trpanj, the head of the municipality of Janjina and the head of Orebić municipality as well as the head of the municipality of Dubrovnik coast expressed their unreserved support for the construction of the Peljesac Bridge – the mainland and in fact asked for the entry of the project as soon as possible, so that the start of the bridge would be as soon as possible. Given the fact that indeed most of our fellow citizens, and precisely through their political representatives, so through these community heads, support the construction of this bridge. Given the fact that there are working groups of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are interested in what stage the talks with Bosnia and Herzegovina came, which have been reached and given the fact that this government adopted, in fact the Croatian Parliament adopted in the 200m kuna budget planned for the construction of the bridge as early as 2007 which means a full commitment to start building this capital facility that connects Croatia into one whole, please answer us when concrete construction of the Pelješac bridge – the mainland will begin, according to your arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85418	State Secretary Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85419	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. Dear Mr. Representative, exactly what you have presented in the section relating to the activities of the Croatian Government, i.e. the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development in the construction of the mainland bridge – Pelješac or better said Komarna – Pelješac. The project itself is one of the most important infrastructure projects in the Republic of Croatia, and it is certainly the most important and important project for the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska. In that sense, the project is extremely demanding, and I will only say three reasons that speak of the legality of the project. The first reason is the fact that it is built in an area where the landscape of nature is protected, so small seas and small Stone, which should achieve very high criteria for the protection of this marine environment. On the other hand, its demand is also reflected in the fact that it is built on a small sea area where there is not enough stable soil and requires large works on its foundation. And the third reason is that its construction under the international Convention on Law must require the provision of the right to safe passage of Bosnia and Herzegovina to and from Neum-Klek Bay. In this regard, the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, established a working group for negotiations with a working group established by the minister of transport of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These two working groups have held several joint meetings over the past two years, and the last meeting was held in December in Sarajevo where we defined the right to clear what is the unequivocal right of the Republic of Croatia to connect its two territories, but on the other hand we have defined the height of the bridge and the dimensions of the bridge which will ensure the right to the safe passage of the neighbouring country. This note and signed, agreed and from this note came the obligation that our two ministries form a protocol which will also define the procedure, i.e. monitoring on the construction of a bridge which will therefore provide all the highest standards that we have prescribed in... the environment for the conservation of the marine environment in that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, at this point, this protocol is therefore made up and coordinated between our two resolution ministries and I believe that by signing it, practically all of those obligations that the Republic of Croatia had under the International Convention on Law must be fully met and that all assumptions for the start of bridge construction were created. Otherwise, construction works on the bridge are under way in a way that access roads are completed on the land side, and that very soon these days will begin work on access roads on the Pelješka side. There is also a tender for project design under way, and we expect to open competitions for the performance of works through April. In any case, we expect the works to begin at the end of August, that is, in early September, concrete works at the beginning of the construction of the mainland-Peljesac bridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85420	Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85421	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I am pleased with your response, there will certainly be the public of Dubrovnik-Neretva County who is looking forward to the start of construction, and I am also quite sure that all our other citizens throughout Croatia will support this capital project that really connects Croatia into one whole. But that's also the answer to those wrinkles that are one day for the bridge, and the other day they're against the bridge. Fortunately, they are in some political parties that do not decide the future of the bridge. I thank you on behalf of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85422	Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85423	A question for Secretary of State Bacic. The Port of Ploche. The port of Ploče may have wider importance for the economy of the wider region, but in the CECT as well as some other Member States of the European Union such as Hungary, Slovakia, as well as a number of other Central European countries. Furthermore, the transport of Ploče with Italian companies at the end of last year was particularly important to highlight it was bigger than with companies from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Looking at the port of Ploče in a broader regional context as a port of wider regional economic importance, the creation of infrastructure assumptions for its further growth is extremely important. I would say as important as the change in perception that it is exclusively a port in the function of the local economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. In line with these ambitious objectives, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and the port administration of Ploče jointly prepared a project of integration of trade and transport with the help of the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as well as support of the Croatian Government. Construction of a new container freight terminal allows for increased competitiveness and further growth of the economy and the development of the entire region. The Republic of Croatia reaffirms its concrete contribution to strengthening regional co-operation with this project. All of this should allow for stronger regional positioning of the port of Ploče and strengthening the overall economy of the wider gravity area of the port of Ploče, both in the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is no doubt that Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy played a very important role in the development and growth of the Ploca port, but it is also true that the Ploce port played a very important role in the development and growth of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy. But what is most important, Mr. Secretary of State, can you say how preparations are under way, concrete preparations for the construction and expansion of the Ploca port, given that the credit arrangement on its construction was signed with the World Bank at the end of last year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85424	Secretary of State Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85425	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear Mr. Representative, as you yourself stated, the project of building a terminal for scattered cargo and container terminals in the port of Ploče is one of the most important projects of the port system. The port of Ploče is the second largest port in the Republic of Croatia, but it is important to look at the fact that it is an export or entry arm of a wider region, so not only the Republic of Croatia, but wider regions. In this sense, we have also set out together with the port administration of the Panel to implement this project, which is worth 91m euros financially, and which project therefore involves the construction of a decommissioned cargo terminal that will be able to cover 5 million tonnes of cargo, i.e. a container terminal, which will allow about 45 thousand container units to be overloaded after the realization. At this moment, as you said yourself, we signed a contract with the World Bank, the contract was signed in January and ratified here in the Croatian Parliament, and the contract allows for the outflow of quality financial resources of 58 million and 800 000 euros, but the remaining amount is also secured by the European Bank's loan for reconstruction and development of 11 million and 200 thousand euros and also by state direct subsidisation of the state budget of 21 million euros. At this point at the end is the construction permit for the construction of a multi-purpose terminal, so container terminal, and we expect that construction of a container terminal will begin after the summer, and the construction permit for the decommissioned cargo terminal will be completed. But what is important and what I want to say is that before that, the works at the port of Ploče will begin, in a way that by changing the highway construction plan from Split to Ploč, we have decided to start the works and the ports of Ploče towards the Karamatić knot on the Split-Ploče highway and that the material to be created from this will be used from the construction of that part of the highway to prepare the port itself for the construction of these terminals. In this way, one good co-operation between the port administration and the Croatian highways and Croatian roads will provide about 100m euros, will save. How much does it cost, how much does it cost to build a bridge from the highway to the Karamatići dispute and thus Croatia's highways will not need to pay for land insurance, and on the other hand, the port administration will not need to provide additional resources for the supply and distribution of materials in Luc Ploče itself. Therefore, the work takes place according to the agreed deadlines and how the complete construction of Luke Ploče itself should be realised at the end of August, therefore, at the beginning of September of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85426	Thank you very much for your answer. It is certain that a 70m-euro investment in Luka Ploče deserves special attention. The same as the fact that Luka Ploče connects with the Adriatic-Ionian road, that it builds Corridor 5C with full intensity in the part for which the Republic of Croatia is responsible. But I believe you will also agree with that fact and the finding that the need for Luka Ploche to have wider regional significance is increasingly stressed. The port of Ploce cannot remain a prisoner of perception that it is a port of local importance for the local economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the south of Croatia. It deserves a broader perception, wider support and will definitely have a wider and more significant role for this entire space in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85427	Dear Representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85428	Dear Mr. President, I refer my question to the Minister of Health, Mr. Neven Ljubic. Mr. Ministers last July's debate in Parliament was the amendment to the Health Protection Act last year. That's the law that passed. There's been a very heated debate. What you pointed out when you explained your bill was words of quality, efficiency and all that this law should actually contain. But in the transitional provisions of the law passed in July last year, it is your obligation, in Article 83, to adopt within 6 months regulations that would allow the law to be applied. It's been more than six months, almost twice six months yet, and you've passed the rules according to the information we can see from the People's Newspaper. And if it's important things, I'm just going to make a few points. The rules should address the issue of telemedicine, categorisation of medical technical equipment, establishment of health institutions, sanitary transport, crisis stations and other rules should be adopted and not adopted. The question is brief and clear. Why did you not bring the regulations and when you would bring them in and thus fulfill your legal obligation and enable the law to be applied? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85429	Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85430	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, sir, I am pleased that you have raised this question of quality because the real quality of health care is something we are trying to do and what we want to do. The occasion here today is here in front of the Croatian public to say something that is extremely important, which is that here we are at the end of the Health Quality and Accreditation Act, something that we have received and full support from the European Commission which has also helped us to produce this act, an act that will definitely be marked, I will say this clearly, a milestone in Croatian health. As far as the regulations are concerned, there are 23 under the law package. The law is voted as you yourself know because you've actually supported a good part of that package and I think even everything as a club representative. So we've brought about 40% of those 23 sublegal acts to this day. I always love my students, here and I'm going to say one thing today, and that's less I'm worried about quality, and more, less quantity, more quality. And just to make quality sublegal acts that will really come to life, that will have full consensus and professions and our social partners, everyone who is involved in this system, we go slowly but we go safely because all these rules are actually living and can be clearly seen in our health institutions and in the system at all. What's important is to say that here we are somewhere in the middle of next month with one single package of 5 sublegal acts, 5 sublegal acts that, for the first time in 15 years, will see the light of day, and these are about informed patient consent, for the first time we will have a uniform common medical documentation as a prerequisite for quality monitoring.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85431	Representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85432	Mr. Minister, I am partially pleased with your response. I was just about to raise the question of quality with my own question. But in this, in this whole problem, the issue of quick application is one of the very important issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85433	Dear Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85434	Mr. President, Prime Minister, Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. Croatia has long adopted strategic and programming documents to protect and support the rights of disabled persons or persons with special needs. Among other things, their labour rights are legally required by the company to employ a certain number of employees and disabled persons, therefore in the quota. Unfortunately, however, it is only more or less a dead letter on paper, a law that is weak or not implemented. Even those environments where we have a high percentage of employment growth, I will only mention Varazdin, which last year has a Croatian record of 36% employment growth of only 0% is the employment of disabled people. In other parts of Croatia, it is even worse. I ask the question, I immediately give an initiative modelling Austria and Germany where, if the company does not respect and if the legislation on the obligation to hire disabled persons cannot be obtained from the state. For example, any company in Austria, Germany that enters a public tender and wins in a public tender, so closes the deal if it does not meet these legal conditions, then the state imposes on them to satisfy legal conditions for the employment of persons with special needs. I think that such measures of positive discrimination should be introduced because unfortunately we have quite a bad situation with the employment of such persons that you know for yourself that they become both health and social not to say burden but certainly the health and social concerns of the state. I think we'd better try and hire them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85435	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85436	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I fully agree with you on everything you've said and everything you've talked about. In fact, we are very often all witnessing the fact that many even employers when it comes to employment, but in all other areas of life are actually prone to very often, I repeat, honor of exceptions, prejudices and the fact that disabled people must, with prejudice, overcome real and real and many obstacles in human heads. And exactly in accordance with your thinking we are here, at the end of the development of the National Strategy for Persons with Disabilities in the Republic of Croatia for the next period. And, of course, in this strategy too, we will pay particular attention to the possibilities or better said equalising opportunities and to hiring people with disabilities, but also in all other areas of life. I'll mention a fund that you know works in Croatia. The fund through which we encourage the employment of people with disabilities. Here, I'd also like to list a few companies that have received support from this fund from the New souvenir from Sirač with whom there have been very many problems... Then Rehabilitation facilities for disabled persons with professional rehabilitation, URIHO in Zagreb, then AURELAS INFORMATION, a protected workshop... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , Zelinka, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I agree with you, that there is much more to be done. And here we have, in accordance with these efforts, also on the agenda of this session, this session of the Croatian Parliament is also the government's proposal for the establishment of the Office of Advocates for Persons with Disabilities. This is also in line with the recommendations of the various documents and of the Council of Europe and with the Convention of Persons, i.e. for the rights of persons with disabilities of the United Nations, which Croatia will sign among the first this month in the United Nations in New York. So it will certainly be one of the greatest if not the greatest human rights document in this century. And the Croatian government has decided that it was also a recommendation, here is to send in this case the Deputy Prime Minister for the signing of the Convention. There will be how much I am informed of the presence and representative Škulić and another likely person with disabilities. So that's how we want to give full support. But not only support this document but apply it immediately through all our documents in Croatia, but also through real moves. Therefore, I think we agree on the point of view that more needs to be done. We are here, in this week we will sign or finish one big job and about a personal assistant for people with the most difficult disability in Croatia. The signing will be Friday. Therefore, I think I can say that this large group of people is about 10% of the population in Croatia and very much at the centre of our attention. And I agree with you hiring is one of the most important issues. And through documents, in particular through the National Strategy, we will provide additional mechanisms for employers to employ disabled persons and for this to have certain incentives, i.e. support and state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85437	Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85438	Thank you very much for your answer. Just think about this proposal. Therefore, positive discriminatory measures that those companies wishing to conclude with the state of affairs or other public authorities should therefore comply with these legal obligations. It may even be a condition prescribed by the competition. That's right in Germany, for example.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85439	Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85440	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer my question to the vice-presidents of the government, the minister of the family, the defender and the intergenerational solidarity of Mrs. Kosor. You have announced that the Institute of Personal Assistant will remain in this year for people who are dependent solely on other people's assistance in all self-care activities. Namely, it is about persons moving with wheelchairs, accompanied, or in a wheelchair with an electric motor. We've heard that this year's competition is over. And can you keep us informed of the results of the competition, since it is an interest in the real population of people with the most difficult degree of disability?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85441	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85442	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Representative. Here, these two questions are good for each other. As I said earlier to Mr. Representative Chehok, we will sign contracts for this institution on Friday, or for the first time in Croatia, a personal assistant for people with the most difficult disability. It means with the people he'll be using, but also with the associations he went through, the competition and the personal assistants. This is the second year of this project that shows itself determined. In the last year, 76 people participated in this project, i.e. 76 people with disabilities and 76 personal assistants. This year, after the competition, the round expands to 176. Therefore, individuals who have had a personal assistant will still have it and the circle is increasing to 176 people with the most difficult disability that they have met, of course, and associations that have run for competition conditions. We're also here, I'm happy to point out that we also increased the funds for a personal assistant with 3 million and 200 and slightly more thousands of kuna last year to 8 million 692 thousand kuna. So an increase of more than nearly 5.5 million kuna. These are lottery funds, however, they are, of course, shown in the budget and that is what I think the best possible funds spent when talking about supporting people with disabilities. What should be encouraged by this institute, and we will prepare the Law on personal assistants during this year, so the philosophy of the independent life of the most difficult disabled. So those who are immobilized, because the personal assistant is exclusively their extended arm. So to do whatever we do, all of us who don't have that kind of difficulty from going to the hairdresser to personal hygiene, doing business. So, all the exclusive commanding officer to say so is the person who decides what to do, or what to do a personal assistant is a disabled person who's got a personal assistant. What's new is we're going with a project inside that project for young people who are disabled, meaning 18 to 65 years old. They must be of age because they are, in fact, employers in this business or project. And this is a project that really helps and opens up a new site in life for people with the hardest disability in the Republic of Croatia. And here I repeat, by the end of this year we will also start with a law that will create legal frameworks to turn this from the pilot of the project into something that will be quite normal in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85443	Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85444	Thank you very much for your answer. I especially thank you for solving the problem in Sirač in Souvenir our company and I express my satisfaction not only on my behalf but on behalf of the users, on behalf of the family and the wider community in which such disabled people live. Surely it will increase their confidence in life.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85445	Dear Representative Stjepan Fiolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85446	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr Peri Cobankovic. Mr. Minister, more and more have been politicising lately with the emergence of swine fever on the collapse of pigmeat producers and the destruction of villages and peasants. Because of the politicisation of Dubravica and Fiolic farms in "The Evening List" headlines appeared for no reason. Mr. Minister, what is the situation in this economic branch today, and what do you expect in the future of this production?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85447	Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85448	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, here I am going to strive in the shortest lines to paint the current situation regarding swine fever. From New Year's Eve to today we have established classical swine fever in 49 courtyards in the area of seven counties. For the purpose of the eradication of classical swine fever over that period, 2 thousand 186 pigs of different categories were killed. The disease occurs most often in economies where it is held from ten to a hundred pieces of pig for the sake of loads or production of blankets. A large number of confirmed primary cases are also related to a long period of the so-called period of time. the silent spread of the disease. I would also like to say that, in accordance with this, we have made certain orders and that the orders are aimed at reducing the possibility of enlargement, including in the order currently in force, the movement of pigs to cattle fairs, supplies and buying places, and the placing of pigs on the market at cattle fairs, in-houses and in-houses until 8 April 2007. Uncontrollable placing of pigs and pig meat on the market directly from the yard and prohibited... Keeping pigs as well as any other measures previously in place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These measures are intended to practically because in the analysis of the spread of swine fever we came to the conclusion that the traffic of pigs was mainly through fairs, either that conditioned that we had this spread to seven counties. The number of euthanized pigs infected with the virus shows that this is not a large number of pigs, and therefore we had to apply this type of traffic ban and ban on trade at fairs. It is limited in character and should serve precisely to pass this period of incubation and it is possible that a certain number of animals will still occur during that period of incubation. I want to do it again. This isn't something that's alarming. It is serious. I will say for comparison only and for our citizens to gain knowledge of the breadth and I would say to the disease itself that currently in Serbia, a country that has a vaccination against swine fever currently has 250 hotspots where swine fever is identified and where measures are being carried out. Let's compose that with the data that I've brought here, and then we can get one impression of the real one, I'd say danger. We are still standing at the point of view that vaccination against this disease is a matter of the past and it is not professionally justified, and that we need to improve our situation in swine fever, that we need to strengthen security measures around objects and traffic. And what I would especially like to refute once more is that it's a measure in place to qualify or what I know about import lobbys. The best denial of such stories is the increase in production that Croatia notes year after year, mainly in other segments and in pig farming. In 2006 the increase was 36% and for the first two months of 2007 compared to 2006 was 25%.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85449	Representative Stjepan Fiolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85450	Mr. Minister, I thank you for your answer on behalf of the pigmeat producer. And I also thank you for increasing production unlike the last ministry that only increased meat imports, and we can even say a little... I'm sorry there's no Mr. Kolar here today amongst us to hear that, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85451	And it would be good to thank you on behalf of the pigmeat user, especially the younger one. Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85452	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, it's not my fault I'm the last one. I didn't want you to sit here like this for a long time, but here's the ones who were scratching put me last. But that's why I'm gonna cut the question short. So, here's a two-year-old that the Board of Directors of the HVP Fund decided to sell "Free Dalmatia" and a year and a half that Mr Pavić, with a big pomp in Villa "Dalmacija", took over. You remember before that, you were with him in Split, that's what you remember. You weren't at this party. And also Mr. Pavic recently on the show "Censura" says he spent 133 million kunas, and you know about these elements of a contract that I don't know about other than what I heard from your mouths. Well, no one in Split knows what that 133 million kuna was spent on, not even anyone in Free knows. He also made a promise to spend up to 67 more by the end of the year. And you don't know what it's going to be spent on. Since you made a promise to the Croatian public somewhere in the fifth month of 2005 on HTV that you would present to the Croatian public a contract to sell "Free Dalmatia" to the Croatian public with that and before parliamentary representatives, before the Parliament. And here, it's been almost two years since anyone saw that contract. I would ask you when you will present this contract to the Croatian public? When are you going to present a realisation report under that contract? And when are we gonna know what's going on with Free Dalmatia? Here, I'd like you to answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85453	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85454	Mr. Representative, I'm glad you're among those who ask the question today even though you're the last but that doesn't mean it's the least important. The last one can be the first. And I will always patiently and carefully wait for all MPs was the first one to be the last because I am interested in your questions. Like this. As for the privatisation of "Free Dalmatia" you were among those, among many who spoke and during the past government, I remember your statements: "What are you waiting for with the privatisation of "Free Dalmatia"? Let's privatise it that the government, that the state does not have, has no influence in the media and should not have." And we privatized "Free Dalmatia". Contracts like you did in the last government that way and in this one, you can get an insight if both sides agree. And at the time of the former government and at the time of this, the same rules for everything. No exceptions. No, it doesn't, it doesn't, if there is, and as far as I'm concerned, you can see the Fund and the Governing Council of the Fund right away. But let's, of course, tell the investor and ask him a question where to put it? Because the government sold their share. Therefore, we do not have or wish to have control over future investments. Those items of the contract that we insisted on, which are of a social character to preserve jobs, are absolutely respected and I think the number of jobs will increase according to the information that we have. But for business policy and investment, where, what, how? That's what the authorities do. I don't think there's a reason. I think the privatisation of "Free Dalmatia", that's what I'm going to say now as well as you because we're from the same city that she was good. If you were trying, remember the 1990s, privatize it in an absolutely unacceptable way and that it was one bad phase in Croatia at all and that we, I would ask you to support it and publicly praise the government's move, that we are workers and employees of "Free Dalmatia" and journalists and journalists and all the employees who have achieved it because they suffered in the 1990s in that poor privatisation of 25% of shares. No one's done it before us. And that's why I think it's a good, good privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85455	Representative Jaksa Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85456	Oh, Mr. Prime Minister. You said you'd publish that contract to the public, yes, present it to the public. ... So, give it, picture it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I ask you to answer me in writing and give me that photocopy of that contract. Secondly, you're saying that we wanted the state to have no influence. Well, there's no state influence. You do. Even now you've become an associate. He will become an associate of Free Dalmatia and you will answer three questions a week like Žuži Jelinek in some Croatian magazines. That's about how you'll respond. That's one thing. On the other hand, you're saying I don't have relations with Mr. Pavic. You're taking Mr. Pavic and Mr. Huljić to America with a state plane to the state's expense. Take Mr. Dance to Slovakia, take him to France. I have nothing to do with them. I haven't spoken to them... And when they don't come to the thorns, even you don't come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I ask you once again, I ask you, given this influence of yours, to really present to people, employees and readers who read, because this "Free Dalmatia" is still sold in 50,000 copies. ... So what happens to "Free Dalmatia" to the public? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'd like a written answer. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85457	That's it. Ladies and gentlemen "The current morning" is over. A few notes just, please a moment. We'll start the session at 15 and 30, 15 and 30, but with point 2. The proposal for a law on museums and then further because for this 1st point of the proposal for a law on an information security system in an interstate meeting is the minister of justice. The secretary of state is out of the country. So we'll leave that information security bill for the next day. And at 15:30 is the proposal for a law on museums of Ivan Meštrovic, and then from HSP, the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse and so on. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15:30. We're going to continue the session. 2. Proposal for a Law on Museums of Ivan Meštrovic, first reading, P.Z. No. 629 The Proposer of the Law is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Education, Science and Culture. Proposer representative, State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture Jadran Antolovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85511	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. National Republic of Croatia in '52. With a gift contract concluded with academic sculptor Ivan Meštrovic, she received a gift from then family house and studio in Zagreb, a family villa with studios in Split, a sacral-art complex of Kaštelet-Cricvine in Split, a tomb of the Meštrović family near Otavica, 132 of her works, setting up an academic sculpture of their collections in which they should be kept with other sculptures, reliefs, drawings of graphics and architectural designs. And that donation was kept in the above collections in order to '91. The Law on the Foundation "Ivan Meštrović" was passed in the year, which in that way, in accordance with the known regulations, regulated the way in which the property and art were kept. But since '91. There was today the adoption of the Law on Institutions, so in '93. the year, the Museums Act of '98, the Law on the Management of Public Institutions in Culture 2001. Next, it is necessary to nominate this law in order to comply with those laws. But it seems even more important to me to stress that this law has for the first time consistently implemented the obligations made by the Republic of Croatia under the gift agreement. Namely, let me sort of quote the part of the gift contract in which Ivan Meštrović obliged the Republic of Croatia to place works of art in Zagreb and Split in museums that would make up independent separate parts of the donor's works. So, from the very gift agreement, it was a clear definition that it was necessary to establish museums as separate collections, as we propose. This is also the reason why and the answer that we can give to the questions that have arisen on the parliamentary committee, and as to why museums are like plural and why change and the name and content of the law is now taking place. So from the foundation, it's transformed into museums. I would also point out that after the adoption of the Law on Foundations in '91. The Law on Foundations and Foundations was passed and the foundation itself was given a different meaning. Adaptation to the law, in particular the Museum Act, is extremely important for content reasons. Namely, the management of the museum and the participation of professional staff in the management of museums will be exactly the same as any other museum in Croatia. Another important component of this is that the museums of Ivan Meštrovic will fit into the system of Croatian museums. In the bill of law, we also propose a change on the issue of the seat. Namely, the foundation had its headquarters in Zagreb. And here we propose that museums have headquarters in Split, so the legal person has a seat in Split. We keep it justified when we find that 313 art is located in Zagreb in Mletska 8. In the "Ivan Meštrovic" gallery in Split, it is far richer and contains 190 sculptures and reliefs, 530 drawings, 297 architectural plans, so a thousand 70 works and other works by Ivan Meštrović. And there are certainly two other sites, Kaštelet and the proximity of Meštrovic's mausoleum. These are the reasons that led us to propose a change of seat to a legal person. We must also point out that the management method proposed in the Law on Museums of Ivan Meštrovic is fully in line with the Law on Institutions. Next, the authorities of the day are also competent. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85512	Thank you. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture. On behalf of the Committee, the Honorable Representative, Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85513	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I express on the proposal of the Law on Museums of Ivan Meštrovic. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The debate itself supported the proposal's intention to achieve the nominal situation with real standards and actions of the institution of Ivan Meštrovic's foundation. So that the Law is established, the institution, the Ivan Meštrovic museums based in Split with activities in Split, Zagreb and Otavica. The adoption of the Law on Museums of Ivan Meštrovic established an institution in line with the Law on Institutions, the Law on Museums and the Law on the Management of Institutions in Culture, which were all adopted after an institution was established in 1991 called "Fundations of Ivan Meštrović". Since the Foundations and Foundations Act 1995 was also passed in the meantime, that is another reason why the foundation provision should be deleted from the name of an institution that is not. The proposer was given the reasons why the new... Perhaps it should be appointed in a single, i.e. The museum "Ivan Meštrovic" since it really is one legal person that may not be sufficiently taken into account in the formulation of paragraphs 4 of Article 3. It is also suggested for the already stated reasons of disagreement between the nominal and the real situation that this bill wants to correct the proposer's representative to consider the supplement in Article 17, paragraph 1, which would in this case begin: "The entry into force of this law of the foundation of the Ivan Meštrovic Foundation established by the Law on the foundation of Ivan Meštrovic continues to work as the Museum of Ivan Meštrović". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the purposes of paragraph 3 of Article 3, an organisation unit of an institution would be designated within the meaning of paragraph 1 of Article 9. The law on institutions as branches, institutions, centres or in another appropriate way. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the following conclusion. The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept the adoption of the Law on Museums of Ivan Meštrovic. All proposals, opinions on the draft law, will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85514	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. PGS club, SBH and IMF respected representative Ivo Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85515	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a legal proposal that I hold so that it should not be adopted in this form. In fact, it is poorly conceived, in parts illogical and I am often afraid, contrary to the gift of Ivan Meštrovic, of our largest modern sculptor whose legacy in four decades since his death has been poorly guarded and often abused and that the recipient of the then Government of the National Republic of Croatia and its followers has not yet fulfilled the key points of the gift. Therefore, this legislative proposal cannot be accessed without application or at least taking into account all points of the original gift and without agreement or at least consultation with the successors of Ivan Meštrovic to members of the Meštrović family. When this legislative proposal is read, it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that the authors are either not familiar with the gift or consciously want to bypass part of its specifics. In his letter to Dr Vladimir Bakarić since 7 December 1951, Ivan Meštrovic stressed and quote: "My house on Mletko Street No. 8 in Zagreb consisting of living rooms, atriums, studios and courtyards I give to the national government of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of the temporary museum of my things.", a temporary museum. "If the people's government could find a more suitable place for the definitive accommodation of that museum then it could have the said real estate at its disposal but with the fact that it can't do so until such a new independent museum is arranged and things are in place in it." It's the end of the quote. Also, in the gift agreement of 31 January 1952, which, apart from Meštrovic, signed on behalf of the Government of the National Republic of Croatia, Dr Milos Žanko, the President of the Educational, Science and Culture Council of Croatia, clearly states that, I quote, "the daroprimac undertakes: a) that the works mentioned in the accompanying list will be placed in Zagreb and Split in museums which will make up an independent separate part of the donor's works and as indicated in the attached regulations of these works". Despite these clear provisions, the legislative proposal that is before us claims that Meštrovic has detailed the "62 pieces" I suppose is the works of art "placed in today's studio Meštrović in Zagreb". At the end of the first point that speaks about the assessment of the situation in the text of the legislative proposal, I quote: "One of the conditions set by Ivan Meštrovic in the Darov Treaty is that the gifts must represent separate and indivisible parts of the donor's works.". If we ignore nonsensions that work can be separate and indivisible to the whole of the work itself, this is simply not true. In the gift shop, the government undertakes to place donated works, quote "in museums that will make up an independent separate set of donor works". Meštrović listed three museums, two in Split and one in Zagreb as well as a church in Ottavnica, which was said on the occasion of Meštrovic's intention that the authorities then accepted were pictured as a sacral space in a limited function under the supervision of the local parishioner and not a museum of the Drjna krajina. Meštrovic, in a letter to Dr Bakarić, stressed the obligation to, again, quote, "the national government will not, under any aspect, allow plastic copying of the donated parts" and the gift note is explicitly mentioned that, I quote, "the daroprimac will take care of the professional accommodation and storage of those parts and will under no circumstances allow their plastic copying and undertakes not to alienate them under any conditions or to permanently export them from the mentioned museums". Nevertheless, it is known that this is exactly what happened. Namely, a large number of Meštrović's works that are listed in the meštrović studio's foundation or in the "Ivan Meštrović" Gallery in Split are illegally opposed to Meštrovic's decision or without the consent of all copyright holders, so his linear heirs. This fact is not minor. Namely, the legal proposal that is before us also states this "The Law on the foundation of Ivan Meštrovic", which means the 1991 law "contains the obligation of entrepreneurs to protect property and other interests of its heirs as copyright holders regardless of where such works are located". And now comes the key difference that exists in this bill. The gift agreement does not foresee or contain any obligation to heirs. It is issues in the area of copyright which are private rights and there is no reason and no justification for the public institution in culture to care for these private rights. These provisions are therefore left out of the new law, i.e. the legislative proposal. It is precisely because it is about copyrights which are injured by the casting of donated art contrary to the provisions of the gift, the legislative proposal cannot prohibit heirs from caring for the fulfillment of Meštrovic's provisions of the gift agreement and that their opinion is equal to any other when it comes to the work of their father, or ancestors. If such a thing was socially relevant in 1952, it cannot be relevant in a post-communist society. I will give only one absurd example of how to approach Croatia's obligations stemming from copyright issues. One of our well-known companies, very well-known who manufactures very high-quality ties, recently produced a tie with the motive of Meštrović's Chicago Indians. These sculptures ordered by the city of Chicago are a rare example of Meštrovic's direct transfer of copyright to the client. So in this case, the copyright of the city of Chicago has been violated. It doesn't matter that so far there have been no legal consequences. However, it is symptomatic that the issue of authorship is easily approached. The plagiarist virus that has just been spotted in our academic community obviously has its much wider social reception. Let me get this straight. I would ask the ministry to clear up the proposal, dominoes of various inconsistencies in the text and reach an agreement or at least a conversation with the Meštrovic family. I think in this way we will only begin to repay one of our world-renowned giants who loved Croatia truly passionately. This is particularly true of Meštrovic's works from his final emigration phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85516	Thank you. The HNS club, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85517	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My debate today will relate mainly to four things in the structure of this law, one is in line with the legislation, one is the relationship with the heirs, one is the change in the name of the law, and the fourth point is to move the seat. In fact, although this is a law that is made in the best faith and, for example, on a good track, it is still quite casual and, of course, I hope that by the second reading, it will experience significant changes so that we will have the opportunity to finally get one quality law. Meštrovic is one of the few true artists of the 20th century, although his personality as well as his work was evaluated through a political, religious, ideological prism, Meštrovic always wanted his value and achievements to be assessed precisely through the criteria of his work of art. In this light, it can also be explained that the largest Croatian sculptor of the 20th century donated to his homeland the largest art collection of the last century. The gift agreement was signed in 52nd, and in 91st year the foundation law of Ivan Meštrovic established the foundation based in Zagreb in Mletekska 8, i.e. in the house, the studio of Ivan Meštrovic, in which he spent as many as 20 years. The foundation's basic task was to protect and preserve gift facilities and works with the professional processing of the funds and their appropriate representation to the public. From 91st to today, the law has not been amended, although some other laws have changed, which are now in collegiate, the Law on the foundation of Ivan Meštrovic. First of all, as already suggested, these are the Law on Institutes of 93, the Law on Museums of 98, and finally the Law on the Management of Public Institutions in Culture in 2001. On the other hand, although the name of Ivan Meštrovic's foundation was never able to operate as a foundation. Namely the 95th Foundation and Foundations Act, the foundation is defined as an asset intended to serve during a certain period of time to achieve some common useful or charitable purpose while the works of Ivan Meštrovic are permanently donated to the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of preserving, protecting, processing and public presentation. On the contrary to the proposal of this law, Meštrovic, by the gift agreement of Article 2, expressed the desire for all museums to remain independent and separate. So what key news does this bill bring? First compliance with the legislation. First of all, the provisions of this law should be fully in line with the Law on Institutes and the Law on Museums in matters of body and management of the institution as well as on matters of activity and professional work of the institutions. The Ivan Meštrovic Museum is run by the administrative council as well as all other museums. The Administrative Council shall consist of five members. Although no experts have participated in the management of this facility so far, the government has decided to make this proposal a... twist and allow the management of the largest art collection in this area to be attended by even two professional associates. The other three, one of whom is the chairman of the board of directors, are of course appointed by the Government. Can we talk about some kind of surveillance here? 3 million and 600 thousand kuna for such an institution may not be much if these money is properly used, but is there somewhere detailed financial reports that would show how much money goes to Zagreb, how much in Split, etc. What's the point of spending that money on? The issue of illegal castings of Meštrovic's statues as well as illegally acquired works must also be asked. Meštrović specifically banned the duplication and multiplication of his works in the gift contract, which is also Article 2a. regulated. However, just a large number of statues from the foundation's foundations were created in this way, and contrary to the wishes of a great sculptor, with the permission of one of the four heirs who is legally invalid or still no permit. It is specifically 88 works that are without any written evidence of ownership or method of acquisition included in the meštrović studio in Zagreb as well as with family archives in the Split gallery Ivan Meštrović. In this context, it must be asked whether this bill is actually an attempt to legalise all the lawlessnesss that have been committed so far in Ivan Meštrovic's foundation. As for the relationship with the heirs, this law also derivates the relationship with the heirs. The law abandoned provisions governing obligations to the successors of Ivan Meštrovic from the title of protection of their copyrights. It is very interesting that the heirs are kicked out of the law after 16 years, especially since we have recently witnessed various media bickerings between the heirs themselves, and what is between the heirs and the director of the foundation. The dispute between the heirs was not possible under the Law on the foundation of Ivan Meštrovic, nor by the contract of the HAZU, and at the same time more JAZU, because the Law on Inheritance regulates the right of succession. It is a legal non-sension to be appointed as a representative of an heir or a legal heir and this is unknown to the basis of Croatian and European law. The representative shall be elected, and the heir or representative of the heir may neither appoint the HAZU nor the JAZU. Although it's the '91 law. gave families and too much authority to this proposal for a law completely deprives any authority. It should not be forgotten that the family is nevertheless the holder of copyright for the remaining 30 years, which stems from the Law on... Rights because Meštrovic made it clear that he leaves all works to Croatia, since he does not mention copyrights to them are rightful heirs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Co-operation with heirs is necessary and inevitable, so not radically, as so far, that heirs have the right to veto institution decisions such as in the selection of the Director, but it would still be logical at least and correct that one of the families is at least a member of the Governing Council. As for the change in the name of the law, the second novelty is that the foundation for the above reasons is changing into museums, but although on a good track this bill is not to the end of the conconsequential. What's wrong with renaming until the end? ... A memorial sacral object, no fondus, no... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I can hardly sneak into a museum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also outside of the foundation in the Republic of Croatia there is and acts the Ivan Meštrovic Museum in the native Vrpolje, which is not covered by the Law on Museums of Ivan Meštrovic, so it could be said earlier that it is the Law on certain museums of Ivan Meštrovic which you will agree on. Moving the seat and the latest news of this proposal is moving the headquarters of the institution from Zagreb to Split. The argument is that there is much more art in Split than in Zagreb, more precisely a thousand 70 arts. The bill's proposal and more detailed analysis suggests that it has 190 sculptures and reliefs, 538 drawings and graphics and 297 architectural drawings. A total of 25 artists, not a thousand 70. Is it, then, that someone in government either didn't add up well, or for 45 art in Split doesn't know where they are? I'm sorry Mr. Secretary of State doesn't listen to me. The argument to move the administrative seat is not convincing because experts are not only concerned about the preservation and protection of the work of Ivan Meštrović, regardless of where it was located, but about the whole opus and protection of the name Ivan Meštrović. Zagreb is the capital of Croatia and it contains various other complementary institutions. Zagreb is the largest city with its state institutions and residential foreign representations, a city that visits the largest number of foreign dignitaries from which it logically stems that this city should just remain the seat of the presentation of excellence of this truly greatest artist of the 20th century. After all, '64. In the year, the late professor Begovic was awarded for the adaptation of space, studios in Mletska 8, and only a few years later, with part of the living space, Professor Dolfin surrounds the entire exhibition space so far. And instead of the ministry working on moving the administrative seat for unfounded reasons, with additional unnecessary costs, citizens would rather see an agreement with the City of Zagreb to buy the building in Mletjek 10 and thus round the area into a whole Meštrović complex. Nor should the failures that occurred in Split be forgotten. A private wedding took place in Meštrovic's castle in September 2005. I'm not getting into it whether it was private or not, that wedding was written in the local newspaper, writing about loud music, brought to light, a large amount of food and drink, and a number of guests who had fun leaving behind garbage. The head of the department in Split mentioned in his defence the position of the Management Board of Foundations on the possible use of the complex where his allegations differed significantly from that of the March 2005 Committee. According to the minutes of the session, the use of the Church of St. The cross that is part of the castle, but without the collection of rents and that the formulation of the purpose of the castle space for the maintenance of the wedding with a very strict contract should be laid down to allow the exclusive maintenance of wedding rituals without the possibility of bringing any food and beverages into the castle space. The provision broke, the peace of Meštrovic's walls was violated, and only the question was how many such rituals and private parties there were and how much money was earned on them. The foundation certainly didn't get any money, namely it's a nonprofit facility. And although I am for decentralisation in every respect, I am still not convinced in cultural terms of the logic of the transfer of headquarters to Split. The higher costs would certainly be borne by the administrative centre, and as far as Zagreb is concerned, there is a much higher budget. On the other hand, we can interpret this move in the context of the growing flow of money in Split, so the Highduk football club, although its accounts have been blocked for two, three years, buys and brings new perspective young and above all valuable players into its ranks. However, I am sure that, as well as moving the museum headquarters, it has nothing to do with the pre-election campaign. To conclude, the law excludes some important things such as the rights and obligations of the heirs, and the proposal does not mention in any word the government's obligation to provide more suitable accommodation for the Meštrovic Museum in Zagreb, and as provided for in Meštrović's gift list in Article 2.b. Due to such inadequate accommodation, a large number of donated works have been sent to other museums or is still the most tragic collecting dust in the basements of the foundation rather than being available to the public. However, as the promoter's awareness that this Law does not need to bring back the application, there is the possibility that a good idea may end with an acceptable proposal, but it is certainly a minimum that if you do not already listen to the public to listen to at least professional people from the foundation and what is minimal to contact your family. That's why we at the HNS Club will be held back about this proposal until the second reading when I hope we get a better proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85518	Thank you. Would you please honor the bell for that amendment, what was it called? The mailman doesn't ring twice. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85519	My colleague said there's a museum in Vrpolje, that would be very good. Unfortunately, there is only the mention of the galleries, and because of the unification of the entire Croatia and because of you Slavons, it would be good to have the gallery become part of the museum "Ivan Meštrovic".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85520	The memory gallery is in Vrpolje, where Ivan Meštrović was born. But that Vrpolje is Dalmatian, this is Slavonic Vrpolje. HDZ club, respected Jagoda representative Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85521	Thank you, Mr. President. I will express in my first sentence the position of the Croatian Democratic Community club which is contrary to what we have heard from colleagues from other clubs so far. So, we're going to all-out support this bill. And now I'm going to say why. And I'm building up in advance if something might sound like a correction to an incorrect quote or replica or any kind of polemic. It's not my intention. But it'll probably come from some settings. So, first of all, we will absolutely agree with this bill and its adoption, simply because we consider it to be the first, right on the trail of decentralisation, if the conditions were material, human beings and I don't know what kind of, then the seat of such museums could be in both Otavica and Vrpolje. So why shouldn't he be in Split now? We believe that this is normal, logical and consistent with all the political intensities of this country, decentralisation. No matter how many years it's been in Zagreb. There's no point or reason. Secondly, as regards the statement that this bill is contrary to the heir's gift. I don't know if I'm reading one gift contract, and my fellow predecessors, speakers, another gift contract. But what I have since 31 January 1952, where Dr. Žanko was signed as a donor of Ivan Meštrović, has absolutely no word of heirs. The heirs. [[/Intruder: About what?]] Sam Ivan Meštrović did not put in this any context of his successors, so I don't know why we are now talking so much about heirs who were expelled from that law before in '91, or were... Oh, I'm sorry, we're talking about the bill here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't watch who's sitting in the gallery, nor do I care this moment. I'm talking about the legal situation. This gift agreement does not mention an heir at any point. Not in the single, not in the plural. Please, we're talking about legal matters and we're trying to conduct some kind of legislation here. At least I don't think so. Furthermore, what we find very important and therefore we will support the bill's proposal, is that perhaps, to a greater extent, it will lead to the profession in one way or another, which has not been the case so far, since the previous law belonged to sublegal acts by some other standards. And what seems also very important to me to say and to relate to the note of the weddings in Kaštelet and the violation of the peace of Meštrovic's walls. That sounds a little pathetic and a little demagogue to me. Namely, if we know that weddings are held in Dubrovnik in order to promote tourism, I do not know why Kaštelet would be more valuable than Lovrenec. So let's either make one law that will end all possible similar opportunities in such places, or let's not make the difference between this and that. And finally, about the spills. There were a lot of words about it. I suppose the Ministry of Culture as a proposing of this bill has some kind of paper, which shows clearly who's been doing the drains all these years. I would not have raised that question by name and last name at the moment, but the fact is that the state certainly did not pour anything out of Meštrovic, but that some people who might have really needed to protect Ivan Meštrovic's height. Therefore, we have very much reason to support just like this proposal for a law on Ivan Meštrovic's museums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85522	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85523	It's not exactly an excuse not to mention heirs. For them he reserved a place in the tomb for all his children. And he was coming back then as an American sculptor and thought that they were... is assumed to be implicated in that contract, so it has nothing to do with each other at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85524	Replica, the esteemed representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85525	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, she would replicate in the work where she spoke about what was stated by the gift agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85526	Oh, I'm sorry. You see...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85527	Then the rectification of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85528	Yeah. There isn't. Unfortunately, there you go. You can see what kind of oversight happens to the perfect advocates. Then we can do it by correcting an incorrect allegation. Let's go get that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85529	I thank you, Mr. President, for that. I'd just correct Mrs. Representative when she's talking about the gift agreement. Here, I got it right here in front of me. In point 1, point 1 refers to only works of art in point A to point E. A point B, C, D and E speaks of real estate. You don't talk about copyright anywhere. Therefore, the right of the heir comes from the Law of Copyright, not from the Treaty of Donation, not from the gift agreement. Thus, the Law on Copyright gave heirs the right to inherit at age 75, of which 46 is approximately consummated. And secondly, in points 2, or II, under point B, it's specifically about the building and the possibility of expansion if there's going to be an opportunity. And in point 1, it is mentioned that they will be taken care of, settled, and that these museums are completely separated in their business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85530	HSLS Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85531	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I really, uh, I don't understand that everything that happens more or less in Croatian culture that must be composing and that actually at the border, this, scandal. And... Indeed, since the 1990s, we can actually read constantly that something with the legacy of our great sculptor Ante, Ivan Meštrovic, does not work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You could see, in fact, my colleague Makovic was at "Feral" at any moment and not only his colleague Maković, but also his colleague Kečemet, who was the author of one of the most important monographs about Ivan Meštrovic, in fact, warned that some strange things were actually happening. We are, Antun Barac wrote about the size of small ones, and regardless of this relatively modest culture, we still have some names where the work belongs, but we really treat it as though it's almost in itself premises that here we have a great sculptor and then we'll actually work with him whatever comes to mind. And that's the same thing with this bill on these museums over and over again, the thing is actually repeating. We ignore, ignore, or ignore, parts of the heirs. We have the heirs to say those who are like this, who were relatively nice to the regime like Mrs. Marica Meštrovic and we have others like our former colleague in the County House, Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia, one of the most famous political immigrants, dissidents Mate Meštrović. In fact, he's already being heard, we have a letter that probably all of us here have received, he's actually completely ignoring and really the state gives itself actually that in such very delicate details he determines what she thinks is best. In fact, to ignore that and the will. It's not the first time in our politics, wills, political wills, wills by Ante Starčević, and further very easily, it's very easy to ignore and it's assumed that we actually know better what they meant than when they wrote what they thought. And now it's happening again, and I don't see any reason why we're bringing things like this in some way that might actually be the one, now we like to say this brand, the cultural brand of Croatia, and that's certainly the opus, the opus of this great sculptor that you really are reading English literature about, let's say Lawrence is mentioned in some, that the statues of Ivan Meštrović are being debated in the halls. I must admit that I would like to read someone, for another writer, the sculptor says that his works in some English saloons, where this aristocracy of the spirit is created is seriously mentioned... You can do this when you read, when you read this famous writer you can see there that people in the 20th century were referred to the opus Ivan Meštrovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is how it works for us to see, I think that this is how my colleague Banac made it start with Vladimir Bakarić, and we should end up... with another Vladimir Shakespeare, that is actually given as a yes, that time in these places stands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope that this other Vladimir, I mean, yes, to Mr. Seks that he will not actually allow it and that in this House he will establish some rules of the game to be a little more delicate to those who belong to that history of those, our size where we should certainly put Ivan Meštrovic's opus. Also, I also say immediately that some things are mentioned by this gallery that I see twice a week on the road from Osijek to Zagreb. Inside that gallery is even unfortunately also a pharmacy and all of this works a little bit on one side you have something that is associated with one truly coincidence that Ivan Meštrović was born in Slavonia. Well, it really belongs to that circle of great Slavs, and here's the situation. And then actually just three meters away from the gallery entrance you have one pharmacy, so I'm afraid that, and who knows what else you have there when you're still chasing 100 kilometers an hour, so you can't see everything very carefully every time. But you see that this actually mention gallery works quite polyvalently. I'm saying I'm not here to be us, to be some hermeneutic gift-reading kind of thing, so let's see what it actually has? So what Letica's colleague said is that when someone comes from another world like Meštrovic, in the '50s, just came from a completely different world with different rules of play, that copyright itself predominant and that he didn't really have to mention his successors specifically. And that actually the gift talks about one aspect and that in some other things it's said somewhere else. And here I am now saying the government would like this kind of relatively elegant way to make this, that this bitterness that's been going on for 15 years to try to solve. But I think you should be there a little more delicate still with one, the more they are, and that they are not heirs alive and that, and that, uh, and that if they're not interested in all of this, we should still be leading, we should have that, given that it really is, here we have to make a decision that will sort of define the future, the future of the Ivan Meštrovic museum. I will not warn of all the illogicalities that the predecessors have set before me, they have spoken them and the HSLS Club cannot give this first reading to a green light with one such proposal, a bill of this law, and indeed that is why it would be good to... The next reading that it is the government that determines what it is to us, what we are to him and how we are, in fact, with what we really belong, belongs to this very indisputable size in some way, if nothing else is exactly the relax of that man and of the Croats can be heard. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is no accident that in many places in the world there are his sculptures and in some way that we can actually put some associations Meštrović = Croatia, and the fact that in the 1950s he comes here, no matter why he gives legitimacy to the then government, but he does it very knowingly and knows why he does it. So let us remember all of those controversys by his, the memories that were revealed, which was really just the necessary literature in our and political maturation to learn something more from within, the history of the relations that were, and in some ways they determined and showed all the complexity of Croatian identity and political throughout the 20th century where Ivan Meštrović was also a significant participant. And all that, and all these ideological and controversial and layering and complexity should be appreciated. Well, then that's exactly why I don't have to say hurry, and I don't need to go over it. And it doesn't really need to cause another eco soap opera that's going to happen in some, which is going to come after this proposal anyway. Where will experts who will be quite or rightly... The solutions if we make the wrong one, the wrong one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's one more time HSLS can't support this with the best of will. Although we must admit or like to hear the word decentralisation and this does not know the placeing of the seat in Split sounds nice and I think and it is defensive, it makes sense. But I'm saying we need to be much more thoughtful and delicate in this situation. For at the end of the decisions we make will speak more about us, and then and in what way we will not diminish even the size of that man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85532	Thank you very much. Otherwise, colleague Kramarić, please stick to the speed limit of 50 km/h. In close proximity to the memory gallery Meštrović Vrpolje is a limited speed to 50 and you should not endanger what Comrade Vlado Bakarić said because the situation is political good and economic bad, is it. And yes. HSP club, respected representative Miroslav Rožic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85533	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Although it always takes a few times and a single dose of a little humor in the Croatian Parliament, this is one topic that should not only cause funny leaps but also some serious comments. First of all, the fact that the gift agreement does not mention heirs is indeed one argument I did not understand. Instead of correcting an incorrect quote or replica, I'm going to start an exhibition about, on behalf of the HSP club, just this once strange accent and accent. Why weird? Namely, if a gift contract is broken and does not respect who should be concerned or who should point to that fact if not heirs? Who should call on the Ministry of Culture and the state bodies to actually implement this gift agreement not to do so correctly? Of course, heirs. They mentioned each other or they didn't mention each other. It's another thing. The gift contract contains the exact list of works that were the subject of the donation. The exact list of items with the description. And the museum or the foundation so far or whatever it is you want to know owns 88 works that are not on that list and are not actually the subject of a gift contract, but who knows how they became owned by the state of Croatia. And they're not really that. They're namely the property of an heir. Of course, the heirs are concerned about it and are concerned about it. And even if you want, I don't see what logic does the Ministry of Culture have to ignore the wishes and rights of the heir of the sculptor Ivan Meštrovic, and with the present fact that 2/3 of the works in that museum actually belong to them. Because the Ivan Meštrovic Museum does not contain works just from a gift contract, but I repeat 88 works of art that are not the subject of a gift contract. So I really don't understand why and how Mr. Ivan Meštrovic's son, our great artist Mate Meštrovic, who, among other things, is our former fellow parliamentary representative, can't actually get any excess response for 2 years or can't secure a meeting with the culture minister for two years to discuss these topics. Or at least to get some kind of excessive response about your property as your father's heir. Well, if anything, at least I'd say some amount of respect for my former fellow parliamentary representative should force the minister to accept him if not already the fact that he's the son of his famous father. So, in this proposal on the Law on Museums of Ivan Meštrovic, which, according to our court at the HSP club, is one attempt to legalise all the lawlessnesss that have so far been committed through the Ivan Meštrovic Foundation, even before its draft in that state, but unfortunately also in this Croatian state. No one from the government or the ministry informed the heirs, but they accidentally found out about him and actually found that the '91 absurd was repeated. the years when, beyond all laws, even the wish of the sculptor himself was created by the Ivan Meštrovic Foundation. The changes envisaged through this law are only cosmetic changes. Only the form changes but the content doesn't change. And yet the terms of the '52 gift agreement are not met. And it is now said not by heirs not mentioned in the gift contract but by not being met by this bill, so that the terms of the '52 gift contract are not met. This is what the HSP club now says here, not predicating to be the successor of Ivan Meštrovic but to warn of the fact that the terms of the '52 gift contract are not met. A year. We believe that such a procedure of government is incorrect. And the proposal itself is clearly full of mistakes and illogicality. In fact, even the names of these future museums in this bill are not in line with the proposal itself. We do not understand whether this is the Meštrović Gallery or the Ivan Meštrovic Gallery. It is not clear whether it is from this proposal, whether it is Churches or Meštrovicev Kaštelet, because they are both mentioned. It is not clear whether it is the Church of the Holy Redeemer or the Church of the Holy Redeemer or perhaps the Mausoleum family Meštrović. It is not clear whether the studio is just an studio or a protected monument of culture from the end of the 17th century, the Meštrović family house with an upgraded studio or something else. Is the Meštrović Gallery just a gallery or is it more than that? Is the family summer palace of Meštrović's summer house, etc. etc. If the law is already changing, then why not get rid of these dilemmas, why not ask the profession and the public about the need to change the name of these museums but everything is done in this way I would say under the cover of some compliance with the laws in the meantime. The proposal is therefore once again, in our court an attempt to legalise all lawlessnesss that have been committed so far in connection with the legacy of Ivan Meštrovic, Meštrovic's statues and illegal acquired works should be hidden from the public, a large number of art, furniture, documents and everything else that has disappeared from Ivan Meštrovic's legacy. The gift agreement states that each work must be located where the sculptor has determined. It's obvious that's not the case. That there are such works in different places and even that some of the most valuable works are not at all found in these museums but in some entirely other institutions. Meštrović specifically banned the duplication and multiplication of his works in the gift contract, which is Article 2a. A large number of statues from the foundation's foundation, however, came this way, so against the wishes of the great sculptor and without any permission from his successors, and with this bill, he is trying to legalise the fact. 88 works that, without any written evidence because they are not the subject of a gift contract, are owned by the Meštrović studio in Zagreb, so the Croatian state as it was done with a family archive at the Split gallery Ivan Meštrovic, have also become without any written proof of ownership. The new law has not mentioned for 55 years the unfulfilled obligation of the government of the Republic of Croatia to provide more suitable accommodation for Meštrovic's museum. So it was certainly envisaged in the gift shop that some of their colleagues had already spoken. Ivan Meštrovic never asked for a merger under one general hat of his museums and that is very clear from Article 2a. On the contrary, in the gift agreement, he says he wants independent and separate museums. So the museum in Zagreb and the museum in Split, not one museum based here or there, is clearly stated in his gift contract. The sentence in this proposal that speaks of it, and it says: "donated works must represent separate and indivisible units", I really don't want to comment, that's the type's argument, and just because it's raining we claim that the roads are dry. Namely, the sentence is not only a language nonsension but it is not referenced at all to a gift contract, because the gift agreement does not speak of indivisibility of works but rather of indivisibility of these collections between two museums that must not be like one indivisible whole. I'd just like to mention one example here if you could actually see what I'm talking about. This Croatian Parliament declared the year Nikola Tesla, and last year, a public debate was held about setting up a statue made by Ivan Meštrovic in the hometown of Nikola Tesla, Smiljana. If the last 15 years the Ministry of Culture had ever thought of Tesla, it could have been long ago in Smiljan to place the bronze bust of the portrait of Nikola Tesla, which the heirs of 1999 gave to the Republic of Croatia and the City of Zagreb, which is now in the foundation of this foundation, Ivan Meštrovic, and this very bust is what Meštrovic himself suggested to be placed in Smiljan, I quote his statement: "If the people of his Smiljan wanted to have something in his native village, then let them pour out a copy of the one I gave." Therefore, it was also the wish of the statue of Ivan Meštrovic and the artist himself, but not only his wish but also Nikola Tesla, who in 39 years I asked Meštrovic to make him this bust and insisted on it because of his modesty that he should never be set up a statue in Smiljan, but just that bust. So much for our respect for the wishes of these giants we have spoken of here in the Croatian Parliament, proclaiming the year of Nikola Tesla and today talking about the great sculptor Ivan Meštrović. As much as we respect their wishes, you can see it from this bill, I'd say almost nothing. And therefore, of course, the HSP club will not support this proposal because we still respect the wishes of Ivan Meštrovic and Nikola Tesla and many other Croatian giants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85534	Thank you. State Secretary Jadran Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85535	Thanks to the debate so far, let me just point out some of the things that appeared in the debate, which refer to the way the foundation Ivan Meštrović worked. I would like to remind you that it is in this law that it is said that the Foundation is managed by the Management Board, and that according to the principle of the law, Marija Meštrović is a member of the Management Board, and that, in the name of her heirs, she also had the power of all heirs to her actions. It is mentioned here that she had some kind of veto in the work of the board of directors, that the board of directors would act, and hence the foundation. That is exactly what prevented the museum’s profession from being handled and kept. Following this, there were appropriate casts of sculptures, according to the orders signed by the heirs. It is not simply fair to bring into the context the proposal for a new law with those activities and facts that took place under the Law on Foundation Ivan Meštrović and now to impute that these problems should be resolved in a different way. The copyright law clearly defines the rights which the author has, which his successors have, and should be applied independently of the way in which the institution is managed and which is primarily used to preserve the donation received by the Republic of Croatia. I would like to stress here that there are two types of art when it comes to ownership, which are in today's foundation, and the future museum. These are the art that is owned by the Republic of Croatia and those which are still owned by heirs and are located there on storage. As a result, those who are on the storage place are bound by the provisions of the treaty, and with them, they are determined by the heirs themselves, whether they will be copied or managed by them. I would like to inform you that it was mentioned here that the culture minister did not receive the successor Matu Meštrovic. That's not true. That's what was waiting for the reception. I was personally present at this conversation and these talks were on several occasions precisely because the Law on the Meštrovic Foundation was requested to change and to settle the issue of keeping the collection both those owned by the Republic of Croatia and those on the storage. At this point, there is also a demand for the heirs to withdraw their stored art from custody and it is precisely in the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85536	Thank you. The HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85537	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In the club HSS, we hold that the primary interest is not only in this bill but in all of us, and certainly in the Croatian public to discuss the famous Croatian Cypriot most famously in an appropriate way. I think that the debate on Ivan Meštrovic should be deprived of all those connotations that can cause a controversy that can be extended or that can, for a reason or for no reason, cast a negative shadow into the work of the largest Croatian sculptor. And I think that's the primary objective of every debate, of course, of this bill. Of course, it should come from the fact that the wishes of the legacy and the intentions of Ivan Meštrovic cannot and must not be debated. She just has to respect herself. Although it's been law since '91. and the foundation of the foundation made a mistake in the essential assumptions on which it was intended to valorise the will and work of Ivan Meštrovic, if in any way it was wrong and it was wrong, and the proof of this is precisely the proposal of the law, then this is an opportunity to fully correct what is wrong. I am not, of course, the most invited, but I also need to be, in a professional and metric way, to talk about technical, artistic, legal and in particular, but it is clear to all of us that this is not only an opportunity, but also an imperative that we fully valorise Ivan Meštrovic's desire and intention in this new law. The fact that the largest Croatian sculptor has all his property, the whole artistic opus gave to the Croatian people tells about the strength of not only this artistic opus, but also the character. Leaving something to your people might still be the most sublime thing that can be set up. Is it by such an act that family and those who naturally inherit him are brought into a worse position? No, I don't. It's just an expression of one great will and love for his people in which no one is bypassed, not even his family. I think that's how it's supposed to be interpreted. Therefore, on behalf of the HSS Club, I join everyone who interprets it and believes that an absolute family and heirs should be involved in bodies that will take care of the way the Law on Desires, Intents and Legacy of Ivan Meštrović is implemented. Is it '91? By establishing a foundation and setting up a headquarters in Zagreb in some way, there has been a local gap? Of course, and I disagree with those who read what they read because it is very clear to us at the HSS club that Ivan Meštrovic has designated Split as the centre of his artistic legacy and we believe that it is true and that it is appropriate and we have no objections to it. Of course, we also hold that the other wishes and wills of Ivan Meštrovic are fully or in full, without changing their meanings must be respected. I am not convinced, however, that 5 studio exhibitions in 10 years, and if that is the balance of the work of studios and galleries Meštrović in Zagreb and Split, it can be called promoting the work of the largest Croatian sculptor. I'm not at all convinced that's the case. And if that's not the case, then surely it's time for something to change. This change simply cannot have, go or have a compromise action. That change has to be complete, because there's no reason here to be different. There is no reason here and the fact is, gentlemen, that Meštrovic is on the way to oblivion. That Meštrovic is on the way to forget generations. That it's almost impossible to get to him. That there's nothing you can hear about him. Therefore, we hold that the bill found here in the first reading is on the trail with additions and repairs. In addition to the additions and repairs that must be installed in the final proposal, it has the possibility to achieve not our goals, not HSS assumptions, not anything we want, but only to properly valorise what Croatia's greatest sculptor has left for all of us together. We don't advocate any of our resolutions. We don't advocate any approach that will have one or that character. But we fully advocate to apply what is written to the greatest extent possible. What's '52. years written. I guess it can be read today, I guess today's context of time hasn't threatened the understanding of what's being said, and I guess today we'll be able to understand what's being said in '52. The year agreed. No more, no less. And any debate in which it tries in any way to question anything other than the basic task that what the artist left behind, that he left it to the Croatian people, that it would best be put into the function of what he wanted to be. And he certainly didn't want it to be closed, to be unrecognizable, to be selective or to be treated in the way that Meštrovic didn't want it. Therefore, we do not want to be wise here at all. We don't want to give any lessons to those who at least hold on to their own reasons, to have the right to speak in a different way about this. We believe that this is an opportunity for this bill to fully adapt to the needs of Croatian society, the Croatian people today. From the fact that he had the greatest sculptor in the ranks of his people. And we think that's the greatest value. Of course, any mention of any characteristics that can be politically touched, which can refer to such or such reasons why it is in Split, not Zagreb? Why is he here or there? Whether we should be equally placed in this distances us from the basic thoughts and wishes of Ivan Meštrovic. He's just bringing us into something he definitely didn't want to happen. And that's why he didn't want any opposition. But I keep reading both the legacy and the credible witnesses of his time and his successors, when it comes to Split as a center, that he wanted it to be so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85538	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85539	Thank you, Vice President. It would correct the inaccuracy of colleagues Markov when he said Meštrovic had designated Split as the centre of his legacy. In fact, she would read again the Roman chapter II of the gift agreement, which says under A, that the works of art mentioned under 1.A, will be placed in Zagreb and Split, in museums that will form an independent, division of the whole of the donor's works, as indicated in the accompanying lists of these works. Thank you very much. ... It was a mistake. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85540	Thank you. In accordance with Article 207(2), the time has elapsed for the individual hearing for ten minutes. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85541	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The argument which is actually a list of all the things that this law might need to solve, or at least indicate how it will be resolved, and which have been given by distinguished representatives first Ivo Banac, then Ms. Alenka Kosisa Chicin-Sain at the end and Mr. Rožić, has also given me because I know the whole argument, and therefore I will not repeat, brought to the question why is the law really working? And by reading the explanation that we received or the whole position in several items where the reasons for the law being passed, I did not find one single argument that would even speak of the need for law, because the law in many things is... The law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And secondly, the argument is that the type to coordinate this now position of these museums here, museums or foundations etc., with other laws is even irrelevant here, because that is the lex specialis. He makes sense to be different because he's going to be in something different. Why else would we be talking about the law? Why don't something simply be declared a museum, realized, given, someone took over the founding obligations and rights, and then the rest goes according to the laws that are for that museum as well as for each other. So, if there was a need at one point to go to the law, then I guess at another point it's a need to explain why this law is now going as a new law. A team before it contains many elements of the earlier law. So of course I know what it's about. I thought I'd have to say it here first, but, well, it wasn't necessary. Mr Jadran Antolovic, the secretary of state, also said, although it was not written in an explanation. The only important change of this law in relation to the previous law consists in the fact that it is the exclusive position of Ms. Marija Meštrović, who has now remained and opened a serious gap in which all these questions related to copyright, property rights are subsequently rehabilitated, etc. As was the moment when this first law was passed in 1991, Ms. Marica Meštrovic was actually appointed by someone else as the one representing the right of the family so that, in agreement with her, some of the actions would be made either without agreement with her or in agreement with her, it is not important now, which should not have been done under the gift agreement, according to the gift certificate. That's what I should have said. Now neither should Mrs. Marija Meštrovic anymore, there are new times. That should bring it back to the profession. But then what about the relationship of the new law to the gift shop because the new law in no way solves any issue related to the gift in any quality way from an old law that was contrary to the donor but which had to say so a pubic cloth that stands there a representative of the family, so that's when a family representative agrees with something then I guess we can do it the way we do. So there were castings that were not to be poured out, so it was actually left unexplained because Mrs. Marija Meštrovic had very significant and special rights which is now still there and what belongs to the family within that law, whether those 88 parts are in it or somewhere else, where the archive, where the furniture is, where this is, where it is, where it is etc. Now it all opens up as a question just because one of the key positions in the law is eliminated, maybe it's good, I'm not saying it, I'm just commenting now, but these issues haven't been settled. If you want to and if you wanted to go with this law and I underline that I fully support an entire earlier argument that is simply factual in nature, which was mentioned by colleagues, then you should first start from a serious finding of what it is. We either don't have that serious finding, or as agents, we haven't been able to see it, and we only know about the mysterious things that happen. We know that there are at least two Boskovics and that there should be only one Boskovic. Where did two Boskovics come from? Who is it to say so gave the right to pour out someone else? We know a few more cases like that. The arguments we have heard in favor of the law, such as now being put into some kind of, harmonizes with other laws, have no reason because then I say it is not necessary nor the law, but if this is a lex specialis then there is reason to differ. And arguments like the guy that releases some kind of decentralisation, etc. It's really a total nonsens because I guess this is the only case where someone's just asking to be two or three museums and then it's a museum, and it's just an eccentric centralization now, so it's not in one place anymore, it's in another place. She's never been anywhere before. I think passing the law would be necessary but a law that would completely solve and, on the basis of that, say a careful analysis of the situation and the presentation of Meštrovic not only of preservation but of the whole active to say the work and these museums, etc. And who would have us, would not once again walk away from the gift shop itself. Here, in fact, the execution of the gift can still be fully identified with the interests of developing this museum activity and this museum because it is actually there and set up what should be fulfilled and not. And this also means a new space in Zagreb worthy of Meštrović which should certainly be the obligation of both the state and the city of Zagreb to which it is certainly in the interest and different to say the activity, and a different activity which I particularly underline other segments of the former Meštrović Foundation, such as the Meštrović Gallery, etc. Therefore, the arguments given in the law do not make sense as reasons why a new law is passed. And the only reason why it should have possibly gone to a new law is not in reason or mention. This is, therefore, the position of the family or family representative. That is what the secretary of state has now said, but of course it raises the question of the intention of even passing this law. We will, of course, be restrained at the very least. There's still a possibility of doing something here. If there's anything you want to do, don't rush into this law, take enough months to make an actual analysis of what's been going on there. This Parliament should know what was going on and how much was actually in the foundation of all of this complex, where the works were disappearing, where works could be found, which would be done to bring back the works that had disappeared, etc. That's what I think I'd say is a sense that can then possibly follow the need to sort of regulate the position of these museums in a different way. If therefore only the reason for the adoption of these laws is to comply with other laws please nice then the law is not necessary at all, then we have these other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85542	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85543	Look, I think the starting point of the proposal is, I need to concentrate, he gave me Cain to drink two Jägermeisters, I'm not experienced with alcohol. It's very good to have history back and forth from the gift agreement. It's a very good idea, but you should know a gift contract means reading. Ivan Meštrovic, a genius Croatian Cypriot, may have been the largest religious sculptor since Michelangelo, had an accident that the gift agreement had to be signed with the communist regime after his son Mat Meštrovic, whom I welcome here a prominent American-Croatian professor, great Croatian patriot and fighter for Croatian independence and this Croatian independence in the context of a democratic market order, visited... The late dictator Josip Broz in Brijuni and, in a way, pleased with the great divergence between Stalin and Tito, hoped that there would be room for freedom of confession of faith, for democracy that Croatia's then or former Yugoslavia would join the countries of the democratic world and bring this enthusiasm to the talks vegemently spoken of by the American professor of Croatian origin Ivo Banac in a letter with Vladimir Bakaric decided to give Croatian people enormous values. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He had trouble negotiating with Milosha Jeanka. The younger people sitting here won't know, it's a Stalinist villain, but inside of that, he made one contract that knew American legal tradition and that provided all the rights of his own and protected his own art. Among other things, I have talked to representatives of the ministry these days who do not know how to read the gift agreement, in article 9 of the gift agreement, he specifically said that all the costs of implementing this contract go hand in hand to the donor, that is, the Croatian state. There is even a kinky idea of legislators to charge the heirs of the great painter. Don't... to get involved in this because you will lose disputes within the Croatian state, but especially within the future European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have to observe today how this 50-year-old history of history is defrosted? And how indeed one brilliant idea of yours to start to think about the law that comes from the gift agreement to turn into the historical revaluation of Ivan Meštrovic, his European and American revaluation because he is an unfortunate Croatian Cypriot. One of the greatest people of the Croatian 20th century who has had one great happiness that you call in the bill of law is pieces, so it turns out that he gave the Croatian people 130 heavy pieces because they are mostly things either of marbles or of, or they are poured into bronze. But there was one huge legacy left for his successors. Whether you or not we have to sit down with those heirs. They're respectable people, they're smart people. My friend Stjepan Meštrović, Stjepan Gabriel Meštrovic, with whom I wrote 5 books in America defended the right of the Croatian people to freedom, to democracy, to oppose Serbian aggression. He hired one of the beautiful people named Albert Voltstepper who worked for 5 years to stop the war in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. We must treat this family with respect. In preparation for this Act, I'm very sorry State Secretary you haven't consulted any curators. I don't do anything superficial. Yesterday I was in Mletten 8 and I talked to the curators there. Neither Split nor Zagreb curators are consulted. Among the two law readings, "hearing" should be organised in this House, one hearing of people who know Ivan Meštrovic, his art, and to try in some way to exploit the great potential he has. I'll tell you, Frida Kahlo, a great Mexican artist up, practically before she was filmed in Hollywood, she had the value of an art that nobody recognized in Mexico either. After Hollywood made the movie, her art jumped, 10, 15, 50 times. We must do something similar with Ivan Mestrovic. What is practically possible to do? I have one proposal that I've talked about with a number of people who might look completely freaked out, but on the other hand he can also be interpreted as an absolutely genius proposal, which is, you don't know or some don't know that Ivan Meštrovic studied for 5 years in Vienna. That he was full of famous industrialist Carl Vintgenstein, whose son is Ludwig Wintgenstein, one of the most cultured modern philosophers today. The great enemy of Karl Popper, who Antun Vujic, whom he wanted to hit with a light bulb all over his head. So we need to see what could be done to simply reveal Meštrovic to the world public. Stjepan Meštrović, a friend of mine, grandson of the company Meštrovic, not Mate Meštrovic had a brilliant idea to make a Hollywood film about Ivan Meštrovic and make a brand of Ivan Meštrovic made of Frieda Kahlo. And that could be done in Croatia. In the practical sense of Mletska 8 is one concept of a museum that has become very outdated. What you could do tomorrow is start negotiations on the purchase of Mletska 10, which was the house that Ivan Meštrovic donated to Ruži Klein, to his first wife and who was abused by communists. There were some caves there, but as far as I know from three apartments, one was sold practically until yesterday. That house should eventually try to buy. As for permanent accommodation precisely because Ivan Meštrovic studied sculpture. He studied architecture for two, two years. It has left over two thousand architectural idea projects or implementation projects that are the majority owned by the family. It should simply return Ivan Meštrovic to his natural habitat. And this is his Meštrovic Pavilion in Fascism Victims Square, the headquarters of the Croatian Democratic Community. Of course, one compensation should be offered to the Croatian Fine Arts Society. There's a cold space. In a way, Ivan Meštrović would be deproved because this museum was built as a museum to preserve his family tradition, his studio, his way of thinking. This museum in Fascism Victims Square could turn into a modern or even post-modern museum and I think that with great effort between two readings with a good understanding of the complexity of this problem can be done a lot. If we make our family not friends that won't be good, they are very tolerant, smart people who are in charge of Croatia and to end up with one proposal. Ivan Meštrović gave the Croatian people enormous wealth. The Croatian state could establish perhaps 5 scholarships that would be called Ivan Meštrovic's scholarships, two of which would share perhaps with the daughters of my friend Stjepan Meštrovic and could be done much if there is a communication consciousness. And if you understand this very complex problem that can bring enormous benefits both to the Croatian state and to the Croatian people and to the revaluation of Ivan Meštrovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85544	Is it a correction to an incorrect quote or a replica? ... It's a replica, isn't it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You've been correcting an incorrect quote and replica, both of you. [[Intruder: Replica.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85545	No, no, replica, replica. No. The mistake was to apologize for being a little distracted as well as modeling in the morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85546	Did you two hang out?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85547	A brilliant presentation of my colleague Slaven Letica who reached both Wingenstein and Popper and... Too bad the team... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It didn't even get the heirs a little orderly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But as the family can't speak here, but it would certainly stand behind this proposal to make this unfortunate, everything that should have been a great museum dedicated to Croatian fine art and then later the mosque, and then some of them took off these minarets to really become the real museum of Ivan Meštrovic. I think we should definitely make this proposal to our legislators of this law, don't be surprised, colleagues. You've got a lot on your mind with a glimmer... With Vrpol, with Split, and about this idea which is also really brilliant and this is how you deal easily if you spread your hands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we're spreading our hands to what you suggested. So I really think that this proposal by fellow Letica, a serious proposal, should certainly be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85548	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85549	I thank my colleague Kramaric. For example, people may not know that the history of the Croats has been ordered by the prince of Paul and that it is the original in Belgrade. Therefore, my proposal to consult curators first of all, in Zagreb curators and in Split curators. Your quantitative argument in favour of moving the museum headquarters to Split because there are quantitatively more art down there is worth you as half a pipe of tobacco. So it's one too serious thing that if there were three statues more or less, it would be legitimacy for moving the seat. That's one serious subject I have to say I have no competence to speak of. I only respect the Meštrovic family endlessly. I love Stjepan Meštrovic and I respect and I hope that Mr Mate Meštrović will also support this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85550	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85551	In view of the current course of debate, I would just like to support the proposal of this law which I think will ultimately settle this area well and will not make an obstacle for all those who should benefit of course from this collection and who will be guided in a way that is prescribed by Croatian laws. And I see first of all that general benefit of these arts being reached, of course, the widest circle of those who are interested. So to benefit the entire Croatian society. So in that sense, I support the bill. And I think he'll do better than before and for the benefit of repeating all those who are interested and historians of art and most... construction, tourism and all those indirect and direct benefits better arranged than ever before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85552	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85553	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will speak more in principle today, and I will try to use the example of Ivan Meštrovic to try to point to the very difficult position of other greats in oblivion and to what we should start from today systematically solve. I agree that Ivan Meštrovic will get his museums. I agree that everything that is said here, and it refers to correcting our position in relation to its heritage and its successors, should be included in the law and corrected by second reading. But what I don't agree with is that today we don't burn down on similar giants and forgetting these giants. This is the first reading, so I allow myself and I hope that our distinguished government representatives here, especially in front of the Ministry of Culture, will appreciate it and finally come from a dead end. Namely, I will not go beyond my county, from the Primorian-Gorski County. But you'll see, he'll probably admit that in their counties it's the same, if not worse. Namely, which giants do I want to warn here? Here is one great man who was born in my county is Julius Klovic. Have either of you ever been to Julius Clovic's house? Do any of you know which village Julius Klovic was born in? Probably no one knows anything about him. Unfortunately, millions and millions of tourists crossing the coast don't know that either. Pancic, probably our greatest botanist of all time. A man who discovered a vast number of endemic species in Eastern Europe. What's the condition of his house? It collapsed years ago. It's where the big trees grow. Pancic, Joseph Pancic forever forgotten. Barumic, a man who bought one of the first printing machines, so he realized the importance of Gutenberg's discovery was printed by the Senjski Misala. And how much do we know about him? Do we know where the only copy of the original copy of the Senjski thought is in Croatia today? Probably no parliamentary representative knows that. He doesn't know, of course, I doubt more than one, two, three MPs know that. In which museum is the Senjski Misal? There was nothing better than Petric. Nothing better went past the great treasure we have, I would say hidden in the Pomorie and historical museum in Rijeka, dug in the settlement of the Stranger near Tribba. The 10th century beautiful jewellery of our artists, our craftsmen of silver made objects of the 10th century. None of you have ever seen them. One exhibition has been since these treasures were discovered, never again. The museum of the verb of a colleague and colleague in Vrbnik. 60% of books ever written with verbs are located in a small museum of 30 and some square meters. The air is not conditioned at all. That wealth, our cultural heritage is crumbling at an enormous rate because of our indifference, ignorance, inadequacy. Similarly, it is known about the Vrbnik Law, the Kasar Statute, the Veprina Statute. These were the first laws, collections of ordinary law in our Europe. You know? The Vinodol bar has space, something can be found in Vidol, and these have nothing. That's the tragedy I'm talking about. I mean, I can keep this story going for hours. In my River of Torpedo construction, millions of tourists pass through never hear anything about it. I'm a doctor, there's a lot of doctors in the Parliament here. Do you know where the iodine ink was first prepared? Right in the river. One brilliant disinfectant that we've already used for hundreds of years in all the hospitals on this planet. No one knows. No one's missing it. No one wants it or tries to use it for tourist purposes, for economic purposes. In the European Union 20% of tourism revenues come from cultural tourism. Our percentage could be well above 20% given the cultural heritage we have. But what would I tell the ministry gentlemen? Try to go to one system solution once already. Let us try to categorize our greats to those of global importance, European importance, national importance, regional importance. Let's try to tell who we're going to give, how much space, how much effort, how much money. Does he deserve some sort of memorial house, whether it's a museum, depending on its significance. Let's give him at least 1 m2 of permanent exhibition space in one of the existing museums. These giants I've listed don't have a square inch of permanent exhibition space, no one knows about them. They're an object of oblivion. That's sad. Let's use Meštrovic to help solve the other giants' issue. What do you say in the end? I have a feeling that there is only one constant of Croatian politics from the former regime and today, that small politicians are afraid of great people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85554	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He concluded his speech by counterpart Doric that small politicians are afraid of great people, but they are not afraid of their actions, and that the country's attitude towards private property is astounding and startling. And otherwise, the relationship between public and private is very discriminatory and is very different from sphere to sphere. Where the state should be strong and show its power to protect the weaker, it says it will not interfere. He likes the private initiative to the extremes. Today, we have heard in a number of answers from ministers to specific questions when certain laws, i.e. proposals of the law, will come into the parliamentary procedure which is very necessary, and we have received the answer that associations should agree, that these are different opinions of the profession and so the mandate has passed in two significant areas that the law, or the bill, does not exist. And this is about heirs, not only to the heirs and somehow to the elemental jurisdiction that they are wondering about something so important, that it is asked at the end of every citizen, because at the end and foundations of the public institution and must be transparent and open to the public, but it is about the obligation of the 52nd gift that a great law has done precisely, or the 91st year foundation law, and instead of repairing that law, it is now simply rescinding what many colleagues have and hardened. The reason that this bill is necessary is because there is the Law on the foundation of Ivan Meštrovic is not in line with the Law on Institutions, the Law on Museums and the Law on the Management of Public Institutions in Culture in 2001 and these laws adopted significantly earlier are only partially accurate, but it is only the technical nature of the law and the need. But what was substancefully objected to by the Foundation Act itself, and what was ignored by this law, i.e. in such an ignoring manner just confirms that lawlessness and ignoring obligations, legal obligations from a clear and binding gift, seem to be of no concern to the government. And therefore, very specific questions, where the outflows, which are dealing with this property, are being tormented and in one way bureaucratic if there was even a conversation of heirs and a hanging. Thus, such a relationship is already questionable about the very ignoring of the law, as regards the very reasons in the law on these issues. So very specific questions from the gift shop itself, out of will, and after all, and everything that's been going on. Here we heard what was going on on 45th about Žanko Odrankovic, etc. So the more insecure we are in the present, the more we reach for some kind of justification in the past. The question arises as to what has happened here since 91, whether it is a wish or a will, or whether it will be resolved or not. The Government's representative says that these are not at all questions, that these are not even questions that are being touched at all by the gift rights of 52, that this law does not, or does not touch those rights, but that this existing law that is being abolished under this law is only being brought into line, so the Law on Foundations with these laws on museums and these other laws that came after that. It's just not like that. If the government was also in error, and it cannot possibly be mistaken because it was warned by the public here by almost every representative who spoke on behalf of the club and individually, apart from the ruling ones, was warned by heirs, legal heirs, professions, but the government remains resilient in this. The question of intent would be ugly to open here, those words were just speaking on behalf of the club our representative... on behalf of the SDP club, our representative Vujic and finished his speech. For this reason, to insist on the adoption of a law whose constitutionality issue is wide open, and ultimately, it is certain that it will also cause a European court to react. So, here's what might be even wider, there's time to discuss these things, to call the heirs, to take a good look at the gifts, and that this bill must take care of these very explicit provisions in such a hidden way, it ignores them, but essentially does not ignore them, but confirms the previous lawlessness created by the existing Foundation Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85556	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, a 5-minute debate, the esteemed representative of Alenka Kosisa Chicin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85557	Thank you very much. Here I once again appeared in the debate for the reason that it seems important to underline some of the things that have been missed in the proposal of this Law, are not sufficiently highlighted or should be changed because they do not, in themselves, cover everything that this proposal is going for. I say, I repeat, although compliance with the legislation was necessary, and thank God that there was a proposal for a new law, I think the name of the law itself is very questionable for those reasons that I just led them to a debate this morning about the fact that, for example, an object in the Ottavavica is a sacral object, that it is not a museum. So how are you going to seduce him under the Museum Act? And also the museum in Vrpolje, how you're going to seduce him when it's a museum that's outside this Museum Act. So think about it. It seems to me that there are some dilemmas that would be incorrect and I think it would be better if you found a similar one, but still a slightly different name of this law. I would also once again, like all my previous associates, refer to the question of heirs. Of course, it was not good for the heirs to their decision - making participation to have had such great powers that they could veto certain things that were purely technical or organisational. I also think it was wrong to accept the decisions and proposals of the HAZU, i.e. the JAZU, that four successors represent one successor. I don't think it's possible for someone to appoint someone to be an heir, but I think that's where we should find a deal with the heirs. They can name each other, but no foreign body of the type HAZU or JAZU can appoint them as heirs. I think it's a mistake, wrong, and of course I think it's very important to cooperate with the heirs, and it's inevitable to cooperate with them because those copyright laws still have a large number of years ahead of them and they have copyright rights to all the works that come from the domain of the contract that was realised in '52. And then the one in '59. A year. So, this cooperation will have to be as difficult and difficult as it is, and we know that there are differences between them and it's not easy to cooperate with them all, but I think it's necessary and it has to be. Also, as far as moving the seat, I have to admit that you failed to convince me that the seat after 16 years and then the foundation, now tomorrow the museum, was moving from one location where it was doing well for 16 years and it was possible to do that job to another location. So not only mentioning the costs that will be generated by moving from all the above titles, etc. I think it is, an argument that in Split the largest number of works, so the Cypriot works, I think is not enough because the law itself and the work itself is not only about works, but also about the complete opus and the full protection of the name Ivan Meštrovic, and we know that all other documents are much more significant and more stored in Zagreb than in Split. I also think it is important that this important proposal well defines whether it is a thousand 25 or a thousand 70 works, and that when you come to Parliament next time, you explain where those 45 pieces are lost. In addition, as regards the very accommodation of the museum in the City of Zagreb, Meštrovic himself said in the contract that it was temporary accommodation. There is a building from the Meštrovic family complex, building in Mletska 10. There is a possibility to buy this out and to unite it into a complex, and I apply for it even though the proposals that have been made by my colleagues Slaven Letica, which a colleague of Slaven Letica has made, are also a valid proposal, but also given the way museums and museums that have the highest quality are now being solved in the ambience, indigenous environments. So, I think you'd like a solution with the Milky 8 and... Mletek 10 was a good solution and on this plan we expect in cooperation with the City of Zagreb that it will solve it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85558	Thank you. It's final. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85559	Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct the incorrect assumption, the incorrect interpretation in the sense that after so many years it is not and that it is too expensive to move the seat to Split. I think absolutely if we were to refer to the heirs and their interpretations and views, I'd just try to quote one of the heirs, Matu Meštrovic, who said Ivan Meštrovic designated Split as the centre of his artistic legacy, and that the gallery and the castle in Split should have been included in the World Heritage List long ago. It is therefore irrelevant how much time has passed since the decision that was not based on the legacy. It is important that the legacy is respected, that the will is respected and with the fact that it is confirmed by the heirs, and they confirm it speaks in favour of the fact that there are reasons, clearly with the removal of all the shortcomings I was saying the seat should be moved to Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85560	Thank you. Finally, State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture Mr Antolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85561	Let me finally thank you for this truly exhaustive and content debate and just add everything I have said that the foundation of Ivan Meštrovic was very actively involved in making this proposal, and so I have said in my previous speech, that on behalf of the heirs, Ms. Marica Meštrović, and the board of directors also played a very active role in the making of this Law, and here if anyone wants to have insight into the special powers of all the heirs who were given to Ms. Meštrović just so that she could represent the heirs in the work of the foundation and so on in making this Law. Thank you very much for all your remarks one more time. We will consider each of the remarks and I hold that they have been very helpful in determining the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85562	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85563	Proposal for a law on the museums of Ivan Meštrovic, first reading. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposed law on the museums of Ivan Meštrovic is being adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 69 for, 6 abstentions, 15 against accepted and this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85564	Moving to the next 3. Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the control of the abuse of intoxicating drugs – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of HSP – Second Reading, P.Z. No. 471 Proposer of the Law is the Club of HSP Representatives. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to Article 155, 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Honored representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85565	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter The Penal Code generally provides in which cases a change in the security measure of confiscation of the case, which is unequivocally prescribed in Article 173(7), in relation to intoxicating drugs. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The law on criminal proceedings stipulates that the court which issued the first sentence will decide whether to withdraw the cases among other things. In accordance with Article 218(1) of the judgment, the Court of Justice will decide on insurance and storage. A paragraph 5 of the Rules of Procedure as well as Articles 177 and 174 of the same Law. The obligations of the court in relation to the cases suspended are also prescribed in Articles 305, 446 and 463. Penalty law. The Law on Infringements in Articles 184 and 185 provides for the process of confiscation and treatment of taken-off cases. Thus, Article 185(4) states that articles that are dangerous to the lives and health of people will be destroyed, which is decided by a solution to the offence as well as intoxicating drugs in this case. During the 48th session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs in Vienna from 7 to 11.3.2005, a resolution was also discussed that the seized drugs were not used for sale for commercial purposes. Since no legislation of the European Union countries knows the solution set out in Article 51. The law on the prevention of drug abuse "The People's News" 141.4 sells and uses intoxicating drugs as raw materials. The competent Ministry of Health has taken over the obligation to propose an erasure of the disputed provision, which has not been done so far. In accordance with all of the above, it is urgent to adopt the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the control of the abuse of intoxicating drugs which would change Article 51 in such a way as to read: "The intoxicating drugs, parts of the plant or of the substance referred to in point 2 of Article 2 of this Act will be taken away under this law or other legislation by the power of judgment or a solution. Drug intoxication can also be destroyed at the end of a three-year period, from the day of filing a criminal application to the State's Attorney's Office." Despite the obligations of the courts prescribed in Article 20. ZOMP's "National Journal" 178/4, that without delay, first-degree courts deliver final judgments in connection with the abuse of intoxicating drugs to the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia, so far experience shows what is particularly highlighted in smaller municipal courts, but also in some county courts, that this obligation is not respected. For this formal legal reason, the drug taken isn't being destroyed. Long-term drug protection is a major security problem and unnecessary and high material costs arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85566	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? The Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy, the Honorable Representative, Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85567	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs! The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health discussed at the 67th meeting of the Committee held on 6 February 2007 the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Association of Representatives of the HSP by an act of 4 December 2006. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The members of the Committee had the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the final draft law. Following the opening argument, most Committee members supported the proposed solution aimed at destroying the seized drug by the power of the solution. The long-term storage of intoxicated drugs in the opinion of the Committee members poses a significant security problem due to the possibility of returning part of the drug to the market. The Committee member expressed concern by proposing a three-year deadline in which intoxicating drugs can be destroyed, counting on the date of the criminal application to the State's attorney. The opinion is that judicial proceedings as more significant drug confiscation take much longer than that deadline, and that, instead of introducing this deadline, it should be done to increase the efficiency of the judiciary, particularly in these proceedings. At the end of the debate, most of the votes were abstentioned, the Committee proposed to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the Prevention of the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs in the text as proposed by the Association of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85568	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Ljubica Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85569	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a proposal to amend and supplement the law, which is very short according to its text. The law contains only two articles. However, under the consequences of this law, this is a very significant law. Thus, this law amends Article 51 of the existing law. To better understand what it is, of course, it is necessary to examine the current article 51, which it contains. It contains a provision whereby drugs can be used as raw materials, can be sold to legal persons and used mainly in the pharmaceutical industry. We absolutely agree, if this is the position and the resolution of the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs, that drugs cannot be used as raw materials, that this item should be deleted. Because I think we need to bring our legislation into line with resolutions, especially the United Nations, because there's probably absolutely an excuse for that. Although I do know when we passed the Law on the control of drug abuse that the aim of this item was to take advantage of all of that if possible something useful could be used to give priority. Furthermore, Article 51 states: "If intoxicating drugs, parts of plants or substances referred to in Article 2(2) of this Act cannot be used as raw materials, they will be destroyed.". So interactively, it will be destroyed. There is no decision on whether or not it can be done, but it will be destroyed. The proposaler or the HSP Club suggests that changes which defacto says so will be destroyed. However, a fundamental question arises when drugs will be destroyed. We at the Croatian Peasant Party's Club absolutely support the destruction of the seized drug for one reason we are firmly convinced that a good part of the seized drug ends again on the market. We could read that on the drug market, of course, in the press. And it kind of seems logical to us because when we read there about the arrest of a major drug dealer who was detained with the goal of being taken into custody, however, our police are taking him to coffee, he's smoking. So if that's the police's relationship to proven drug dealers, then unfortunately, I can't and we can't believe that part of the seized drug isn't coming back to the market. And that's a really big problem. And we agree that this drug is really a security problem. However, is it possible to solve this problem exactly the way this law proposes. It will be destroyed when, by the power of judgment and resolution. It seems logical to the first step quite acceptable. However, we wonder what will happen in those cases, which are mainly, not mostly, but always the biggest drug dealers, the biggest drug dealers to use their legal options, so let's say within five years, will launch a request for a repeat procedure. That request will be accepted. The procedure will be renewed and we will no longer have any evidence. What's the consequence? The lack of evidence is an acquittal. Therefore, it could be resolved in this way but by intervention still in some other laws that would regulate the way in which the evidence is determined and preserved because of the lack of evidence, because the evidence was destroyed by the will of the competent authority under the law, we think it is too dangerous. The second article says: "Drinking drugs can also be destroyed at the end of a three-year period from the day of filing a criminal application to the competent state attorney's office.". Starting with the up-to-dateness of our judicial authority for serious drug crimes within three years, not all evidence can be collected and perhaps not even a criminal case will be initiated, let alone end. And now, before it was launched or by the time the charges were filed, the seized drug was destroyed. Therefore, we aim to show really the need to destroy the seized drug as a real security problem in the Republic of Croatia, but we point to what may happen and indeed from perhaps lack of thought we will allow just those who are the richest in the lives and health of our children, our citizens, to be freed from responsibility for lack of evidence. We've been talking and we've been thinking about putting up with the amendment. The amendment would not be extensive, would not change the essence but would contain one reserve which is that these evidence is not destroyed before they definitely cease to be evidence in a particular procedure. If I understand correctly by reading this law since, according to the current law, drugs are being destroyed by law and in practice is not being destroyed, it is obvious that the problem in the communication of the bodies that have committed drug confiscation and those who need to destroy it is. I think it can be solved in some other way. And even so, whoever's in charge of destroying drugs won't know when a verdict's legal if the court didn't let her know. And how decisions are made and how they should be delivered is, of course, governed by sublaws. And it is not a fundamental problem in the Republic of Croatia because drugs are not being destroyed because it is not known whether the verdicts are justified, there is no special decision, destruction under the existing article of the law, the decision on destruction is made by the competent authority. The main problem is the lack of a burner. Whether we will address these changes and additions to the issue of lack of communication from the bodies that have committed drug confiscation and those who are responsible for their destruction, or we will open up the whole way to possible abuses in the function of liberating the biggest drug dealers, there remains a certain reserve, and we have failed even after today's presentation of the proposing representative to resolve this dilemma.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85570	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85571	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the day, I should say that the IDS Club will support this proposal, the final draft of the law amending and supplementing the laws on the prevention of drug abuse, regardless of the fact that this proposal has only two articles and, in fact, when we look at it, there is only one article that regulates very important things that are happening today in our society. Therefore, Article 51 of the Law on the Prevention of the Abuse of Drug Intoxication is amended and reads as follows: "The intoxication of drugs, parts of plants or substances referred to in Article 2(2) of this Act will be withdrawn on the basis of the provisions of this Act or of other rules will be destroyed by the power of judgment or a solution. Intoxicating drugs can also be destroyed at the end of a three-year period from the day of the criminal application to the competent state attorney's office." My colleagues and colleagues are dealing with this one big problem that is still present today, and we all know that he is present. Despite the court's obligation to provide without delay the first-degree courts with final rulings in connection with the abuse of drug intoxication, the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Croatia has shown what has been particularly highlighted in smaller municipal courts as well as in some county courts that the obligation is not respected. For this formal-law reason, the drug taken isn't being destroyed. Long-term storage of intoxicating drugs is a major security problem and unnecessary costs arise, material costs. And not only that, but it comes to exactly what this law gives a solution to. I also believe that since no legislation of the countries of the European Union knows the solution set out in Article 51a of the Law on 51. The law on the prevention of drug abuse, which prescribes the sale and use of intoxicating drugs as well as raw materials, has taken over the obligation to delete or amend the contested provision of this law, which has not been done so far, which is not good. So once again, this law only has two articles. Of course, this first article is important, which says that intoxicating drugs can be destroyed at the end of a period of 3 years from 3 years from the date of the criminal application to the competent state attorney's office. And the IDS Club will take it with a heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85572	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative, Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85573	Mr Vice-President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club discussed this final proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse by the HSP Representatives Club and supported it knowing that the impact of drug intoxication is not only mental or physical but also has significant social implications. Here in exactly five days will be exactly 3 years from the debate in the first reading of the Law on the control of drug abuse. The HDZ Representatives Club believes that the proposed amendment of this Bill allows continuity, not a single segment campaign, and guarantees efficiency, professionality and thoroughness, and contributes to the overall stabilisation of the drug abuse system and that is why we will vote in favour of this proposal. Often, campaigns that are unfortunately present on our scene are counterproductive when it comes to suppressing drug abuse. Among other things, they are seen in the devastating data of the number of deaths of intoxicating drugs. So the importance is on the continuity and legal proposals that follow this area. The national strategy or the prevention of drug abuse, we know, was brought by the Croatian National Assembly back in 1996 and it is the basis for all the bodies of the state administration and the bodies of the local community as well as NGOs. The Republic of Croatia is also actively involved in regional co-operation because it is on the so-called The Balkan route they say passes 80% of the heroin spent in Western Europe. According to the available data that can be found, the last major drug destruction occurred in October 2000 when the "Roto" burns in Zagreb's Jakushevec, 862kg of cocaine, and then on 4 July 2001, 3 and a half tonnes of marijuana were burned in cans of fruit compote seized in international operations by the police of Slovenia, Austria, Italy, the Netherlands, Great Britain and Croatia. It is, the lack of a burner is present but this bill, it is not solved by this bill. We can conclude that international organisations are increasingly in favour of harmonisation of legislation, disclosure of money laundering, detection of illegal laboratories, prevention of the spread of infectious diseases, and reduction of demand and drug trafficking. In order to effectively coordinate and systematically combat drug abuse, as well as to include all segments of society activities related to the prevention of drug abuse and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we recall that in February 2004, the Action Plan to combat drug abuse as a fundamental guideline of the action of all entities involved in the anti-addiction system. In this regard, we believe that we should support the proposed solution on the destruction of the seized drug by the power of the solution because the non-destruction becomes a major and security problem, while at the same time harmonising with the United Nations resolution, Vienna March 2005, where in paragraph 5 of those Resolutions the governments of the countries are called on not to use seized intoxicating drugs to sell for commercial purposes. I say the HDZ Club will support this bill and expect it then probably and perhaps these problems that will result from possible lack of evidence, and so on, by intervention into other laws or in some other similar way, and so we will have one complete situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85574	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative, Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85575	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. As this bill is very short, so will my debate on behalf of the SDP Club be relatively brief. The extent of drug abuse in the world is known today. Police practice and reports from state and other institutions on the problem say Croatia is not an exception, even the more the situation has taken alarming proportions in recent years. Unfortunately, organisations and individuals, drug dealers tend to stay out of the reach of repression measures and mainly process irrelevant retail dealers or small-scale opiate owners for personal use, so the problem of systematic drug abuse remains a hot chestnut of our society. But to go back to the bill itself. The SDP representative club supports any initiative that offers solutions to improve the current situation in this area and thus this proposal by the HSP Representatives Club. However, there are several dilemmas that should be considered and that should be resolved in order to take a step further towards an effective solution to the problem of drug abuse. First of all, it would also be good to consider amending the legislation relating to the destruction of drug confiscation so that it could be destroyed immediately after the investigation has been completed and after the prosecution has been brought up, because in this 3-year-old drug-saving proposal, there is still a problem of storage space, storage costs, and also a potential danger of abuse of power and unauthorized drug-absorbed alienation which could again be found on the drug market, on the illegal drug market. Although this deadline is significantly shorter than the current practice of waiting for powerful judicial solutions in the reality of the ineffectiveness of our judicial system when a single solution is awaited for ten years, it comes out of date and so on and often, even after the decision-making process is passed, it does not destroy itself. The problem that this law does not solve is the way to destroy the seized drug. Here's something we heard about earlier from a colleague named Lalic. In fact, we don't have a burner so far, they're giving us the only possibility of giving us a high stove in our ironworks. No joke aside. However this law is a step further in addressing the problem of drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. The SDP advocates' club will also vote for its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85576	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85577	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Any attempt to advance legislation in this area is certainly welcome and we support these efforts to amend the law by the HSP. We think they're completely justified. And we will support this proposal to amend the law. At the same time, however, we would like to draw attention to some possible shortcomings that will follow and ask you to suggest several conclusions, possibly with these amendments to the law. You have until the vote is such an opportunity to do some work. And I'll tell you what we're suggesting is basically just to try to make sure your proposal works. In fact, you have indicated that this communication between the court and the MUP is a key, or lack of communication. And you're suggesting that drugs can be destroyed in the power of judgment and that they can be destroyed at the end of a three-year period, etc. But it can, it can, it can, it doesn't have to, it can. So in Croatia usually can mean nothing. You have to agree with me, it doesn't mean anything. It would be good, therefore, to propose the following in the conclusions with these amendments. That the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Internal Affairs have established for us the delivery, that is, to our competent parliamentary working body, does not have to be for us, which the courts did not deliver to the MUP. It would be good to know who doesn't do his job. That's the first one. Secondly, the Ministry of Justice must commit itself to taking appropriate measures to establish the quality of the communication we are talking about all the time. Let them tell us what these measures are. And third, we've heard we don't have adequate burners. Then let us be told where he is so far, when, what amount and where that drug of burning is. I think that's important. As well as the pressure method that I have essentially all the arguments, all the data, and that way we know exactly where the weak spot in the system that we're going to be working on in the future is getting more and more pressure and helping you absolutely. We think it's absolutely justified to do so. Because over a hundred young people lose their lives every year because of an overdose. Thousands and thousands of young people have been expelled from the educational system for years, from the work process, and the damage is enormous. The thousands of families are also being destroyed, and that is why our support is to you. But please let's go reveal all the elements that haven't made the system work yet, and he could have tried to avoid it in the future. So you have the support of the Croatian People's Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85578	Thank you. PGS, MDS and SBH, respected representative Zeljko Pavlic. He's gone. It's gone. Then he loses his word. The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. He's not here. It loses its right to say the same. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85579	Thank you, Mr. President. I support the amendments to the existing law on the prevention of drug abuse as proposed by the HSP club. The truth is, it's a promotion of the existing law. But it could really move on. Since it is often about large quantities of drugs seized and then after taking the sample, there would be no obstacle without any concern of the destruction of evidence that these huge quantities would then be destroyed, not waiting 3 years after reporting where only such a university was now proposed that they could be destroyed even before the power of power. However, in any case, this is progress and to welcome it in relation to the basic Law on the Prevention of Intoxication, the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which was adopted in 2001, was later changed. The problem with drug abuse is a big problem. He has to get rid of it systematically. Unfortunately, this system, which was designed just in 2001 by passing this law, followed by specific measures in the Law on Infringements against the Owners, drug users, and a significant 2003 law novel, created good, almost ideal conditions for one good fight against those who import drugs, against drug lords, against drug dealers. However, it has fallen into the water with a completely wrong criminal justice policy that does not produce results, which victimises more than delinquent, perpetrators. So today our criminal justice system is being exhausted in petty punishments, in the persecution of those who are victims, those who produce drugs, large dealers, who are precious witnesses precisely in the discovery of that drug ring. Here someone has asked the question why these courts and certain courts don't even deliver to the Ministry of the Interior, to the individual police administrations of a judicial verdict. First of all, the criminal justice system should be known precisely in the area of punishment, i.e. the processing of drug abuse crimes. Our legislation, our criminal law, along with basic criminal offences, has as severe as minor forms of crime over 700 incriminations. Our courts deal with this crime of drug abuse compared to almost 25% compared to total crime, and out of that, 75% goes to only the blight compared to the most large, most difficult form of drug abuse, which is production, dealing, so it's exhausting by 75% several years ago now with a tendency of even close to 80%. That's what we've been burdening the courts with with legislation. This was later changed even for a minor amount of dealings prescribed a minimum sentence of three years without the possibility of mitigation as our great willingness to fight drug abuse. And what happened? He's atrophied the entire system. He's atrophy the prison system. Director of the prison system... don't send us any more convicts, there's no place to put them. Wrong policy, and drugs, drug abuse doesn't go down like this. So we've hit on those who need help and we've set them free in exactly the same way that they need to be reserved for the most severe sanctions, or for the impact of criminal sanctions, rather than exhausting ourselves in these petty matters. And that's something to seriously think about, which should be considered because it shows, so it's not my seeing or seeing us in our own SDP when we're talking about it, but it's what they're talking about and there's relevant data. But he insists on it, although the last changes, the last two amendments to the criminal law went in that direction and then really the courts are not effective, because technology needs to be known. I repeat to you that we are exhausting ourselves, to which the edge of the criminal trial, the trial, and then the punishments, are precious witnesses who know, who can discover the chain, but they shut up normally because they would get even more punishment, because they would be attributed to the organization, creating a network. And they get that one sentence, whether they're paroled, if they're added to someone now they'll get three years minimum and please and break down one whole relationship of heads and certain dangers of criminal acts. You can rob all the treasures in Croatia if it is not done by force is the maximum penalty of 10 years. And when this unfortunate, one victim, one heavy addict, a severe patient should experience and observe him and then treat him in such a way, add the same to such a poor person to himself a small amount of the law is unmistakable, immeasurable, three years minimum without the possibility of easing, and then later we, with some additional changes, want to sort of jump at it. If this thing is not placed in such a radical way and the criminal justice is dispersed, and these addicts don't transfer the victims to criminal responsibility, of course with the obligation of treatment, we'll still have the expansion of the drug user, we won't know what to do with and/or very difficult and with these huge amounts of what to do. These are huge costs for the state and for the family mentioned here, or two speakers. Therefore, I welcome these amendments to the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, but this fundamental law has been incorporated with amendments to the Law on Violation, with amendments to the Penal Code which would have been removed from its content, which would no longer contain incrimination, but not as a message it is positive or some desirable behaviour, it is socially condemnable behaviour but cannot have any socially unacceptable behaviour. In such a way, it gets wide, but it loses its blade it must have, and then we have the consequence that we don't know where we're going with huge quantities of drugs whose importers, whose producers usually remain unknown, but that's why we know their victims rolling in the streets, which are rotting, which are then all over the columns, the entire army is being defiling every day in front of our municipal courts. Confused to help, not condemn them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85580	Thank you. Final Review, Honored Representative, Proposer Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85581	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues are the reason why we have submitted the bill, the changes because there are about 8 thousand intoxicated drugs in Croatia annually. So 8 grand seized a year, and the drugs haven't been burned since 2001. Now imagine how many packages or packages are in storage. And in the Unite of the National Drug Control Program, they have brought the exact formula for the exemption or taking of a drug sample that needs to be destroyed. So there's an exact program or way to take samples and keep them for trial. Of course, in any more serious case, drug destruction is a deal between the police and the state's attorney's office, which is why we've made a suggestion that it can be destroyed, and it doesn't have to be. So if it's three tons somewhere and international smugglers, of course it'll be left to court. This way we'd get rid of all the backlogs where they're still being held. For example, police officers told me they're guarding a joint from Vinkovci that was seized in 92 years. They have no idea where it's from or what it's like, but they can't destroy it. Or if it's a case against an unknown perpetrator, the court won't rule until it's there's no perpetrator. Or what if the object goes out of date. So destroying drugs after three years, which means it can but doesn't have to, would reduce the storage problem, the security problem of the warehouse, and less opportunities for drugs to appear on the street again. And if there are any problems, it can be solved by a sublegal act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85582	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse, second reading. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. We can vote. The result? With 95 for and one abstention accepted suggested conclusion. ... Law, law passed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You confused your colleague Adlesic, and she voted with abstention. You distracted her. You distracted the vice president's attention, and then she voted with abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85585	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'm going to try to explain what we've done with this proposal of conclusions, and I'm taking it a long time ago, and we wanted to do it a long time ago. When the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision on the sale of part of the INA shares, we responded immediately to Parliament with a proposal to give the Government the obligation to carry out two additions to that decision. In the 1st point of the proposal of the Parliament's conclusions, we proposed that the government in its decision foresee the possibility that Croatian pension funds can offer binding offers with the right of the championship. Therefore, all Croatian pension funds are in a position to make offers and all those quotas, or with the title of the championship and others, and that Croatian citizens also have the possibility to make such offers with the right of the championship without special benefits above the amount of 38,000 kuna. Since the government's decision was made, you are probably wondering why the document's proposal was not withdrawn from the procedure and why we insist that the Parliament conducts the debate on it knowing that it will not be accepted. Because of what has been announced in the meantime and what we fear most, which I will ultimately explain. Why did we submit this proposal? At the time of decision-making and preparation for its implementation, 20 bids were placed on the market by the government when the amount of shares placed on the market. So, at the very first moment, it was visible that 20 bidders would compete for one part of the INA. Secondly, Croatian pension funds do not have legal personality status, i.e. they are owned by citizens who pay their contribution whether they are voluntary or compulsory pension funds and their inclusion in the government decision would not require a change of the INA privatisation law. During the biggest campaign and the implementation of the enrolment or tendering for the purchase of the stock, even HANFA had to react publicly and warn the Deputy Prime Minister of Mr Polancec, who, with several public statements, tried to discourage those who intended to make an offer for the purchase of the shares and they marked it as an attempt by the Executive Authority to influence their registration and the price of those shares. In the final phase, the government set the price of one share of €690. At the same time, it was official that INA's last year's profit was now a billion and 400 million, and at the same time Croatian pension funds had around 3 and a half billion kuna of investment funds to invest in securities. What was not registered by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Government decided again with its decision to sell in such a way that the remaining portfolio was sold 65% to foreign customers and 35% to domestic customers. So, the moment the price was known, the moment it was known that there were 20 bids on one share, the moment it was known that it had won INA a billion 400 and the moment it was known that pension funds had 3 and a half billion kuna of capital that they could invest in securities. At that point, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decides 65% or about 490 thousand shares of INA are sold to foreign investors. The INA privatisation law says the government will offer its decision to domestic and foreign investors, but does not write the ratio. There is no provision under which the government had to make a 65-35 relationship. Let's say the government could decide that 99% of the shares were offered to domestic investors, and 1% were in line with the law and no one could object, no one could object to the government if it had broken the law. What is the consequence, that is, of making the market for securities in Croatia in the meantime? According to my data, 44 thousand 640 citizens of the Republic of Croatia made an offer and bought shares of INA totalling about a billion and a half kuna. Stocks with the right of the championship, but without special benefits, so that's more than $38,000, bought 774 citizens and paid 22 million and 400 for it. So in that first round, a billion 522 million shares were sold. Since the government has placed 2 billion and 800 on the market, this means that for further sale and by decision 65 foreigners and 35 domestic, foreign investors have gone... weighs 830 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the INA stock price from today's Zagreb Stock Exchange, it is today listed at 2 thousand 875 kuna. And the difference between the London and the Zagreb Stock Exchange has not been higher per share since 17 kuna. 17 kuna was the biggest difference. These foreign investors in INA stocks from that day to today have earned 581 million kuna. The difference, the increased value of these 491 thousand shares of INA, is now worth more than 581 million kuna. That's not a full six months. Four and a half, if I'm not mistaken. We said, "Let's give these shares, let's sell them to Croatian pension funds." According to data, with today's mandatory pension funds, the average annual capitalisation or contribution of those who pay pension contributions for the second pillar ranged between 7.5% and 8.8%. I'll repeat this information, you may be interested in paying the second pillar mandatory. The average annual capitalisation or annual contribution to your single kuna in compulsory pension insurance is the lowest 7.5 and the highest is 8.8%. In voluntary pension funds, the lowest is 5.8 and the highest is 15.3. Only one percent difference in capitalisation of the individual savings, only one percent difference in annual yields. For example, if your fund capitalizes 6% and someone else's 7%, at the salary of 4 thousand 200 kuna, the loss of that 1% is 12.5% on an annual level or 17 thousand kuna. And now I ask, how much would this average annual contribution of Croatian insurance in pension funds be higher, if this 580 million were earned by Croatian pension funds? To whom it was of interest and to whom it was in the interest that the Croatian Pension Funds should be directed by amending the law that was passed in this House 3 months ago, by amending the law and allowing them to do so. Risk investments abroad, referring to international markets by expanding and loosed fences that were before, while the Croatian state puts the most capital stock on the market, we do not give priority to Croatian pension funds. The reason we insist on the debate in this proposal is no longer an INA. She's gone. These 580 million kunas and taxes will be paid in some other countries. That profit, that profit, that profit will go somewhere else. Not in Croatia. Not in the Croatian Pension Funds. Not in those who are subject to the law must be provided in the second pillar, or those who think of their age also have voluntary pension investment and insurance. But what worries us and scares us is a decided statement repeated several times by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec, and the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. And I'll quote it, "By the same model and by the same principle, the government will continue to privatise HT and other state-owned companies that we will privatise with our decisions and laws." And now I'm asking. Was the INA lesson really not enough that we would make the same mistake in privatising other companies that belong not only to national wealth but also to national sovereignty? I wonder if we really don't care where half a billion or a billion kunas will end up with an increase in the value of shares that will arise at the moment of the price being determined that ten days after that they will be 40, 50 or 75% higher, but at the moment of market delivery? And what is this reason why we treat our pension funds differently from the way Member States of the European Union treat them? Why do these countries that have entered the European Union have such legal provisions and do so in order to national interests, and we do not want to do so when we are not bound by any European regulation and allow Croatian law? In this House, we often hear debates about the fate of the pensioners. This government has continued and ended its debt recovery, has promised the compensation of new pensioners. But here half a billion stands, and it was on a table that could have ended up in the pension system just like the ones we're discussing in the future. Or we don't see these pension funds as citizens' property. Who owns the pension funds? Peace insurance, citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The government said in its statement that it would accept, write forgive me, that accepting our proposal would be a violation of the law. How? The law says to domestic and foreign bidders. 1% foreign, 99% domestic. Is that a violation of the law? But we will also move our kicks to determine, by the same authority, the first decision to determine the amount of shares that go to the market, the terms of the offer, the price that the Government knows in advance that is underrated and ultimately cuts off 65% of the parties 35 domestic. And that parliament has no opportunity not only to discuss it, nor to react in time, and it is the most angry that this proposal was not allowed to be discussed when it was current. You can say we're politicizing. You can accuse us of running a political game. But the fate and future of the people we talk about who are in pension funds with this example to just 1% in the difference of capitalisation of personal savings in the pension fund. So 12.5% on an annual level of money difference is probably sufficient argument that you will allow us not to repeat this error in other companies, especially in the announced HT and it is announced. And so we can pretend that we heard nothing, saw nothing and knew nothing but then we will have a safe situation that in the ports of Croatian companies, institutions and funds will be boarded so that behind this fence and the gates are no longer spoken Croatian. The Croatian language comes out of Croatian companies and this way the rest of the INA will end up in foreign ownership. And the rest of the HT will end up in foreign ownership and then it will be HEP, then there will be Croatian railways, perhaps Croatian forests, waterways, sewers and we will give everything according to that same model. This is the reason and our arguments of insistence on debate and perseverance as a warning to try to convince the government that this model does not apply and that domestic pension funds must always take precedence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85586	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85587	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to correct Mr. Lesar's quote. I'll quote. He said "Governmental Vice-President Polancec wanted to discourage those interested in entering INA shares." You later commented on what to say as a comment, but this is what I heard you say. That's just not true. So that's the claim I want to make right. The only truth is that he did not want to make promises that no one could make or stand with something fixed at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85588	I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club respected representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85589	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club will not support the proposal for a conclusion to supplement the Decision on the way of sale, price, time and conditions of sale of the INA's proposed Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party. One thing that has already been said here is because of the time or moment that we are discussing, or because of the inaccuracy, and the other is for the formal reasons that have also been mentioned here. According to the 2002 Privatisation Act, the provisions on the public sale procedure say that at least 15% of the shares in the public offering procedure will be sold in accordance with the regulations governing the issue and transport of securities to the first Croatian citizens, with the right of the Championship with benefits and under the conditions that the Government will determine when INA is included in the official quotation. Second, domestic legal persons and foreign investors without the right of the championship and special benefits by selling through a public offering. Under the law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision in 2006 on the way of sale, price, time and conditions of sale of INA shares to public offerings and special benefits of sales to Croatian citizens. The provisions of the law clearly indicate that the right of the championship and the convenience of the purchase in public sales can be granted exclusively to Croatian citizens. It is also doubtless that pension funds are not Croatian citizens and their explicit mention in the decision on how to sell, price, time, conditions of sale of INA shares to public offerings and special benefits of selling to Croatian citizens would be contrary to the INA Privatisation Act. It's important to emphasize the following. The peace funds are allowed to participate in the purchase of shares of INA but without the right of the championship because this is not even foreseen by the 2002 INA Privatisation Act. Next, Croatian citizens are therefore allowed the right to buy shares worth up to 38,000 kuna and with special convenience in the form of one free share on ten purchased shares and kept, so not sold for the next 365 days. And that's in line with the INA Privatisation Act. Thus, in the course of the process, a fair law is being implemented and one of Croatia's best privatisation projects is being implemented. And because I said so, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will not support this proposal's conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85590	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85591	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, I am correcting the quote of my colleague Jelkovec who said: "It is certainly that the government could not give the pension funds the right to buy first with benefits.". That's not true. ... You said it was unequivocal. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's doubtful, that's what it's all about. There is a question because we have consulted legal professionals who claim that pension funds are owned by citizens of the Republic of Croatia and thus the government could put them in its decision. You claim it's unequivocal. I say it's questionable, that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85592	The club of representatives of the CNS respected representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85593	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. What happened happened. 600 million kunas, or rather, more than half a billion dollars, have allowed foreigners to earn both the worst and the hardest in the whole story that this has resulted from the Government's decision. That the government's decision sold the rest of the shares to 65% foreign and 35% domestic institutional investors. The fact is that this decision reads again the government's continuing attitude towards Croatian citizens. Again, the question is why the Government set a 65:35 ratio when at that point in the domestic capital market it was possible to sell 7 times as many shares as it was done. And if something had already been given to foreign investors, the government could certainly have offered half a percent or one percent or ten percent, in any case, to take care primarily of the protection, protection of domestic and national and domestic institutional investors. Normally, the question is why the shares did not end up in domestic pension funds while at the same time about 120,000 new pensioners with pensions below 1200 kuna cannot cover even the most basic cost of life. Furthermore, it is completely unclear what is the advantageous price of a 1690-year-old stock for Croatian citizens when shares were bought at the same price by foreign funds. On the other hand, it is known that INA had a study that showed that the real value of the stock moves between 2100 and 2200 kuna, while foreign institutional investors were sold at the price of 1690 kuna. All of this raises the question of why the government chosen by Croatian citizens and whose only job it is to protect the interests of these same citizens in this case has favoured the interests of foreign investors. If she did it out of ignorance, then the incompetence of this government is indescribable. And the government's work is about the fact that only 17% of Croatian citizens think it works well, but if anything, if anything has shown their creativity so far, then it's certainly the creation of an affair. This Government decision in the privatisation of INA has damaged and deceived Croatian citizens, especially current and future pensioners. We gave up another part of the governance of the energy system and weakened the Croatian financial market and thus economic growth and employment. And again, not to repeat myself, to repeat the words of my fellow Lesar, we speak all of this exclusively because of all that is coming, and the announcement was and I think it is time and time for the government to finally take care of its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85594	Thank you. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85595	So our proposal, our Club's conclusion on the completion of the Decision on the way of sale, price, time and conditions of sale of INA shares, is actually related to the fact that it happened at the end of last year when INA shares were sold to foreigners in 65% and domestic, on the domestic market only 35%. Our citizens are indirectly and directly damaged. Directly damaged by the fact that shares were sold only up to 38,000 kuna per, discount and under special benefits. They are practically affected by the fact that access and the possibility of buying shares is not secured by our pension funds. And even though that doesn't seem so significant, but it's important in the long run because instead of our pension funds getting engaged on those investments that are completely safe, and that they're safe to say the best thing today is that one share has jumped 75% of the 1690s to today's 2875 kuna. So investment in our shares, INA's shares in pension funds would allow the creation of additional capital and additional profits that would also be shed into what makes up the portfolio of the Peace Fund or pension of our pensioners. Unfortunately, this is how our pension funds refer to foreign investment. I can't tell if it's a risky, medium-risk or a little risky, but whenever you come into a bank, that's how they sort you out, that's what these risky investments are about. Unlike those who are safe here and here in front of us on the domestic market. I'm surprised, and I don't know who's in the best interest of it. So our proposal for a decision is specified by the way shares are sold as well as the right of the championship, as well as the special convenience for Croatian citizens. The Croatian People's Party is of the opinion that the 3rd point in question should explicitly mention pension funds in the Republic of Croatia and allow the same uninterrupted acquisition of shares of INA, the oil industry under the same conditions that apply to Croatian citizens. We are equally of the opinion that it is necessary to prescribe the right of the Croatian citizens and pension funds in the Republic of Croatia for the purchase of shares and after overselling 38 thousand kuna shares. I'd like to mention or refresh your knowledge of how the privatisation of the INA even ran? The first phase of privatisation of INA was completed on 10 November 2003. The Hungarian company "MOL" then acquired ownership of over 25% plus one of INA's shares. On 1 December 2006, the privatisation phase of the INA was completed in which the Republic of Croatia exposed the sale of 15% of the INA shares with an option of an additional 2% that was fully used. Croatian citizens took part in a public offer with the right of the championship in accordance with the government's decision of 1 December 2006. INA is listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange while global confirmations of deposited INA shares are included in the London Stock Exchange, and the rest is still owned by the Republic of Croatia. According to the government's decision of 12 October 2005, to which the Croatian Parliament agreed 7% of the INA shares held by the Republic of Croatia were transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund. Other shares are still owned by the Republic of Croatia. So that's how INA's privatisation was going. And what her future will look like is a big question. The current legal solutions from the decision on how to sell, price, time and conditions of the sale of INA shares show significant shortcomings which should not be tolerated, since it is one of the most successful Croatian companies, as well as a symbol of the Croatian oil industry. To begin with, the question arises why pension funds were ignored when decisions were taken to sell the INA stock. In fact, instead of selling shares mainly to foreigners because it is realistic that those who have capital to buy a larger number of shares could be given a championship just to pension funds. Such a policy would improve the position of funds in the sense that they would be able to earn on the assumption that the value of the shares is increasing. That profit could be put into the service of improving the standard of living for our pensioners. First of all, equalizing pensions for old and new pensioners. However, it is obvious that some pensioners only remember when they want to jump into Verona, enjoy the charms of a beautiful city, leave the bill to Croatian tax collectors, taxpayers to pay it, and then return to their homeland with great news for our pensioners, selling shares of one of the biggest prospective Croatian companies so that they can pay you back your pensions. Under such, under exactly what conditions and for whose exact benefit it is less important to all of you. If Pliva has paid the pensioners whether all our islands will be enough to restructure pension policy, equalise pensions, or we will have to change laws and allow the full sale of water sources instead of today's concessions. Who protects Croatian sovereignty? Is that HDZ and the local government? Why do we treat our pension funds differently and worse than the countries that have entered the European Union in the last few years? Whose interest is that? Who does this government work for? Does he work for himself or work for Croatian citizens, for Croatian people? If so far it has not been clear what I am aiming at is the government's clumper visible at every step of the negotiations with the European Union to the planning of economic policy. In fact, in the Republic of Croatia, there is no such plan at all. All decisions shall be made in the short term. On the one hand, one hole is patched up, to make new two holes on the other side. For this reason, I believe that the only smart decision is to supplement the already made decision on the sale of INA shares with special reference to pension funds in order to allow them to get INA's cake and thus stand on their own feet. It's time to solve the pensioner's problem once and for all, instead of making these people worse every day. Today's pensioners participated in the creation of INA, and because of them, it is what it is today, one of the largest oil companies. Isn't it fair that we fight back, so if we don't measure in half as much as we do? The peace funds should have the same conditions for obtaining INA shares as Croatian citizens in order to enlarge these funds. That's the essence of our proposal. On the other hand, it is precisely the right of the Croatian citizens to buy shares only to buy shares worth up to 38 thousand kuna. After that, the Croatian citizen loses the right to the championship, which we believe is not excessively desirable if we bear in mind that the shares of the INA are strategic interest not only in Croatia but also in its own citizens. All those in the government are drilling into their chests with... such as the full liberalisation of the market, let them read some of the basic economic literature, and they will learn that the full liberalisation of the market requires a prerequisite for establishing equal starting conditions on the market for all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the average Croatian citizen in the beginning is much poorer than the average foreign investor abolishing the right of the championship after 38 thousand kuna is not in line with Croatia's interests. Therefore, it would be desirable for Croatian citizens to be added to pension funds for reasons already explained and should be entitled to the INA Share Buying Championship regardless of the amount of shares purchased without, without, more than 38 000 without a discount. It's also a matter of working stock. Often there's talk of a variety of floscules, of working stock, because that sounds very good and smart. However, when there is a moment when such things need to be made more concrete, there are every excuse to prevent it. We have changed the Privatisation Act in order to allow for better implementation of working stock, but we still don't see any shift in that. Workers' stock does not always move, no mechanisms are present, tax breaks do not exist, and in this case there are no preferential prices. I can understand that this is about the fear of returning to the old age of self-management, the parole of the factory to the workers. But I can understand that that fear exists only in unprofessional people. Financial participation models are actually the models of the most developed countries in the world. And what I'd like to mention more. This proposal isn't really just about the INA story. This is a much wider story, and that is why we need to be extremely wise in regulating such sensitive issues. The model to be applied on INA will be applied later to T-HT and to who knows how many other trading companies or shareholders. For this very reason, we must ignore the particular interests of individuals and start to think about how to enable Croatia's general interest. We must not allow the shares of our companies to make profits exclusively to foreign investors, but today we need to make sure that at least part of that profit remains with our people and our pension funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85596	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85597	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I must say, in her inspired political and pre-election speech, colleague Alenka told a whole series of lies. This government took care of the pensioners both before going to Verona and after going to Verona. I'm sorry you're not going to Verona, there's a whole series of cultural events there, maybe we'd look a little differently together. Next, it's very ugly... That's right, you can get culture there too. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, onward, one very ugly word that this government takes care of itself. But why do you say that? Just because your government took care of itself, especially your ministry. And I don't understand how Mr. Bajic sleeps after everything we've delivered to him from the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85598	Thank you. My colleague Alenka, you signed up. Was that it? That's it now, isn't it? ... Then we have a final review. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He won't. And then we close the debate on this agenda point. Proposal for a conclusion to supplement the Decision on the way of sale, price, time and conditions of sale of shares of INA-Industry to public offering and special benefits, sales to Croatian citizens. The proposal is proposed by the HNS Representatives Club in accordance with the proposal of the home working body and the Government. I am voting on the following conclusion: This proposal for a conclusion is not accepted. What? We can vote. The result? With 69 for, 4 abstentions, 18 against accepted suggested conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85603	The esteemed president, here's just a few words. So it's about confirming the guarantee agreement to continue the Rijeka bypass on the St. Kuzma to Križišče, it is actually from Bakar to above the Krško Bridge. The total value of the job is 85 million 570 thousand and 340 euros, of which Croatian Roads own funds are 45 million 570 340, and 40 million euros is the EBRD loan. It is a four-way road and the deadline for completion is at the end of June 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85604	Thank you. The committees? Maritime, traffic and connections? The chairman of the board, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85605	Thank you very much. So the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament at the 63rd session held on 21 March 2007 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "Project of the Rijeka bypass", with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. No. 633, which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 21 February 2007. The Committee considered the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty as a working, interested working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee accepted the proposal to pass the law by emergency procedure. The opening statement was given by a representative of the applicant who pointed out that this law confirms the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Rijeka bypass project. The project consists of the construction of a final section of the eastern bypass of Rijeka between St. Kuzman and Crossroads including two connected roads. The value of the works is estimated at 85m euros, of which 40m euros is provided through the EBRD loan and the remaining amount will be financed from the Croatian Roads' own funds. Without discussion, the Committee decided to unanimously accept and allow the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on the Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for "The Rijeka Passage Project".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85606	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. A SDP club, a respected representative of Biserka Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85607	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Rijeka transport node which includes the roads D404 Brajdica Draga and D403 port of Zagreb coast of Škurinje is a key transport component of the overall economic development of Rijeka and Primorje-Gorski Kotar County at all levels, and thus a prerequisite for faster development of the national economic system. Defining the spatial plan of the Primorje-Gorski County as the only possible spatial traffic solution for further balanced development of Rijeka and the city of Rijeka in a high value coastal area in the centre of the county for the accommodation of state-class transport buildings of international interest. Its main segments are portally terminal in the jurisdiction of the Port of Rijeka, railway in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Railways and road in the jurisdiction of the Croatian highways, Croatian roads and highways Rijeka-Zagreb. Today we're talking about this last road segment. The development of the Croatian economy in general is directly related to the development of tourism. Croatia is one of the most attractive tourist destinations in Europe and tourism development is directly dependent on the development of the Croatian transport system and its inclusion in the Central European, Adriatic and Mediterranean transport systems and in this international highway corridor Budapest-Zagreb-Rijeka-Trst and Rijeka-Split-Dubrovnik-Podgorica-Skopje belong to the most important road corridors in Croatia. The centre of these two very important directions along the direction of Italy, Istria and Slovenia, which continues on the Adriatic road route towards the like and Dalmatia and cross-border towards Zagreb, Budapest and Vienna, takes place across the river road node, which is part of the road road route E65 Trieste-Rijeka-Split defined from Rupa to Žute Lokva and with its divisions in the direction of Trieste, Ljubljana, Zagreb and Split is part of the highway of wider international importance and forms part of the trans-European road network. To complete the transport node, it is necessary to build the St. Kuzam-Kristje, but first of all complete, i.e. the construction of the second strip of the Orehovica-Dirachia stock. On existing shares from Rupa to Križišće with belonging hubs and connecting roads at ports and other transport terminals of the state category, transit and remote traffic at regional level and urban and interurban transport, connections with the county center, or connections with tourist areas, shall be intertwined. This road has been built for 35 years, but until today, none of the mentioned traffic levels has been fully resolved and it does not take place in a satisfactory manner. There are delays during high-speed traffic, road speed is reduced and accidents are common. This has a significant impact on the quality of life of the local population and on the effects of the business of economic operators in particular the tourist economy. It is therefore necessary to complete the Rijeka-Zagreb highway at the same time as the Rijeka road node. Speaking on behalf of the SDP club, and as a representative who comes from Rijeka who is known from everyday life as a horror that happens very often on the Rijeka bypass, I must admit that I have honestly settled in the agenda of this session when I saw the point of reference to the Rijeka bypass project, brought with hope that the years-long agony of the people of Rijeka will finally be resolved during the traffic collapses during the daily days, and especially the summer tourist traffic spikes and asphyxiation of the city of vehicles associated with air pollution, noise, the inability of the normal flow of local traffic, in cases of accidents or diseases, i.e. the normal approach of the police and fire departments or emergency assistance. The people of Rijeka and still lively memory of last year's two cases of a multi-hour total traffic blockade in the very heart of the city as a consequence of traffic police reconnaissance following heavy traffic accidents are precisely on the Orehovica-Diracije stock, which is the only alternative for all traffic to be rerouted through the city's busiest city centre, which is normally burdened with traffic. The road, which averages 20 to 25 per day, is one of the busiest roads in Croatia in summer and 35,000 vehicles. Frequent traffic congestion in the City of Rijeka leads to frequent traffic accidents rarely and with a tragic outcome. It's obvious that the safety of people in traffic is quite low. That's why my enthusiasm was so much greater that I read the articles in the new list from last Monday on the completion of the Orehovica-Diracia stock exactly. But there was a disappointment when I saw that the bill refers to the eastern part of the bypass, which is also of exceptional importance, but by skipping the Orehovica-Diracia section with transit traffic, primarily the traffic of tourists during the season to even reach the St. Kuzam Križiste towards the Crikvenica-Vinodol Riviera continues towards Dalmatia, the question of the purpose of this stock is raised if the passengers must first spend several hours standing or caressing in the column before they reach Orehovica and St. Kuzm and only 15 minutes after entering our country from the west. The question is what kind of advertising is for our tourism, and can in such situations be held a picture of our country as one of Europe's most attractive tourist destinations? On the other hand, two more reasons for the necessary and urgent completion of the second line of the Orehovica-Dirachajje section lie in the fact that this stock represents a combination of a full-use section of the Rupa-Diracije highway on the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, i.e. on Dalmatin in Bosilivo for those passengers who, in the present conditions, want to avoid violence and use fast roads regardless of the 30km long road to Dalmatia and at the same time, the only road from Zagreb to Istria. That's what the next question is all about. What criteria did St. Kuzam Krizisce's shares get priority from the skipped share of Orehovica-Diracije, when the sequence from the west comes only as the fourth share in the series. At the frequency of traffic by comparison of these two shares, it could be said that St. Kuzam Križiste's shares without a full profile of Orehovica-Diracije's shares in the current situation are going nowhere. Absurd is so much bigger that in the final phase the construction of four overpasses is right on the Orehovica-Diracija stock, but editing and paveding the route between these overpasses is not even started, nor is it planned. Since built overpasses serve nothing, it is doubtful why this investment is worth 10 million kuna in the first place. These facilities could be used at least for construction needs to get access to the southern tunnel portal of Škurinj at the moment when the second pipe of the tunnel begins to build. However, no one knows when the Škurinje tunnel will be built because the Croatian roads for the missing Orehovica-Diracije section have no money, mostly because the plan for the construction of the Croatian roads from 2005 to 2008 provides for a total of only 90 million kunas, of which only 20 million are planned for this year instead of at least 4 times more money. There is no money, and the Government and Resort Ministry of Transport are not able to find a solution for example in the Zadar port of Gazenica. In spite of the fact that it is not foreseen in the programme of construction of the roads of Croatian roads in the state budget, about 400 million kuna were found to finance the construction of a fast four-way road of 17.6km which will connect Gaženica and Zadar 2 knot on the Zagreb-Split highway. The road will be completed this year, but since the current government of Rijeka and Zadar obviously do not have equal treatment, a far worse and slower solution will be offered for the Rijeka bypass. Will something change when and if there is a change of jurisdiction over the Croatian road stock on the Rijeka-Zagreb highway that has been discussed in the media on several occasions remains to be seen, but the problem existed yesterday, it exists today, and tomorrow it will be even bigger and there will be no time for administration, construction should start and end spotlessly because the situation does not suffer further delays. As early as April 2004, almost all of the most important road projects in the area of Rijeka and Primorje-Gorski County were to be implemented by the end of 2008. Among other things, it was confirmed that in the four-year construction programme from 2005 to 2008 Croatian roads and Croatian highways, construction of the Rijeka-Zuta Lokva highway, the construction of an additional transport lane from Diracija to Orehovica on the river bypass and the access road D403 that will connect the western terminal of the Rijeka port with the Škurinje node on the bypass, and that contracts and construction will soon be signed for the D404 road in the framework of the Rijeka port modernisation project of the Gejtway River will be signed before the tourist season. Meanwhile, a financing contract has been signed with the World Bank, the construction of the D404 road has begun and should be completed as planned by the end of this year. However, the start of the construction of the D403 road is not yet in sight, it is no longer in plans and construction programmes after that session. So, it turns out that, apart from the part relating to the D404 road, all the decisions of the Committee for Roads of April 2004 have been simply trampled or ignored, we can all ask ourselves, together, where is the credibility of this committee, this government and the Prime Minister himself who chaired the session. And in order to continue the construction of the highway towards Žutoj Lokva, Mr. Livakovic said on 30 November last year that he would quote: "With building permits he will be fully prepared for the next planning period.", finished quote. This would mean 2009-2012 On the other hand, just the day behind that debate during the debate on amendments to the state budget, Minister Shucker did not accept our amendment to complete the second line of the west river bypass of 8km long, so the Orehovica-Dirachaj shares with at least a strange explanation that it cannot be accepted because the money is being removed from other traffic routes to be invested in this one. I wonder if we should have reduced, for example, the items of health care or retirement in order for the amendment to be accepted. But joke aside. The completion of the entire system will ensure a rapid and quality state-level connection. The operation of the Rijeka city transport network will also grow and improve the quality of life in residential areas along roads that are now burdened by transit. As the city transport network is disbursed, the Adriatic highway will be unloaded and freed for local traffic, raising the quality of life in settlements. The SDP club, representing the the the thesis that the construction of transport infrastructure is a prerequisite for economic development, will support the construction of the final section of the eastern part of the Rijeka bypass with two connected roads, but with the repeated request of the citizens of Rijeka for the completion of the Orehovica-Diracije section in full profile of the highway, in order to make their daily life not easier, more quality and better, but simply normal because Rijeka and Rijeka deserve it. And by doing so, the St. Kuzam - Krizisce stock would have full meaning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85608	Thank you. Club IDS, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic Bukovac. She's gone. He's losing his word. HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85609	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs! The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Rijeka bypass project. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was established in May 1990. The youngest is a financial international institution. And the Republic of Croatia became '93. a full-fledged member of the EBRD. Since mid-1996. they have an open office in Zagreb. The total amount of loans so far granted in Croatia is 1.8 billion euros for a total of 77 projects. The Rijeka bypass project is certainly included in the projects of special importance. The European Bank has expressed its willingness to co-finance the Rijeka bypass project, which is also intended for the construction of the final stock, i.e. the easternmost section of the Rijeka bypass between St. Kuzm and Križišč, which is linked to the Orehovica-Dear-St. Kuzam section, including two combined roads, and to assist the borrower in road sector reform. The length of this stock is 8000 365m, and the total value of the works is estimated at 85.5m euros. The design of the project will be completed in June, and at the end of July Croatian roads plan to send tender documentation to the EBRD. The contract with the contractor plans to be signed by the end of November, and in the fourth quarter of this year, Croatia's roads plan to withdraw 3.5m euros, while the completion of the works is expected in 2009. During the latest review of projects funded by the EBRD in February of this year at the Ministry of Finance, good co-operation between the Croatian Roads and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has been stressed, and successful implementation of this project is expected. The construction of the Rijeka bypass is of exceptional importance for Rijeka, for the Primorje-Gorski County, but also for Croatia, given the traffic problems caused at this level, especially in the summer crowds in Rijeka. And therefore, of course, we rightly expect this project to be fully supported in order to begin its realisation as soon as possible. The construction of the Rijeka bypass is a continuation of regular completed and open shares from Orehovica to St. Kuzma, which has shown full justification for construction, since this significantly improved traffic in Rijeka, and enables easier access to the city centre and the roads which are insufficient for the needs of Rijeka. With this project, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also continues to invest in Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County, thus ensuring a balanced development of all counties in the Republic of Croatia. With projects such as the University Hospital, campus, building a full profile of Rijeka-Zagreb highway and many others, and this project of Rijeka bypass is just another project in a series of projects of this government to build infrastructure and improve the standards of citizens and the Primorje-Gorski County. Building therefore, Rijeka bypasses from St. Kuzm to Križišje will contribute in many ways to the quality of traffic in Rijeka and in the county. And we also believe that the continuation of the road from Križišće to Žuta Lokva will be built as soon as possible. For these reasons, of course, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will also support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85610	Thank you. HNS club, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85611	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Here, I'll be much shorter than my predecessors and I'd like to start by saying that for us at the HNS club is not the basic question that or not to confirm this contract? The answer is certainly yes. The basic question is why just now? That's the basic question. 2007. It's now the fourth section of that bypass. Before Rijeka and after Rijeka fills the profile, through Rijeka half a profile, which is practically a city road. Nothing's gonna happen, it's a tight plug. So the order of priorities is absolutely inappropriate. Not only does this apply to these four shares of that same bypass. This generally applies to all highways in Croatia. We never got clear criteria here in the Parliament why it's going in a certain order. Is this a traffic frequency, because this bypass in Croatia enters 2/3 of Croatian tourism, tourist traffic, 2/3. Also Rijeka-Zagreb. It's the breadth of Croatia. Economic and in every way. And now we're just finishing 1/3 and more than 1/3 of that highway. So, what were the priorities that the other shares went with a full profile, and we left this part as a tight plug, like a narrow passage? That's not good. It would be correct if we got those criteria. Is it the frequency of transport, is it economic or tourism interests, are they demographic interests, are they international interests? So international loans will be encouraged. No, then there's money if it's international interests, right. Are those political criteria? I respect them too. They can exist. But it seems to me that they are most often priority in us and that we treat them to get a voter on one occasion or on one occasion without actually doing anything by the logic of the profession. That at the beginning of the term of office of this government, we got a list of orders, a list of priorities, a list of criteria. No one would ask a question today. No one would likely argue today. We'd have clear criteria, we'd know which stock when we did, which we'd finance, and everything would be settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85612	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary Zdravko Livaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85613	Here, I'll try to be brief. I'd like to speak to the Honorable Representative of Pearly Perman. Most of the questions raised, or the thesis raised, should be referred to another government rather than to this government. I think this government should be commended for investing in Rijeka's agglomeration. And now I'm going to read the exact data, so please know what is invested in the river aglomeration although it is ugly to speak Rijeka, Zadar, Split, Osijek. It's all Croatian cities. The Rijeka transport node is very awkward, on a very difficult ground and the real question would be why ten, twenty or more years ago it got rid of it and we weren't all driving there, I'm from Zadar so when I went to the river or Italy I was struggling and we all know what the Bay of Bakar looks like. And this section that we're talking about today is currently being solved by a catastrophic plug that's happening on that part. This year, i.e. last year, a move was made from Orehovica to Bakar i.e. St. Kuzma and Draga knot, which will be connected through D404 by the end of this year to Rijeka Luka. But here's what I'm gonna say. The Rijeka-Zagreb highway from this government is a full profile of 2 billion 325 million kuna. I admit, it's not just for Rijeka, it's Zagreb, but 2 billion 325 million kuna, and it's been kept saying that this project will not be realised but it's being realized, thank God you're traveling to Rijeka, so see how much operating machines are there. And one share will be open this year. Croatian highways realized Rupa and Urdani 9 kilometers 422 million kuna, a four-way road, full profile under charge. Croatian road 964 million kuna in 2005 311, 2006. 223. It's 534 is in those two years and this rest through this and next year 2008. Why is the southern strip passing through the River of Oreshovica, or from Diracja to Orehovica not finished? Because the state of preparation of the project documentation was not such that we could realize it. What can and will be realized will be realised as quickly as possible and the idea has come from this government to extend the concession area of Rijeka-Zagreb highway to the river pass to be free of charge as it is around Zagreb, and that the stock from Rupa to the Slovenian border is also inserted into the concession area of the Rijeka highway, that the potential of the Rijeka-Zagreb financial highway is beyond the state deficit to use the maximum acceleration of this project. When all of this is summed up, it's in the fifth, eighth, 3 billion, 782 million kuna. Therefore, these are very large amounts. And as far as the comparison with Zadar is concerned, it's not true that 400 million kuna is the project, but 446. ... That's it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. I'm sorry, then. 446 is an exact figure, I am accidentally from Zadar, so Minister Calmeta is from Zadar, so he probably wants to make a special effort to potentiate the project. Citing my statement that up to the building licenses for the highway to Yellow Lock, it's true. We'll have building permits by 2008. Whether they enter or not, the next plan will be made by a government that will decide at that time. And why D403 is not in realisation or project... This morning, I was talking to my colleague Linic about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's... The catastrophicly prepared project and problems with the foundation of the Brajdica port are huge and the government will have to invest additional funds, regardless of the warning by the River of the project and the consultants of the Japanese have gone to a system of foundations that is inappropriate and I fear that the state of Croatia will have to pay for the penalties for why Kaim's company stands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because very bad preparation was made. Here, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85614	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85615	Well, at the very beginning of his presentation, Mr. Livakovic said that this stock solves the catastrophic plug that happens on the Rijeka bypass. It's simply not true, because in order to get to that stock at all, I repeat, first we need to pass the section of the Orehovica-Dražje and right on it are creating plugs and not on the Cross-Holy Kuzam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85616	And the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85617	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not true, Mr. Lovakovic, that I have made an observation about any investment or in Rijeka, anywhere in Croatia. My observation and my club was that there are no adequate criteria based on which the priority of road construction is determined. That was our remark, not to complain about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-03-21-0.u85618	But my colleague Doric, Secretary Livakovic, didn't mention you at all. I'm closing the debate. We'll continue tomorrow's session with the proposal for a law on the information security system that was scheduled for today and we'll do it for tomorrow. And after that with point 8 and further to the agenda. Final proposal of the Law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Rijeka bypass projects. Please vote. The result? With 93 votes in favour and 2 abstentions passed the final bill.
