ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83555	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Republic of Croatia is a democratic state in which all system institutions operate in their legal powers. That is my thought, but this is what I quoted the European Union report as a positive membership avis. And so it must remain and it is good and it should be repeated over and over again despite all those who would like to defile our institutions of the system and our democracy and try to push the Republic of Croatia outside the circle of democratic countries. But we must also make efforts to develop our democracy, to raise the election processes to an even higher level. We therefore had the strength, ladies and gentlemen, and in this field, to launch reforms, although the election year, the final year, is the last year of office in this assembly. We are, we have reform capacity and we are ready to open the list of voters. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is a sanctity for us and I must once again reject allegations that were heard yesterday that the government is violating the Constitution. The government has strict respect for the Constitution. Election law in the Republic of Croatia has all Croatian citizens from 18 years of age. For the selection of members of the representative bodies of the local self-government units and units of the regional self-government, it is also important that the local self-government unit stay in the Republic of Croatia, but the Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure that the right to vote on the day of elections for the election of the President of the Republic and the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament is established outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia so that they can exercise that constitutional right. In order to make the elections better, it is necessary to keep a record of the voters, and this seems to be the Law on Lists of Voters. The government proposed a law on voters' lists in two readings, following a thorough debate. Before that, we organized a round table together with the OSCE mission in the Republic of Croatia, together with associations dealing with the study and monitoring of election processes. The round table was attended by international experts, all local political audiences were invited, and the round table was opened and attended by the highest representatives of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, and even the judges of the Constitutional Court. The current current composition of the State Election Commission and future composition, namely the proposed candidates for the National Election Commission, and we discussed this matter thoroughly. All the elections held in the Republic of Croatia were legal, all the authorities elected in these elections were legal and the list of voters was not an obstacle to expressing the proper will of Croatian citizens, Croatian voters when they elected their top representatives. On several occasions, however, he tried to impute that voters' lists were missing. They were comparing themselves with the number of voters with the number of inhabitants, trying to impose the thesis that something with the voters' lists was wrong. And she was trying to caricate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we all know and you all know that precisely in order to exercise the rights of Croatian citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia there is a central state record that contains 400 thousand Croatian citizens who have residence outside the Republic of Croatia, and that is the main reason why it does not collate the census of those people found in the territory of the Republic of Croatia with a list of voters. Because the list of voters is run differently from the census and that 400 thousand, at least 400 thousand were not found in Croatia in the census because they do not live here and therefore this difference has arisen. There are a few other reasons why it's different, it can't compare those two records. One is that there are thousands and thousands of Croatian citizens who have a formal residence in the Republic of Croatia, who are listed in the list of voters in the Republic of Croatia, but were not listed in the census because they have been living abroad longer, longer, longer, but for patriotic reasons, for reasons of belonging to the Republic of Croatia left their residence in the Republic of Croatia because they obviously do not intend to come back here or their descendants to live in the Republic of Croatia as we support them. Unfortunately, and due to the war circumstances, all persons who have escaped from the Republic of Croatia have not returned, so they are listed as voters but have not been found and have not been registered under the census. There is also, unfortunately, one fact that we are all aware of and the government is especially taking steps to correct it, which is that our population is getting older. It has 2 elements, one unhappy or element that we're not satisfied with, which is that fewer children are born. The second element we must be satisfied with is that the quality of life in Croatia is getting better, health care is getting better and our citizens are living longer and longer so that we have categories of voters from the 90s up and up every year and each election will be more and more. In the past presidential elections, some abuses of electoral rights have emerged that someone has been negligent or ignorant or irresponsible, and perhaps evil has voted in the name of dead persons and is mocked that in Croatia the dead have not voted, of course the dead have not voted, that we want peace, their soul and I here publicly condemn all those who participated in electoral fraud and I call on the bodies of prosecution to, in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia in order to prevent the punishment of those who dared to do so in general. As much as we try to adapt, make lists of voters perfectly accurate we will never be able to do so on, because from the day of the voter list to the day of elections, unfortunately, they will die between a thousand or a thousand and 200 people and will always be found in the voters' lists when the voters' lists have been concluded, but they will die within the period until the election day and if they repeat their intention to use electoral rights on behalf of those people we will insist that such phenomena are severely punished. But you should look at things the way they are. Realizing things are much, much better than trying to impose it. In the Republic of Croatia, on the day of elections in the election process in the polling stations, the election board president, his deputies, who are members of the electoral committees, are involved by 36,000 people. They are honorable people, they are people who are responsible for their work and I must say that we are so far away in the quality of the electoral process that the international community no longer sends observers. This is another proof that we are a democratic country, that we know how to conduct elections, that we know how to choose the authorities that will be the bearer on behalf of the people of sovereignty and manage this country. After the first reading, we have observed a number of remarks, we have prescribed the obligation to submit notices of voter entry, although we believe that we have gone so far as technology since the last three years of the last elections, the number of computers in Croatia has increased enormously, the number of cell phones is such as to exceed the number of inhabitants, we ourselves know how many text messages for Christmas and New Year are exchanged in Croatia, which is why we are among world recordmakers and we have a system that can be used through both the website and SMS messages, and this project has been run for the United Nations Innovation Award because the world is watching us, and we know what we are doing, and some of our moves are being evaluated very good so that we are on behalf of the HR-HITRO project and the SMS project messages to check the voter lists of candidates and enter into a narrow selection for the United Nations award. We have also regulated the situation of our young voters who, on the day of the voter's census, have not turned 18 and have not acquired electoral rights, but will get it from conclusion to election day, so we have a standard by which these voters will also be in the voter's list. We've corrected both nomotechnical and stylish formulations, every time it writes the text of the law, when it shapes the political will into legal norm it has its own style and perhaps grammatical figures, but we insisted on it, we accepted what was suggested, because our goal is to bring this law with as many votes as possible. I spoke with as much consensus as possible in one presentation as possible, and of course the consensus is either consensus or not, but it doesn't matter when the majority supports the adoption of this law. We think this is a step forward, that's on... This issue must not stop, that this is one tool for us to especially help resolve the issue of voter records found abroad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Law cannot solve all problems and is not the goal, but it is certainly a step forward and I suggest that the Croatian Parliament supports it when we decide on amendments then we will be able to make a statement on the proposals submitted in the form of amendments. Here are the ladies and gentlemen of the council, so much intro. If it's necessary, I'll get involved in the debate, but I'll finally look back at everything that's said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83556	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, president of the Committee, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83557	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 75th session held on 8 February 2007 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Lists of Voters submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament on 6 February 2007. The Committee discussed the final draft law on the basis of the competences set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the solution from the final draft law. The debate notes that enrollment in the voters list is not a condition for the exercise of voting rights, that the contents of the voter list cannot contain the obligation of citizens to declare their nationality but is their right as well as that it is necessary to reconsider the provision under which each city or municipal council is established by the Committee for the List of Voters who can supervise the legality. With me expanding here. It has been questioned at all whether it is necessary for municipal and city committees to conclude voter lists. In this connection, the Committee proposes that the Proposer reconsider these remarks once more before the adoption of the law. After the debate, the Committee is unanimous with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on lists of voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83558	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83559	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It's about one of the key laws in this set, election laws. Not first in a row, though. The first is the Law of Citizenship that we have as such. Some improvements have been suggested recently. They're not accepted. But the law exists and relatively well works. The second is the Law on residence and residence which was in the procedure in this Parliament and has been withdrawn from the procedure. He's stuck somewhere, and he's not coming back. We know for what reason. They shouldn't be repeated here. It's not a subject. But he is also one of the key laws so that a complete process of political elections in the state could be conducted correctly to the satisfaction of all interested and equal for all those participating in the elections. But this time we're talking about a list of voters as actually a measure of things in the whole election process. It is about the list of entities, entities 4 million or how many already there are entities who decide on the political life of Croatia and who are also the ones who decide and the ones that are elected in the election procedures. As a result, it is essential that the list be kept on the one hand up-to-date, on the other hand credible and, on the third hand, as accurate as possible. We are, the Croatian People's Party has proposed on two occasions the Law on the List of Voters as a system of recording, collecting voter databases in the Republic of Croatia. Both times the bill was rejected, although many solutions were more detailed in it than in this proposal. Well, let's. Part of the views, the most important part of the views on the formation of the voter list, the conclusion of the voter list is in line with the proposal put forward by the HNS in the procedure. One thing doesn't match and we consider it crucial not only for the credibility of the list of voters but also for the credibility of the policy functioning in the Republic of Croatia, which is the public of the data. Namely, everywhere in what we call a civilized world, and even outside it, the participants of the electoral procedure have the right to, therefore, get a list of voters, the list of those they address, the integral database that tells them how to access the electoral body and which ultimately enables them to control the whole process. On the round table Mr. Palaric mentioned it was said by OSCE experts, a man who is currently in the control of elections and travels around the world and is doing so, according to the local elections, the word is, according to local elections in Croatia, there are about 405,000 more people on the list of voters than there really is. According to his assessment, that's 900 grand. Let's just say his assessment was exaggerated, that man didn't see all the aspects, that he didn't do a pretty good analysis. But let's stay at this first number of 405,000. It is already a perfectly sufficient reason for the list of voters as a database to be available to everyone equally at any moment after the election is called in order for political parties, independent candidates for designated places that are chosen or independent lists to be able to be oriented and to see if this is really a situation, is it possible to check, is there anything else behind that? In an explanation of the refusal of that attitude that we gave in the first reading of this law, it was said that it was personal data protected by the Data Protection Act and that it was impossible for political parties, independent lists or candidates to obtain such data. We can agree that it is impossible under this law and unnecessary that political parties and other participants of the election come up with data that are considered personal data and permanent data, i.e. a unique home number of citizens, possibly nationality and I do not know what other data. However, the information contained in the phone book i.e. Name, last name and address, I don't see what they're personal and what they're secret to. In particular, given the fact that electoral committees receive such data with excluded data which cannot be made available to the public on the day of their election. The explanation was also that it was a huge booklet. Who will print that booklet for each of the participants of the election, especially when it comes to presidential or parliamentary elections. However, this argument does not, of course, stand technologically. The CD can, can also be burned to share the participants of the election. On the same round table, the OSCE expert told us that he encountered only two countries in his own routes, where voters' lists were thus reduced to data that could not be made available to participants in the elections. It was a trap... It's Burke's faso. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in those two places, the OSCE as an observer illegally fried the CDs and shared them with the participants of the election. Let's not make this happen in Croatia. That some foreign organization, some kind of someone, some hacker is breaking into a database, illegally burning it, and now under the bench, it's sharing it with the participants of the election. It is completely unnecessary to make it perfectly clear and simply one press on one, on one button on the computer can be excluded from those columns of data that should not be available to political parties. The Croatian People's Party accepts this Act is conditional upon the adoption of the amendments we have made on this issue. So if the amendment is not accepted we will be forced to vote against this law despite the improvements that have taken place in it. And we think that's the missing essence. Perhaps a few more words about some details in the very law that seems to me might be better. I can stay as they are. Nothing terrible will happen, but to the proponent of knowledge and possibly, possibly correcting the amendments to the government. Article 4 mentions the city of Zagreb as a place where data is collected to produce a list of voters of those of the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. In our proposal, we suggested that the State Election Commission do so, so one central state body, not the body of one city. The explanation was that it was a business of the whole state and of course these people, most of them had nothing to do with Zagreb. We saw no reason why, why it should be the ingenuity of the city of Zagreb. In Article 7, the contents of the list of voters shall include information between themselves and national data. Demonstrating national belongings to the Croatian Constitution is not an obligation. It is the right of Croatian citizens. A Croatian citizen can be made a national declaration but does not have to. We do not think that it is necessary and that it is not correct in the law to establish the obligation that the Constitution defines as law. Article 8 refers to the time limits within which the competent authorities, such as the police or the home office or the court, need information to be provided to the body which makes up the list of voters. The deadline is now. I think it would be more correct and meaningful and more precise to define it. 24 hours, 2 days, I don't know how. To define time because it can be interpreted at once anyway. Well, I'll be right there. I don't have time for tomorrow. But I'll do it right now. The word right now is simply not enough, precise enough. Article 11 discusses the termination of Croatian citizenship. This term does not work in legal practice or in the Law on Citizenship. There is an erasure from Croatian citizenship, an exit from Croatian citizenship, not an end. So maybe it should be replaced by a more appropriate term. Article 15 of the last paragraph states that the previous registration of voters is carried out by the competent authority leading the list of voters in its place of residence in the Republic of Croatia. What if there is no stay in the Republic of Croatia? And some don't. So it should be rephrase in some way to cover all possible situations. And another thing that's amazing and I don't know what he's saying. I wouldn't want to reconsider what he's saying. But this law is one of the few that has carrots, no beatings. There are no criminal provisions in the law. What if someone breaks the provisions of this law? Nothing to anyone. If we're going to respect it well. If we're not gonna respect and my God, I guess it's fine again. I think that set is missing in law and that it should be an integral part of the law. All in all, assuming that the amendment on the public or the availability of information to election participants will be accepted by the Croatian People's Party will support this law unless the amendment passes I'm afraid we won't be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83560	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83561	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Vuljanic's incorrect allegations about the public of the data. That's incorrect. The most important factor in keeping voters' lists accurate and up-to-date. Also, the public data cannot, the principle of public data must bear in mind the principle of privacy and the principle of protection of personal data. Therefore, neither in the phone book nor anywhere else or outside you can use any data unless a citizen agrees to that part. It's the same for you in countries where you say you can get a CD, but you have to get the consent of anyone who's on that list if he wants to, whether he wants his personal data to be available. Therefore, do not mix pears and apples with the public. We must respect the principle of privacy and the principle of protection of personal data, not what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83562	State Secretary Antun Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83563	Mr. President, Mr. Representative. We have opened the issue of protection of personal data to discuss. We also asked the commission, the Personal Data Protection Agency, to give you an opinion, but there are values that may come into conflict with each other. So public interest, the interest of participants in the political process to know who voters and the protection of personal data in one part come into conflict. We will resolve this conflict in a way that we will accept your amendment, but only the name, last name and address. Nothing but a single birth number, no nationality, no sex, so you guess from the name who it is. I warn that Peter Petrovic's father, Petar Petrovic's son and Petar Petrovic's grandson who live in the same house can happen in Croatia, is he. I said, the name is made up, or Marko Markovic. But we have no intention of hiding anything from anyone, nor does the existing model allow it to hide, because it is assured by the commissions that are drawn up in Varazdin in one way, in Rijeka in another way, in Split in a third way. So we're not in control, they're in control down there. But we won't insist on it. We want to keep our privacy. But we will accept in this part of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83564	Thank you. Club representative of HDZ, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83565	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Last week we had this law in our first reading, today we already have it in our second reading. So in a week, he didn't experience any major and significant changes. But yet he's in a nomotechnical sense quite in makeup and the text is significantly better than he was. Lists of voters are during all these years and during the numerous elections we have had for both Parliament representatives and local self-government and the election for president over all these years these lists of voters are still quite up-to-date. I have to tell you that I remember even those first choices in '90. the years when the whole streets weren't actually listed by voters, when there were really people who died a long time ago, and they were still on the lists. All these years, however, the technique has, of course, gone forward, electronics, computers, and certainly more up-to-date, the quality of the work of our state bodies that keep certain state and official records and lists on which the list of voters is based. So we still have a very correct list of voters today. And if we look at these latest elections that have been passed, except for some minor incident situations, the elections have passed very correctly and significantly and seriously, neither by domestic nor by the international public. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the Final Proposal for a Law on Lists of Voters. He has all the necessary elements that the law should have. He makes it very important for our citizens to vote, to exercise their right to vote and on the day of elections when they will not be found, when they will not be in their place of residence. This is provided through three instruments. It is by temporary enrolment to, in the list of voters of the city or municipality where he will be found at the moment of his vote, by prior registration, if he will find himself abroad, so by prior registration in the diplomatic-consular office of our representativeship. And as the last, last, last really instrument it is a confirmation if they are not listed in the list of voters and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have a particular document. On the very day of the election, they will be able to exercise their electoral right with that confirmation. So the law really makes it possible for all those who have the right to vote to do so. I must also say this about the objection of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. It shall have Article 2(2), which states that enrollment in the list of voters is a condition for the exercise of voting rights on the day of the election. We've discussed this a lot on the board, and I think we should really think about that definition. Because I fully agree with counterpart Arlovic, who very, very correctly explained that enrolment cannot be a restriction and cannot be a condition for the constitutional right to vote. Because at the end of the day, these people who have certificates and who will be entitled to the foundation of the certificate, they will not be entitled to vote by enlisting in the list of voters but by the basis of the certificate. It is, but I think it is more about a formal remark than an observation that can in practice cause some significant incident and difficult situations. What seems most important to me to have an even better, even better and more up-to-date list of voters is that all the state bodies involved in this process are making everyone do their job on an up-to-date and correct basis. So from the police to be delivered to the competent authorities to keep a list of voters data on persons who turned 18, about persons who changed their residence from one place to the next, then the parent offices that provided data on the deceased, also to update themselves on the basis of it, and it may seem to me that, in that segment that may be the most concerned, but also not significant in relation to the total number, which is actually our courts that when they decide to take away someone's business ability. I think it's got to be done with the same spottically to record it in our voter lists. As far as the comments from the CNS colleagues have been made, I think it is also necessary to discuss it, and I also have to admit that I see nothing in the fact that the information is provided to non-classified participants, who are not personal, but simply that today electronics really allows us to print names, names, names, without those data that might actually be and are treated by the law as personal. Maybe this question wasn't specifically addressed to this agency that gave one answer, so maybe until the vote, we should discuss it. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law and I think that these elections will be held correctly as they have all been. And the biggest guarantees for that are I have to tell us this whole infrastructure that's been built in these 15, 16 years. It's 36,000 people who work on election committees, who are educated, who have already spent a whole series of these choices. These are people in election committees by cities, municipalities, counties that have also worked for many years and have been very educated and the whole practice we have so far had such that there have been no significant objections to our elections, even in the first 90 years. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83566	Thank you very much. The SDP club, a respected representative, vice president of the House, Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83567	Mr. President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. You know when this law is read in the first and then in the second reading, regardless of what goes through the relatively accelerated procedure from week to week, then at first glance it seems like there are no major changes in this law compared to the applicable law. However, there are many changes to be asked, and in this respect we will certainly make several remarks. Secondly, there are some things that are happening in our reality that are actually still insufficiently taken into account, and this law did not give appropriate legal instruments to resolve this more quickly on the one hand, and on the other hand did not prescribe not only a procedure as to how the possible liability process is determined but also criminal provisions if such issues are not corrected. And third, it is good that the proposaler's representative announced that he would accept a proposal from the HNS's amendment that allows participants in the elections to obtain a copy of the voter's list for their own orientation. The position of the agency itself which has been delivered as an opinion is also questionable that this could not and should not be given and that, in this regard, it has so far supported the applicant's representative. Why? Well, this is the law of a colleague. This is the law. And the Constitution makes it clear that, among other things, personal data can be used either on the basis of the individual consent of the subjects or if it is established by law under the terms and conditions of the law. Therefore, there is no doubt that this law is possible to prescribe these conditions and now there remains an additional question, we are now announcing that we will give copies of voters who will not have certain data but only the name, last name, address, yes, and these are the additional conditions that they do not have in this law now. And I personally think that this is why the proposer should go with his amendment to further specify and regulate this issue and to get better quality solutions. Another problem that arises and is expressed among other things at the Croatian Parliament's working bodies is the question of people with multiple identities even say representatives of the MUP three to four. The person who has two home numbers says again the representatives of the MUP, who, though, announce that this will be resolved but at the same time, it is the fact that Croatia has been in the democratic system for 15-16 years, that it has had several choices and that this issue has not been resolved and that this is actually given in an indirect manner of recognition that it was possible for one person to vote on our actions on a number of grounds. Why am I stressing this question in particular? We stress, among other things, because of Article 4(3), where it is said in the bill that voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia are enrolled in the central register of voters in the City of Zagreb by countries where they have registered residence abroad. We ask the question why not in countries where they have a registered residence, not a residence. What's the problem? The problem is that many of our people with dual citizenship actually have a certain residence in several countries, they do not always have a residence in one country, and they can have their residence in several countries and for several reasons can be included in the list of voters and from there is the suspicion of the OSCE, one of the reasons why the OSCE's suspicions and some other international organisations, that in Croatia they appear in the lists of voters and voters in elections between 300 and 900 voters more than they could objectively have. What's true is I don't know, I don't know, I wouldn't confirm it, but in any case this kind of doubt exists and this possibility exists. After all, I know cases and individual cases where individuals had two or three citizenships, and of course they could come from that title on several occasions to be published, listed in the list of voters from the title of residence, not in multiple books in those countries where they are located. Our third remark is of course constitutional law, and already colleague Bošnjakovic, president of the Constitution Committee, has shown it on behalf of his club, which is Article 2(2). About enrollment in the voters list is a condition, not a condition, for the exercise of voting rights. The right to vote is guaranteed by the Constitution as an active and passive electoral right and whether or not the form of enrolment itself, but is access to the polling post as the right to vote. According to my deep conviction and conviction of our club here, it should be written that before joining the rights, voting or voting rights, the voter must go to the list of voters. Of course, here especially when this article 4 is about residence, we need to open an additional issue, and it is about Article 8. The first paragraph of Article 4(5) and Article 8 of this Regulation are calculated from the assumption that they should actually give the right to vote to those persons who have dual citizenship on the basis of issued travel documents indicating an international address and country of residence. We would especially like to point out that there are persons who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have the travel document of the Republic of Croatia and in this respect we are asking why not the housekeeper. And among other things, she writes where she lives, and that's the problem. So it's not an accident. It may not be an accident, it may be a failure, but it is not an accident, and that is why we warn that the issue should be resolved. Furthermore, we believe that Article 6 should indicate that a list of voters in official lists and records is also being conducted in addition to the electronic list of voters. They would now like to focus in particular on the issue of national membership, which is in Article 7. Moreover, not only is Article 7 also indicated in a certain way. The first thing they would like to point out is that, in accordance with the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on National Minorities, there is no obligation on citizens, nor can it be prescribed that citizens must demonstrate their nationality. The right to national commitment and the nationality of each citizen is that he determines it himself and in this respect he can, if he wants and does not have to present his personal data. And it cannot be prescribed by this law for a simple reason, such personal data is protected by constitutional law. So a citizen can plead and not have to. In this respect, not only is it interesting that Article 7 provides for an obligation under point 3 of paragraph 1 to prescribe national membership in the register. This means that every citizen must show his nationality and we will practically get among other voters will be, among other things, a record of the nationalities of the Republic of Croatia which is unacceptable. But now something's happened that's quite interesting. That Article 9 introduces a new manipulation, in line with this view, of the motionors referred to in Article 7 that nationality must be entered, and this is the way it reads. If the records on which the list of voters is based do not contain data on nationality, that information shall be entered, it shall not be recorded on the basis of the voter’s statement to the competent authority. It was before it could be in the first reading of the Law that the one in the temporary, enrolling and pleading could show nationality, that it did not have to, it now writes. So he'll have to testify. This kind of pressure on citizens to be national classed is not good. He is contrary to constitutional law, he is contrary to the Constitution. What must be established in the law must be the possibility of citizens, if they wish, to provide their personal data. Among other things, because he intends to exercise his electoral right by voting for representatives of national minorities. And that's what this law should specify precisely and clearly. This type of manipulation or this kind of manipulation in prescribing mandatory personal statement is simply inadmissible. 7. our observations are related to Article 13. It is said, among other things, in paragraph 1. each citizen has the right to review his entry in the list of voters. Seeking his supplement, etc., etc. Now, is it possible to view only one entry, one indent containing your name and data, your personal data without having insight and a few more? Here the question arises, on the basis of which and whether the Data Protection Act will be applied under which a person who is permitted to see personal data and other persons must sign a declaration that he is familiar with these data, must make an obligation to actually keep those data in accordance with the Data Protection Act. See, that's not settled here. Here, according to this law, it would practically be put outside the scope of that law, and in such a situation it is possible to abuse that insight into that data. Of course, we have certainly a whole series of other remarks. Let us now point first some that are far more important to us than we will, and that remaining time will be left for those less important, which would be the most important. The most important, one of the most important remarks is that we call this 9th, and it could have been 1st, is the question about so-called. Confirming the list of electoral lists. In this regard, a very interesting solution is provided for in which part of the administrative procedure would be carried out by representatives of the representative bodies of the local self-government unit, which do not have administrative powers, i.e. not the state authorities of the administration. At the same time, the job of enrolling voters is performed by the state body of the administration and there is something going on in that segment that is amazing. In fact, a body that has self-adjusted the legality and regularity of the state body and which oversees the legality of the work of the state body, which is actually a structure that is a little bit and inherited and which could not possibly function according to our deep conviction. That's number one. Number two. Article 34 further provides that this body, therefore, states on its own self-government, if the Commission finds that the list of voters is not properly drawn up, that means that it controls the law, whether the law is respected in the correctness of the censusing can bring it back to the state body and ask for further repair. So the question is, what exactly is this body doing? It carries out a clean review of the legality, and it has no state authority. That is, if any doubt can, in particular, be determined in Article 35, that, inter alia, if the voter list committee adopts a solution and I do not know, on the list, within 3 days of the date of receipt of the request, the decision shall be submitted to the applicant. Now, an appeal may be made to the competent municipal court within 2 days of the delivery date. Now look at the wonders, the first commission if it returns material to the state administration it actually controls the legality of the work of the state administration instead of vice versa. The state administration controls the legality of the work of the self-government body. Secondly, if you complain to the commission, it makes a solution and now you can also hold a court dispute with a regular court on the basis of the administrative procedure previously carried out. This kind of structure I haven't actually seen in our case-law yet, and I think this, if we want to, no matter what the extraparate procedure is, would have to be done by the administrative court because this is a solution to the administrative act. Because it would be about protecting the administrative, constitutional rights of the voters. For that reason, we believe that this structure would not be good, it would not be good, and we would have to introduce two degrees. And double-rateness can be introduced, but it is very simple to introduce that, in fact, after the list of voters, the control of the legality of the voter enrollment in the voter lists who would have to do it. And that state body that we established by special law, it's the State Election Commission that needs of course... a list at national level of the National Election Commission, and an Electoral Commission which will appoint it, i.e. set up in accordance with the law at other levels of the elections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we have two degrees where we can actually complain to the State Election Commission if there is something wrong with that part, and if our right is uninjured and after what we believe the State Election Commission has not protected our right then we must have a judicial dispute in which the right to appeal must be ensured, in accordance with the Constitution, because it is constitutional rights. That's why we think this whole chapter needs to be done further. It is very serious remarks, and we do not think that we could vote for this law today until these remarks are corrected because they open up a whole series, in fact, problems with the protection of voting rights from the title of the census and its implementation and, of course, about the realisation of certain fundamental constitutional rights such as the issue of national membership, such as the voter's right to vote, choose and be elected. And as a question of residence and residence relations, which is extremely important in order to avoid abuse of actually possible voter lists. Thank you very much. For now, we will remain abstentions over the vote of this law until the law is corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83568	What about the amendments, Mato? The amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83569	Mr. President, we would very much like to make amendments and fix this bill, but we must say that we, as you know, have just discussed yesterday on the Committee on the Constitution, came to debate in the Parliament today, it is inconclusive. If the vote is left until the end of next week and extends the deadline, let's say that the amendments can be delivered by 2 o'clock on Monday or I don't know by Tuesday morning we can sit down, fix and prepare the amendments to resolve this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83570	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go. Correction of an incorrect quote is first.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83571	So, Mr. President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of counterpart Arlovic, who says, indicates that there have been failures regarding the up-to-date and correct conduct of the list of voters related to Croatian citizens who do not have residence in Croatia, i.e. they have more residences, but this cannot be a legal reason for reviving Article 45. The constitution which states that all Croatian citizens must be given the right to vote in a manner determined by law. Therefore, the fact that an unscheduled and incorrect record of the voters list cannot be that reason but mechanisms must be made so that such failures do not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83572	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83573	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. For the HSP club, it is indisputable that accurate and up-to-date census records are one of the most important facts for holding any election. Namely, this is a fundamental guarantee for the life of the Constitutional Provisions of Article 45 that all Croatian citizens aged 18 must be entitled and elected and elected. And now we're coming to the situation we've had so far that unfortunately there's been a problem that the voter list wasn't up to date, that it wasn't right, and all of these problems have been expressed in the elections that were held, whether it was the elections for Parliament, whether it was local elections, whether it was elections for the president of the state, and the sad fact is that we're just dealing with it now, means in the course of the election year, and we could have solved it a long time ago. We could also solve the electronic system of data management on the list of voters far before. But well, it's better to ever solve this than never, but we still have to be aware that by adopting this law in this form or with these amendments that have already been announced we have no guarantee that we will have an up-to-date and accurate list of voters. Why? Because of the simple fact that this issue is not only solved by this Law, but there are a number of other laws that also directly influence the fact that we will have an accurate list of voters, or whether we will have an up-to-date census record. There is a Law on residence and residence, there is the Law on Citizenship and other regulations governing the work of the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Interior, and so are the state bodies of the administration responsible for the affairs of the general administration. It is precisely in the work, i.e. the lack of implementation, i.e. the non-implementation of these laws that I am talking about, that is, the authorities of the state administration in charge of the affairs of the general administration in the county and the City of Zagreb, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the diplomatic and consular representation are coming to an answer why so far we do not have an up-to-date list of voters on an up-to-date basis. Why? The first thing is clear, if it is about Croatian citizens living in Croatia so that they can be listed in the list of voters, the state body of the administration responsible for the affairs of the general administration and get the information from whom? From the Ministry of the Interior, because the Ministry of the Interior, or their police administration, is the competent authority for the management of residence data, means identity cards and everything else. Therefore, the problem was that it was a shock or the Ministry of the Interior did not provide data on the residence for Croatian citizens to the body of the state administration in municipalities and the city, that is, the counties and cities responsible for the affairs of the general administration leading the list of voters. So that part can probably be solved electronically, but what about those cases where we have who have in practice appeared to have, let's say, the fact that there are 32 squares in the apartment, there were 80 citizens reported in the City of Zagreb to live. So it's almost theoretically impossible, unfortunately, to have such cases. Are we going to settle this by law? We will not resolve this Law unless there are adequate amendments and additions, i.e. strict implementation of the Law on residence and residence. So we're not going to do anything with this, nor are we going to solve what we're going to introduce the electronic system. When an electronic system is introduced, we can solve that fact if it was what Mr. Arlović said had place in one place and the other, that is, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have a stay, or live, and not only have a stay in another country, either within Europe, or in the diaspora. So we need to be aware of this, this law is not going to solve it, nor can we solve it. This can only be solved by the Law on residence and residence and by the strict application of the Law, which contained the greatest number of problems. It is also another situation that will probably finally be resolved. In fact, these state competent authorities for the general administration's affairs and the list of voters, but the water and the dead and the interesting situation was that these data were not leveled, which is inadmissible. So that's the variant of having two employees sitting in the same office, one keeping a list of voters, the other keeping a list of the dead, and they couldn't level it. It's an unacceptable situation, but that's why I believe in the HSP club that this electronic system can be solved. Now we come to that part about diplomatic and consular representations. We must be aware of the fact that these diplomatic and consular representations and these competent authorities have obviously not been doing their job for a long time in the sense of keeping the list of voters and everything else because it is a legal obligation if a Croatian citizen is leaving Croatia or for work or permanent stay, or residence outside Croatia he must report the facts to the MUP and the MUP as such, the competent authority and the data should be sent to the diplomatic and consular representation. Such situations have many that the MUP has worked, but diplomatic consular representations are not or fulfil their legal obligations and tasks. I say, the best example for you is the case of Spainovic, convicted of war crimes that comes 15 times to the diplomatic consular representations of the Republic of Croatia in Great Britain for setting up travel documents for the family or something else and a diplomatic consular representation that should know and which should immediately be determined means that here is a total fullalo. And there's a lot more to it than that. Therefore, let us be aware and realistic. So it's not the key to an up-to-date and accurate list of voters of the List of Voters Act. The key is that competent authorities enforce laws in due time and in the sense in which it is written in law. There's nothing I can say if there's no such thing as surveillance, if there's no guarantee. Let's not fool ourselves or fool the public. And that is why I say this question, at the point of view of the Croatian Party of Rights, should have been resolved far earlier. Once again, we must be aware of the fact that we did not bring this law to life in the work of the provisions of Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says, in the elections for the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Republic of Croatia, also ensures that the Republic of Croatia also provides for its citizens who, at the time of the elections, are located outside its borders, so that they can vote in countries where they are located or in any other way by law. We have the fact that MP Furio Radin can vote here by letter for the Italian Parliament normally, because he also has Italian citizenship but we also have the fact that a huge number of Croatian citizens who do not have residence in Croatia in this way will not be allowed to implement the life of Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Also, about this principle of the public. We need to be aware of that. We cannot stand on the one hand for the principle of the public and at the same time do not bear in mind the principle of privacy and the principle of the protection of personal data. We have to be aware of one of these facts about it, that's what's important to you in the United States and everywhere else. If a citizen does not want his data to appear publicly, that they are available to everyone, this must be respected. It is the right of citizens, it stems from the principle of the public. This principle of the public also means that it must respect whether we have a principle of privacy, the principle of the protection of personal data. In America, this list is available, but all those on this list must be given the right to use their data as such. If there's no such thing as a privilege, let's say 45. there'll be dots or crosses. It is possible to do so in Croatia, but they are also carrying out that part of the pre-registration. If pre-registration was carried out in Croatia, it would be within the meaning of Article 45. The Constitution could control and allow everyone to vote at the same time. Therefore, let us not interpret the principle of the public just what I like and forget that there is both the principle of privacy and the principle of the protection of personal data. It is now this fact of the media and let's say Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. She says she's the leader of the opposition. So she's the leader of the opposition. Is that just the number of hands or boastfulness? It doesn't belong. Other criteria include, the number of legal initiatives, public influence, honesty, productivity and all other criteria. So is this variant. Therefore, they did not share the same number of hands with the strongest party and for the leader's post. Thus, the principle of the public does not mean that everyone can have everything or there is a principle of privacy and the principle of protection of personal data. And the other thing is clear, you think it's funny because you put things like that in public. About this part about these polling committees. That's not where you said it was, that was the comment of the Croatian party of law club. Namely, the list of voters is run by state authorities. And what is now the responsibility for the lists of voters in these Committees for the City or Municipal Councils or the City Assembly? This was to be done within the framework of state authorities, meaning within the Central State Administration Office, because it is a secondary body compared to these bodies of the State Administration for General Administration Affairs in the City of Zagreb. In fact, the City of Zagreb is doing the tasks that the state has carried over for it and at the level of other counties, not the county, but those are the offices of state administrations that are only dislocated or doing these tasks in the first degree. Therefore, the electronic system is a guarantee that we will have a more up-to-date and accurate list of voters. But there is no guarantee that it will be accurate and up-to-date because unless these situations are resolved that the Ministry of Interior, diplomatic consular representations of the Republic of Croatia and the competent national authorities for the affairs of the general administration do not do their legal obligations and tasks. Let's not make any illusions about this. We do not resolve without guarantee that everyone will do their part of the work in good time and law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83574	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83575	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! Kola Kovacevic, so it is not true that diplomatic consular representations are a purpose for themselves and that they always work against the law. The diplomatic consular representations of the Republic of Croatia is one big network, strives under the Law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to determine their work for the benefit of the Croatian state because it represents a Croatian state around the world. And this has been proven since 1992, Mr Kovacevic, when first elections were held, parliamentary elections and presidential elections outside the country. It's not true, in your opinion, that every voter in the 11th election unit outside the country wants to abuse laws that are not good for you. And stop talking, your banality is more boring to God than it is to man. You approach each topic in one of your own ways. You think people believe you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83576	There it is, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83577	Mr. President! An esteemed colleague is like I have to use her to be respected, and if she talks like this, she's hurt Article 209. I brought up specific cases where diplomatic consular offices didn't work. And I said about the application of Article 45. The Constitution. And you, if you represent that 11. ... The unit then you fight that people have the right to vote, not just those who vote for you. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83578	A new breach of the Rules of Procedure. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83579	.... /The speech room is subsequently included./... like all its citizens living outside the borders of its homeland and the Constitution gives us what you are certainly not happy about, which is that the electoral body is outside the country most of the Croatian Democratic Community. It's not my fault. but trust [[Okay, thank you very much.]] [[Intruder: This is a ruckus usually.]] [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83580	Okay. SDSS's respected representative, Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83581	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, I will briefly comment on this final proposal on behalf of the Club. First of all, I think it should be said that the promoter has taken some suggestions and some suggestions that have been made in the previous debate concerning both the content itself and the nomotechnical arrangement, and in this respect we believe that this final proposal is well fixed. Or made to the extent that it can be, that it can be accepted. Independently, it hasn't been a long time and no matter how little time we've had for it. The other thing I'm saying is that we have one amendment intervention relating to Article 18, which basically refers to the right of each individual to intervene orally or in writing. In this case, it is a previous registration, but this stems from the right to intervene orally and in writing when it comes to the voter list. Because that kind of intervention allows you to get good information. To get on the list of voters where they want to go and can vote. And at the very end of the line, it is possible for an individual to exercise his electoral right as necessary, so it is necessary to meet such a thing. I hope that this intervention is an acceptable amendment and that it will be accepted. I just don't think there's any damage. It's not about basic ideas, and it can only be of use. The third thing I want to comment on here from this place is this matter of deadlines. Article 13 and elsewhere is discussed, it talks about 14 days before the election. From the point of view of civil discipline, from the point of view of the need to carry out the procedure afterwards, and some jobs are fine. I just want to warn you that, in order to maintain that deadline 14 days before the election and to clean up the jobs that need to be done before that. Then also this question of informing an individual with electoral rights about what information there is in the polling list, what its status is there to send, and that notice should be sent on time enough. And I think that when I say enough on time, then it shouldn't come down to 15 days before that day counting down to 14 days. It just needs to be done 2 or it can be more than that, 2 months and more, sooner than what, than that 14-day deadline is coming. Why does it matter? He's here, and we've talked about it before. The polling lists have inaccuracy, voters' lists have some falses in which or not, in which no important information is included and should be given enough time to intervene in the voter's list and enough time should be given to correct that data. It is very good in my opinion that this solution allows for oral and written intervention and because written intervention is regular according to administrative procedure and because it makes it easier for us to do so. At the end of the line we're talking here and about automatic data processing. They used to talk about text messages. It is all in the function of speeding up this procedure to make the voter lists better and more credible. What, in advance, I guess what my colleague Mak is going to say. He will look for data and records from the voter's list of participants. Despite the difficulties that we can have in this respect, both technically and in substance, especially because of this secrecy of information, I am inclined to support this proposal. When I add all this up then I'll just say a sentence we will, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83582	Thank you. In 10 and 49, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. For the Club of National Minorities, respected representative Nikola Mak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83583	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. National minorities are particularly interested in this Act. I remind you that national minorities are in that 12th electoral unit that has 6 units if we can say that 3 of them are pure to say that again; Serbs, Hungarians and Italians who choose one of their own and who have less or more compact environments in which members of these national minorities live. Then come these three mixed: Czechs, Slovaks. Other former constituent nations in the former Yugoslavia, today members of national minorities, so Macedonians, Montenegrins and so on. And then the famous 12th, whose representative I am, the 3rd, with 12 national minorities from Germans, Austrians, Russians, Ukrainians up to 12 Vlachs. And here comes one interest of representatives of national minority parliamentary representatives, as well as associations and members of national minorities, that the better and the more precisely within the framework of a general law on voter lists, and then the electoral law and other laws accompanying the elections, determine that constitutional right for minority members to choose their own in this case 8 MPs in the Croatian Parliament, as well as to choose the so-called so-called elections. its minority self-government, i.e. councils and representatives of national minorities according to a certain number concentration in municipalities, cities and counties. Because this law applies to that, and that's what the corrected text went into one place. No, it's not another place, so I'm going to warn you that there's another place where these councils and representatives should be mentioned. It's interesting now that we're coming to this issue of print. This is one of the central issues that we have asked in previous discussions and which have been dominated by the only part in the first reading, and also in the dominant of this. These other issues, of which a large part of the remarks were adopted in this second reading, would not want to speak but would like to take advantage of this crucial use of the time available to say something about it and to advocate on behalf of the National Minorities Club for certain solutions. When I say that some remarks have been adopted, and some are not just going to give, practice will show how right we were with those where our remarks were adopted, and how right we were with those where our remarks were not adopted. I remind you that according to the latest news, elections for the so-called so-called elections are already coming in May. The minority self-government, so for councils and representatives after the four-year term of the first meeting, and then, as far as national minorities are concerned, we will have the first chance to test what this law says when it comes to national minorities. And now we come to this fundamental issue of a list of voters or not, a conflict of one interest that all participants, all passive participants in the election process get insight into who they represent, with this general aspect which is also supported in many discussions here, so when it comes to 10 constituencies so that at that political level I should say we should have this print in the hands of those who are passive participants, so who are candidates. But especially we minorities are interested in this 12th electoral unit so we know who we're talking to in the first place. Because now on the one hand we have a principle that it would be normal to know who our electoral body is, because otherwise we don't know it, we just know that there are associations, we know phonebooks where there's a specific characteristic last name, etc. But it's all unbeliefable so we can contact them with these potential voters, and they can, and they don't have to choose their minority representatives, because they can go to the political list, I mean to choose a political list. And on the other hand, we have the principle of protection of personal data. This letter that we have here from the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data is not very convincing because in one part of that letter there is no political party law. So it would mean that I can get it out of the conclusion that it says in the Law on Political Parties then it could be in the Law on Lists of Voters. Clearly, then, there is no certainty in this competent body that he actually authoritatively feels about all this. And now we come up with some practical questions when we're discussing this. First of all, the man who declared himself to be a minority member in the 2001 census, who did not keep it secret, has consciously defined himself as a German, Czech, Russian, etc. Hence, he did not hide something that was part of his personality. Secondly, it has been mentioned that we have about 36,000 participants on the day of the election process, so election commissions, election committees. They all have the ability to access that data, and they don't sign any special statement that they're going to keep that data. If he knows I'm German in my election circle, is he at my polls, etc. He knows about the other place, the third, etc. And now, if I have heard Mr. Palaric correctly, this proposal proposed by the Croatian People's Party is adopted. Did I hear that well, Mr. Palaric? Name, last name, address at the request of the participants in the election process. If that is the case, and if the Government accepts it, then our request to bring one principle into line is that we have the right of insight, so candidates in a passive sense. It also protects the personality of every citizen of our country. If that's the case, and now I hear it is, then I think we've achieved our goal. And now it's just as important to say that it does not only apply to the 12th electoral unit, the list of voters for the 12th, but refers to all 12 electoral units and that in this way we will come to a democratic approach to the electoral process. Because we all criticise if 5, 10 or 15% of members of national minorities come out either for parliamentary elections, or for elections for councils and representatives of national minorities at local level. Well, let's not be surprised, so we don't know which election body it is. The Electoral Commission knows him, the Election Board knows him. And in the last election, we're not even that so-called. noodles had. So that's not how people were, because it's a matter of technique, noodles are a matter of technique. Now no more according to this law, because it's going to be a prior notice. So it's also a good solution. But in the last election... the matter of election commissions and election committees, not election committees, but election commissions whether to send noodles or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're not sent anywhere. So what could we expect in May 2003 of the elections for minority self-government? Ten thousand Roma. If Roma representatives can't live with their own, not all Roma, not all of them live in national minorities and compact and homogeneous environments, so that you know that 90% of the population in that vote is in that electoral body and that nationality. And then it's okay, but this is all Croatia. For all these 22 national minorities is the whole of Croatia, an electoral unit. It means from Ilock to Dubrovnik, and then there's this specific position that requires and justifies this request. I'd just like to say in the end that in article 40 where it's about being sent, so to be clear, I'll read it so there's no misunderstanding. It is said in Article 40, before the first election to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament after the entry into force of this law, all voters in the Republic of Croatia will be delivered the print. So it's about every single voter directly. It's okay, and I think there's no money, and I heard something, so it's very expensive, that no money can be a hindrance to it and d in that way we also animate the electoral body to go to the election. I'd just like to add here Mr. Palaric, that's the word: "before the first election." I advocate that it be permanent before all elections, not just before the first elections. Now the first choices that come in November, and then we won't do it. My proposal and the proposal of the National Minorities Club are to delete the word "before the first" rather than be before each election. That's one thing. And secondly, this is where the councils and representatives of the national minorities are missing again, because that notice also applies to them. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83584	Thank you. The HSS Club, a respected representative of Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83585	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, like most clubs, we at the HSS will support the bill. It is evident from almost all debates that the list of voters and the List of voters is one of the essential preconditions for every citizen's right to be elected and that it can still exercise the right to choose is not enough to ensure full accuracy and complete accuracy when it comes to the exercise of that right. No matter how electronic and any other technological innovations we update and organise a list of voters in the way it is foreseen by the new law, if there is no previous quality data processing of public administration authorities, there can hardly be a speech on a completely accurate list of voters and conduct elections. It is known that a number of years ago there have been a lot of objections to the election process itself, that there in the 1990s was indeed the worst way of recording, the records were not up-to-date, the credibility of course was not possible, and the accuracy of the data was also quite questionable. We cannot say without mentioning that the situation in that area has been improving for years. There's the secretary of state and the team that's been working on this job for many years now, and I think it's perfectly quality to look at all the problems that have arisen in this regard and remove every time what they've seen was a problem in the previous selection. We therefore also think that they have been qualified and have, until their last proposals proposed by the draft of this law, analysed everything that was insufficient and not good enough in the previous elections, installed it in the draft of this law and that the bill itself is far more quality and acceptable and that it prevents any major manipulation. But if there are no updates as I said in the public administration bodies, if there are no precise data on the rights of every citizen on his right to vote, it means on the records of 18 years of age, on the precise records of the dead, then of course any law that can in this section be no guarantee that everything will be carried out in a satisfactory manner. It is known about the stories of dead souls, about the stories of voting especially of those who have spoken in this part of it, I would say quite a bit of an argument, about the need to amend the Law on residence and residence because indeed if we have an unresolved situation about mass records of residence and residence at different addresses, there are extreme examples that there are dozens of citizens. Of course, there can be immediately some manipulation and irregularities, and until this is resolved and what needs to be done to remove these causes is not a good law on the list of voters. I see a lot of people are suggesting previous voter registration, and that's settled in many other countries, and I don't think it would be too bad if we thought about it that way, too. What we do in the HSS in some way think that we pointed out in our first reading concerns, that there are no criminal provisions in this bill if there is a failure to comply with this law. It's like I said, it doesn't say what happens here if one of the employees in the general administration does something wrong. Whether it will be a violation of duty, but it is not written about a proposal that would in some way resolve and determine a certain offence and if this happens what should be done and how to punish and whom to punish. And it's known that just from this office when it comes to any other legal provisions, great criminal measures are provided for, not to say, at times, drastically. So respect for this law is, of course, conditioned primarily by the accuracy of the data, the credibility of the data, and thus, of course, the accuracy of the data. If there is such a prerequisite, I think this is a good legislative proposal with all those remarks that other clubs have seen in terms of the rights of national minorities and all that has been said before if, of course, much of the objections are accepted and those who are or will be sent in the form of amendments, I suppose, on behalf of the HSS, can actually support the proposal of this law and announce support for this law on behalf of our club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83586	Thank you. Club IDS, respected representative Valter Drandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83587	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. The elections are certainly the highest democratic act in one country, in one country, the foundation of democracy, and therefore we in the IDS believe that, as with all the other laws that regulate this matter, it is necessary to approach very carefully, thoroughly and that we must get as high-quality laws as possible in order to minimise the manipulations that are still happening in our electoral system. According to the IDS, it is essential that any citizen of the Republic of Croatia who has the right to vote should be given notices of the election before all elections, a copy of the electoral list relating to him and a notice of the polling post, because we believe that the largest legal check is the conduct of the elections by the citizens themselves, the voters themselves. And if they get the notice, we'll definitely have a few effects. First, a quality check because every citizen, at least from that point on, wants to participate in the elections, wants to participate in the process. And secondly, we will have the opportunity for citizens to clearly verify their own data, update and we believe that in this way we will achieve something else, which is that a number of citizens will go to the elections that we also consider to be one of the fundamental conditions for quality implementation of electoral systems and the functioning of systems both the state and regional local and local governments that we often forget, and there elections are very important and important. Secondly, the IDS hopes we won't see any more votes die, we won't miss them, as someone said before, the whole street. There will be no sudden increase in the number of voters in certain polling stations or even what we had in case there were more voters than the inhabitants themselves. Clearly, we do not feel that this law will solve it in itself and the law certainly will not solve all these problems. Amendments to other laws, as already said, are needed, of the Law on residences, of residences. And we are aware that manipulations are clearly possible. But our goal is to bring these laws down to the minimum possible extent, and we believe that the great problem of this Law is that there are absolutely no criminal provisions, and I repeat, regardless of the legal provisions, the manipulations in the electoral system are quite possible and we believe that this Law should be introduced in any case. I'll tell you, for example, in Great Britain, they're punishments, for example. for the abuse of data up to a thousand pounds and for the abuse of voting, as in the case of a double vote, as in our case, and confirmed that there were up to five thousand pounds. And I think that one system, one state like ours, wouldn't hurt if we had built-in criminal provisions in this part of the legislation. But even for us from IDS, this law is in any case more quality, better than the previous one. It is good that what is largely already done is legal, which is an electronic data processing. A modern system of voters who certainly contributes to accuracy, which contributes and reduces what I said earlier, reduces the ability to manipulate data, speed and enables us to have more quality data and information for all those who need that information and data, whether because of the election process itself, or because of their control. We also think it's a good thing that there's been an opportunity to look at the list throughout the year, not just in those election days, to call them that. But we think it would be a good idea to accept our committee's proposal to give all those who are 18 years old and gain the right to vote, and we think it would be good to think about that once again, to give a special notice that they have acquired the right to vote, that they are listed in that record. We think that in this way we would also stimulate young people who vote very little to think in a way about having their right to vote, to have their own voice, and to use it. And I think it is also in some way a reflection of a civilization's reach, of a country's cultural reach to inform its citizens, with today's voter list, you've been given the right to vote, we congratulate you on that, we hope you will perform your function and quality, that you will fulfill your civic and right, but also a notice that you vote in the elections. We also welcome the opportunities given in this law relating to the issue of nationality, registration on the basis of a statement, and in any case we support this amendment by the CNS to be implemented from the list of voters of delivery to all those participating in the electoral process. We believe that this will also contribute to a better quality of elections, reduction, repeat, manipulation with this data. But in this law, there are still a lot of questionnaires, a lot of dubiosis. This primarily refers to the protection of personal data. It refers to questionable responsibilities between the committees established by cities and municipalities and those who are competent to manage the list itself, which is the state. And it seems to me, to us in the IDS, that this issue is not fully worked out, especially in Article 35 of this Law. And we also support the proposal made by the SDP club to maybe extend the deadline for the amendment, to try to improve those solutions even more quality and to change. I think that it should be absolutely accurate so that certain false interpretations cannot occur, inconceivable in the way it is done, and we are again looking for interpretations, etc., and we are entering some kind of problems that should not be happening to us in this electoral system. So we support that proposal. If these articles of the law are more specific and solve IDS will also support this law, and until then we remain to see how the Government will react to these proposals. And I repeat, once again, it is fundamental for us that each voter is informed before the election that the elections are held and when they are held with a copy of their data, with a voter's list so that it can control and clearly change the necessary data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83588	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83589	Your Honor, Mr. President, I need to make my argument very clear methodologically. In theory, this debate can be settled in the context of the testimony of the survivors. I have left behind three elections, two presidential and one constituency, and speaking from that perspective the voters' lists are one of the very important elements of free and fair elections, are unfortunately not the only and most important. From that perspective, then, I will try to say by considering the elections as some kind of cube, which is why all gamblers must be interested in clear transparent rules and free and fair elections. In the context of this intention I will vote for this Law, but I will remind you of several types of narratives that are missing in Croatia to know where the basic sources and patterns of fraud are. As time is very tight in Croatia, people forget it. In the presidential elections last at the Dida inn, I pointed to one circumstance, I received information that the current president of the Republic of Stipe Mesic and the former and current director-general of Croatian television and that they agreed that if this one gets the support of Croatian television, this other one will appoint him ambassador to France. And that seemed like one quite inconclusive claim, but the information I got was obtained from a man who never let me down, that deal happened at the As Hotel, and I was sure that the man was telling the truth. Time has shown that this truth is undeniable. We are now going back to the problem of insurance, the secretary of state and you respected President of the Parliament and you learned colleagues how to secure free and fair elections. You see, for several months now, we have witnessed an illegal, anti-constitutional and against common sense campaign for the Chancellor of Croatia led by one of our colleagues. I've asked several institutions to intervene. Our Constitutional Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that he gave me for the right and said that something should be done so that at least the public should be warned that people are not elected for the President of the Republic, but to choose for us ordinary, small parliamentary representatives and that such fraud significantly disrupts the legitimacy and credibility of this House of Commons, deceives the public and encourages other people not to compete for the honorable place in this House of Commons, but to deceive voters to compete for the Prime Minister. The next step is to manipulate the media, and what I am particularly concerned about, on a very concrete example, is to illustrate, the manipulation of the polls. In Croatia, there is no serious organisation of respondents that would have firmly defined ethical criteria and therefore there are several commercial respondents who simply order such types, not to say fake office candidates give and publish in so-called ". read or respected magazines results of fake surveys. Such one appeared in the last "National" where it is proved that this colleague, and this is Radimir Cacic, also had a far-reaching haircut from Ivo Sanader, Ivica Racan and Chancellor Kola, so he is certainly a rising star and will practically win those elections. This racket is very wide, it is partly valuablely supported, and the other part is commercially supported. There's a child, there's family albums, there's highways, it's privatization of our entire national effort, the capture and privatisation of it, and that's why my appeal to GONG didn't respond. If it had come to the other side, the entire Croatian public would have been alarmed. I addressed his Excellency, the European Commission's ambassador to Croatia, did not respond. I directed the Programme Council of Croatian Television, I received a few days ago a response as if Croatian television must monitor such events. They didn't say why they didn't comment on it. We have to move on, so we have to get one serious narration to see voters cheat, not voters cheat, but elected voters and the Croatian public cheat. There's a lot of sources of fraud. I've already announced in this House of Commons that when I finish my work on making a Law on the Public Central Register of Dead Persons, I'm popularly known as the Dead People's Law where this list of voters would be combined with people who are dead. This is very important for Croatia because dispersion of people who vote is linked to the dispersion of people who are both bank guarantees and who have loans and this register is vital to Croatian social, economic and other life. Now a few typical methods of fraud. I mentioned some. Civilian supervision and party supervision is another area that does not have to be and should not be limited to monitoring at the time of the vote and the packaging of election boxes because it exists from my experience, let's say in the first constituency there is one simple trick to rounding up another candidate on the list where a candidate who does not match the one who controls the box, round up another candidate and in the first election unit you have had I think 2,000 and 600 invalid ballots. So many ballots in the last parliamentary elections would allow another candidate behind me to enter this High House, that's another scam. So the third is an unfair approach to the media and the treatment of particularly public media, public campaigns. On several occasions, I proposed to the Director-General of Croatian Television a code of ethics on public media behaviour, especially Croatian television during a long period of such fake, wild and fraud campaigns. It is unacceptable for leaders, journalists to appear as speakers or smugglers of different political parties, different candidates. It is unacceptable that there are party or SDP markings on their cars, or HDZ or my club that I belong to the Hajduk Club. So in that sense, I think there's going to be a big con about this otherwise intense thing that I'm heart and soul supporting, which was initiated by the HSP, and supported by the government's happiness that the electoral lists and parties must have 10,000 signatures in order to go to the polls. My experience shows Mr. President that there is no control, that one person can sign on 10 electoral lists, that the Electoral Commission does not have the electronic or other ability to control such 10,000 signatures. Therefore, you will have the commercialization of 10,000 signatures. And instead of having one fair intention realized, all in all Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. President of the Parliament, I am all these sad stories and some happy ones described it and I will deliver it to you in the chapter of my book to see how election lists of voters are not the basis for ensuring free and fair choices. And I urge that something be done to stop the tide of these false commercial polls that create a big confusion, create public opinion and cheat voters, cheat the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83590	When does the book come out?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83591	Mr. President... And she appears until Easter. [[The speaker is not understood, not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83592	Well, that's impressive to me, too. Replica, the esteemed representative of Silavo Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83593	Dear Mr. President, dear fellow MPs! Dear fellow Letica, in the context of your stated claims on the actual number of invalid ballots in your election unit, I must note that I have analyzed the election results myself... In the 8th constituency, and I noticed a large disproportionateity between invalid ballots in urban areas where there is control and this control of the elections either from party or non-party organisations in relation to rural areas where even in some cases the number of invalid ballots has risen to 15%. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think it's very justified that you point out this possible problem of manipulation with election results.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83594	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83595	The answer is very short. Unfortunately, we do not have a serious or empirical or monographal study of the type of testimony of survivors. In this area, in the area of invalid ballots, in the area of replacing election boxes, in the area of waiting for transport cars and replacing boxes is hidden not twice, Mr Hrelja, but 10, 15, 20% more problems and two people who allegedly voted dead are demonized. It's absurd.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83596	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83597	Thank you, Mr. President, dear secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. This Final Proposal for a Law on Lists of Voters should contribute to the fact that all those irregularities, whose witnesses from all over the past years, are at least at the least possible. And the truth is some technical things and improvements in that sense this law undoubtedly contains. However, my fundamental remark on this Final proposal on the lists of voters and thus on the suppression of all those manipulations with the vote, all those thefts and other irregularities that occurred during the election process is questionable whether they will be disabled? Namely, all the misunderstandings in the vote itself are the basis of lists of voters who are registered or those who have the right to access the vote, the vote is based precisely on the records held by the Police Administration on residence. However, this category of residence application continues to be more thoughtful or sensitive. Someone comes to the Police Department and reports their residence. For some time, it even related to the ownership or application of the contract, the presentation of the subsistence contract. These are also not relevant criteria and logically that the Constitutional Court abolished such a provision. What's most important is the control of one person's residence. The residence is a place as defined by law as where a person settled with the intention of living there and with the irrefutable fact that most of the year such a person lives there. Croatia is here, obviously powerless to control the residence. That is, it is a big job because the abuses in the residence application are almost normal and they are not considered to be social unwanted behavior. If anyone says, you know I'm, I don't live here, I'm registered at another address. And no one finds such one behavior absolutely unacceptable. First of all, it's because the state is wronged from such false residences. And then later, because the voters' lists are based on exactly such records, the question is how to contain and how to get a credible list of voters if we are based on already unverified and unverified records such as records that have police administrations because they either don't have or it's a huge job that would require police officers to control their residence. But I repeat, we must deal with it. Perhaps, just according to individual police administrations and the organisation of such one control would produce good results. I would like to refer here to one of the shortcomings that contains this proposal on voter lists and to God for privacy protection so that all those competitors and those who participate have the right to control, including civil society, all interested persons who justifiably suspect that there are persons who, who do not have that residence, who have died, cannot simply react. Although people had just responded because they knew in one way or another, it is not a question of how they found out, they knew that the voters list contained persons who had long died. Here, I will re-emphasise that example of the son of the man whose father died 15 years ago and who heard that his father appeared from that world for each election and voted neatly. So these weren't lonely cases because, for various reasons, such persons were found or not deleted from the list of voters. Because that record constantly draws its roots and is a copy of the residence records. Until the residence is effectively controlled, we will continue to have an outflow of state resources because other rights are laid down at the place of residence, which individual users are drawing by false reporting. In that sense, this Law would be nothing even eloquent and controversial when it says in its article 4 that a citizen can have only one residence in Croatia, which is quite normal and acceptable. So all those citizens who do not have a residence in Croatia as if this Law, the advantage of the Law does not recognise that they can have a residence abroad. So he says, “Wherein the foreign address of dwellings and the state of residence is indicated.” It is not a country of residence. It's a state of residence. Therefore, in this respect, the response should be made in Article 4. So this law acknowledges one fact that our citizens do not have to have a residence in Croatia because it is true that they do not. But they have a place of residence, and their dwelling is in a foreign land. It's some fact that he has to take care of, which he has to take care of, and this bill. In fact, many of the troubles came years ago when even civil servants working on these jobs forced our people to find a place where they reside in Croatia. Although they say my place of permanent residence is America. "No, you must have a residence." No. A man can only have one place where he resides on the globe of the earth. What he pointed out as a major remark, one of our colleague Arlović's main remarks, saying on behalf of the SDP Club, is one indifference in Article 35, so that the party or person who is dissatisfied with the work of the Committee on Records may complain to the Municipal Court. So that's one rarity where we don't even know if it's a administrative act or if it's an act where our legal system knows who's responding. Is it the administrative body, or is it the administrative court after all? All of a sudden, we're giving jurisdiction to the municipal court. Of course, judicial protection is needed from the government's body, but the question is, what kind of commission is it? What is his nature, and what are the acts of the legal nature of acts brought only by the Commission? And I know that in that maybe once wandering, there's a thing that's come out that the Community Court could do. But why when we were just discussing the State Election Commission yesterday or the amendments to the Law on the State Election Commission? It is quite logical that it is done by the State Election Commission but not as a temporary body or some of its temporary members but as, therefore, it exists as, that is why it is established as a permanent body. One permanent institution that has permanent, which has a regular day-to-day job, even when there are no elections to advance elections. This is what the secretary of state explained nicely in the first reading and in the final proposal. But unfortunately, yesterday it gave up, so here we have some members who have a permanent job. Who have one of the most responsible jobs that can even be imagined. One of the most intellectual and most difficult jobs is the place of trial. It is the seat of the Supreme Court judge so that you would now send them to this permanent body but with the explanation: "And yet they will not do anything constantly. This will be done by these ordinary members." So it is a bad message and despite these elections. It's also a bad message for such a tall institution as the Supreme Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83598	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83599	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The issue of orderly and up-to-date voter list management is very important for the regularity of the election, which means that all Croatian citizens aged 18 have the right to choose and be elected. Lists of voters in the Republic of Croatia are records of all Croatian citizens who turned 18 and are headed towards the place of residence. So we have lists of voters for Croatian citizens who have residence in the Republic of Croatia, but we also have a special list of voters for Croatian citizens who have residence outside the Republic of Croatia. The very fact that so far the current Law in the voters ’ lists was passed in 1992 so 15 years ago indicates that there is a need for changes and that therefore a new law should be passed. It should be noted that a new territorial structure and a series of organisational laws have been passed since 1992, which prescribes a new title for legal institutes and bodies listed in the current Law on Lists of Voters under other names. Furthermore, the current law requires the keeping of a list of voters in a manner appropriate to the time in which it has been adopted, so it is prescribed that they are conducted manually or in the form of files or automatic data processing. Meanwhile, a new technology has been implemented to run the voters' list. If we add that the current practice of applying the existing law has shown a number of disadvantages, for example, in the list of voters for certain elections that did not have a solution in the legal provisions, which required the need to adopt specific instructions from the State Election Commission in order to avoid any unpleasant situations. The suspicions and remarks that occurred usually after the choice to speak in. There were doubts about who it was appropriate to, and the emphasis was always on the list of voters with residence abroad, although there is no better situation when it comes to lists of voters with residence in the Republic of Croatia. I'm going to give an example of the city of Vrlika where the condition of the list of voters has actually led to absurdity. According to the 2001 census, Vrlika numbers 3100 inhabitants, with more than 3 and a half thousand citizens aged 18. So you're right to vote. Is that even supposed to be commented? The real question that I have raised on the Committee before the adoption of this Law since we have before us parliamentary elections. I asked if this proposed bill would solve this problem? So unfortunately, I didn't get a positive answer, but the argument that it wasn't just this law. This is, above all, about the Law of residence and residence. Many list problems stem from this law, as solving these problems depends on the work of diplomatic and consular representations. The problems are in the co-operation of the competent authorities of the state administration and the Ministry of Interior and the Office for General Administration Affairs. In fact, the Ministry of the Interior is that it keeps records of residence and any changes and all data for the list of voters is required to be supplied to the national authority for the tasks of the general administration. There were a lot of problems in the past, and when Croatian citizens had a neatly registered residence they were not properly registered because the Ministry of General Administration did not supply data, or the General Administration office did not include that information in the list of voters. This exchange of data between the police administration and the competent authorities of the state administration could be said to be one of the main causes that the number of persons on the list is greater than the number of inhabitants. I believe that this part of the introduction of electronics in this area will finally be resolved in a timely manner. It is certainly an improvement in the proper application of modern technology and a unique home number does not allow for double enrolment which I consider to be very good. Of course, this law will introduce order and reduce possible manipulations. I believe that all problems will not be solved without the appropriate amendments and addition of the Law on residence. However, I believe that this is a step forward and that this bill should be passed with proposals and improvements made. And we know for a fact that in four years, the new census is a new one. So I believe we're going in the right direction, and if we use that, we could finally get a quality bill on voters' lists in the future. That's why I'm going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83600	Thank you. Replica, a respected representative of Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83601	Mr. Rebic said there are more voters in Vrlica than the residents. That's not just the problem with the Realm. You do not have any border local units in Dalmatia, and probably not in Croatia that has no more voters than the population. And whatever law we pass we will never be able to prevent, because the Herzegovians will first vote in the morning for the diaspora, for the diaspora list, and then they will go to Vrgorac, Imotski, to Makarska for coffee and will vote as Croatian citizens again for the list... And that's right, and there, things can't be applied there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83602	Replicate response, Honored Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83603	Well, well-respected colleague Marasovic. So I presented the fact that it was in the last election. But I also have to say that compared to the first election, there has been a population improvement. But I also suggest that some other laws should be changed on residence and that this law has already ruled out the possibility of double voter registration. So this law, I think, is a step forward with all the other and new censuses and the harmonisation of the Housing Act, and I think we're on our way to getting a quality law on voter lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83604	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83605	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the elections are in every society as well as in Croatian society and in the Croatian state one of the foundations of democracy. I'll start with Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Croatian citizens have a general and equal voting right with 18 years of age in accordance with the law. The right to vote is exercised in direct elections and in secret voting. Thank God there was a Constitution, thank God there was a law, thank God we came to a multiparty in the Republic of Croatia. So I'm going to do a historical review since 1992, that is, since 1990, when we first went to Croatia for a multiparty free election in April. Then many people from the eviction came for the first time and voted for the freedom of their people. Just before the first multilateral elections in the Republic of Croatia, we who lived outside the country did not know whether we would be granted the right to vote. I am sorry that I did not bring today a letter which I then wrote to Mr. Latin on behalf of many Croatian citizens who lived outside the country to grant us the right to vote because we have the right to do so. Thank God for the historic multiparty election. They have contributed to the freedom of creating a democratic and independent state of Croatia. I'll be a little more specific. From 1992 to today, all elections related to the president and parliamentary elections have certainly been held outside the country. In the 11th constituency that looks like a lot of onions in the eyes. I will answer some questions, or debates that have taken place today, and before that I will say what makes me particularly happy and certainly many people in the country and beyond. In all aspects of our society, Croatia is experiencing its standard and therefore on the 16th scale according to the standard of living in the Republic of Croatia, well, this is evidence not only in the open, on the Round Table about the list of voters I was present as a representative from the Croatian Parliament. And it was said and commended to the organisation and how elections were held from 1992 to the last elections in the Republic of Croatia. It's getting better, it's getting simpler, and everything that I'm going to say in a simple, simple word, a word of speech, and it's getting hotter. If that were not the case in the 11th constituency besides some irregularities that I do not justify by many foreign observers, journalists praised the state diplomatic representations of the Republic of Croatia on the organisation and conduct of the elections. State representations of the Republic of Croatia, diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia under the rules adopted by the State Election Commission, or the competent authority from the Republic of Croatia, shall organise elections in, in the field of exteriorities of the Republic of Croatia. There's no problem anywhere we might be ashamed of. And I repeat, for all of that if, if it happened on purpose, I'm sorry that it happened right in the 11th constituency. It wasn't proven that the dead voted, that someone did it on purpose, that it wasn't proved whether it was done on purpose. So that fewer errors occur both in the country and in the 11th constituency, i.e. all 12 constituencies here and before us is the Law on lists of voters that will help to organise elections both in the country and outside the country. In this case, the gentlemen calling the state representations of the Republic of Croatia must enter into one problem, which they are not familiar with. It's not easy to organise an election. In XI. the electoral unit, i.e. on the ex-territory of the Republic of Croatia if it belongs to a number of tens of thousands of voters. Voters in XI. The electoral unit, or Croats outside the country, is responsible for people, because they are aware if the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 45, gives the right, every right, to bear both the obligation and the responsibility. I am sure that every voter in the country and outside the country is trying to respect the Constitution and all the electoral laws of the Republic of Croatia, so I hope that it will happen in the future. Therefore, the list of voters we are talking about today, the previous registration of voters to vote abroad, Article 15, which has already been cited several times, Article 16, Article 17, the provisional entry into the list of voters outside the place of residence, the conclusion of the list of voters until Article 36, 37, 38, and the vote certificate will allow for the best and more effective implementation of the vote beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, or on the ex-terio of the Republic of Croatia, and one of the main reasons I am sure is that we have managed the lists of voters manually so far, and are now being conducted in electronic form and thus will allow as easy and efficient data control and processing as possible. However, here I see that there is a great pessimism and pointed out what can happen, and I suggest that, I am sure that this has happened in a small number, so it will happen in the future in as little as possible, that all people who have dual citizenship, it allows the Law on Croatian Citizenship, to vote and register, shows themselves to the authorities of the Croatian state with state, with Croatian travel documents, personal ID and housekeeper with home number, whether they have German citizenship or they have Canadian and American citizenship, that they will respect and respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia, the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia. The doubt about two stays outside the country allows for certain irregularities, but these irregularities and no one has longed to have someone who has a place of residence in Stuttgart or Hamburg to take advantage of that day and to go once to the Croatian consulate in Stuttgart and then fly by plane or railway to Hamburg, because they are aware of the responsibility towards Croatia, they are aware of the responsibilities and are aware of that too, God forbid it happens that they cannot change the results and the will of Croatian citizens. However, the state diplomatic, consular representations and, in the future, will seek to organise good elections, and now I will say what I already wanted, and this is very important. The technical preparation of an electoral post on the ex-territory of the Republic of Croatia is much different, much more difficult, is not easy in Stuttgart or as one of the electoral venues in Zagreb or in Imotski or Lovrec, because the election post in Stuttgart is gravitating 160 thousand Croatian citizens, not all of them have the truth right to vote. The ex-teritory of the Republic of Croatia is the General Consulate of the Republic of Croatia and it is normal that through one electoral place that is well organized, at 12 o'clock goes somewhere, it is not prescribed by law, between me I will say a thousand or two thousand voters. The election seat of the General Consulate in Stuttgart is being gravitated by several thousand voters. Where and where it is more difficult to establish control in Stuttgart than in one electoral post in the country. However, despite all these difficulties, I am sure that the Law on the List of Voters will help both voters and will help organisers and those in charge to organise elections outside the country to remove those doubts that were raised on the first, and in the first debate and now in the second, according to the XI voters. election units, I'm sure they're as responsible as they've been. For some they are the burden of this state, but I say they are the wealth of this state.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83606	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83607	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from my colleague. The first is an incorrect allegation regarding the establishment of polling stations for the vote of Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in Croatia. Not only is the DKP needed to seek the consent of the state in which such elections are held, they should know that. Secondly, that diplomatic and consular representations keep the records neatly, means that pre-registration is done and everything else, it is impossible for the same person to vote in both Stuttgart and Hamburg because of the fact that pre-registration is carried out and that, as such, he cannot accept it at the vote in Hamburg and signed up, he is not in Stuttgart because 15 days before the voter lists are concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83608	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Zdenka Babić Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83609	... My colleague Kovacevic never fixed what I was saying. [[Speech is not enabled.]] The State Election, State Election Commission, that is, the Croatian State, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs respects the Vienna Convention and submits requests under the Vienna Convention to the receiving countries to hold elections for parliamentary and presidential elections. So don't be more sacred than the Pope.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83610	Replica, a respected representative of Jagoda Martic. Please, two of you get closer. Get a little closer. Love and tolerance need more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83611	Thank you, Mr. President. With one part of the debate, counterpart Babić Petricevic could agree with the part where she said that Croatia is a young country, we are developing, and therefore we reach certain standards of the modern democratic state every day, and that is good, and that is what makes us all happy. A colleague says there were no irregularities, there were no irregularities in the election or there were few. Here we are actually discussing a list of voters that should be the basis for regular implementation of all elections. So the accuracy of the list of voters is the basis on which all other data should be based. However, whether we want to admit it or not, the voters' lists so far have not been a reflection of the real situation. Therefore, this Law itself does not really allow us to make such a guarantee that we will have accurate lists of voters in the future. We were talking about places, and I come from a place in Makarska that has already become a synonym about having more people enrolled in voters' lists than we have residents. And that's not, that's not a small difference. It's a few thousand differences between the real number and what we have. So, until I do, and what I think should be done. First of all, we need to determine exactly what the real situation is. Through the police, through, to control the place of residence, or the registered address that doesn't happen to have so many people reported in one address that they can't physically stand there and just after that go to the electronic form of the voters' list because otherwise we're actually going to have one irregular, incorrect leadership just now in another form. So it's still that incorrect data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83612	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83613	Mr. President. My colleague, it's not like the law or the list of voters in front of us is not a guarantee of anything. Neither the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and we call it sacred, the Bible besides what we call our Bible sacred and tell it the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is sacred. It's not a guarantee of anything, let alone an election. But in an effort to avoid many irregularities, in an effort to list, to pass the elections in one democratic atmosphere, I said that this is also one of the main conditions for these next elections and the next elections to be as accurate, more democratic and more human as possible, if you want to end up. No law, I repeat, is a guarantee of anything and no law on voter lists. But through this law we try to solve those mistakes, I repeat, if they happened, and there are if not anything else, then reduce them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83614	Thank you. For PGS, SBH and MDS, respected representative Nikola Ivanis.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83615	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Let us say in these final five minutes on behalf of the regional party club that we will support this bill proposal for the simple reason we hold that there has been an improvement between the first and second readings of the entire set of solutions proposed here. We had a proposal for a law that gave the government a reservation on the question of the availability of the voters' list. From simply, not wanting to enter the diametrically opposite views about the voters list, it is obvious that they were in a certain way in our political and overall public as it was and absolutely clear that in the range of 400 to 900 thousand we have discrepancies in those lists and for this reason we think that just as the secretary of state says, Croatia is a democratic country, has a reform democratic capacity and therefore should go further and make lists of voters available to those who are interested in the elections. Since an amendment is accepted that all participants in the election from parties to independent lists will be able to get a list of voters with data that are definitely not a secret, name and address, and if, as participants of the election, they want to do their best to do and work in the finals and the testing of controls, all participants in the elections will feel that this is a step further and that the elections in Croatia will, therefore, be more public and democratic. And we really think that, given this, we really need to support this law. Of course, we agree with this part where the importance of the problem of residence and residence is discussed, so given that, we keep, in the next period, we should think about going to better quality legal solutions and the Law on residence and residence being passed, and today we support this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83616	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic, 5-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83617	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Well, at the end of this debate, I have to repeat the position of the Croatian party of rights club, and it is most importantly contained in the fact that by this law, we will have no guarantee that we will have an up-to-date, list of up-to-date and accurate lists of voters because of the fact that it is not the key to this law alone. There are a number of other laws, the Law on residence and residence, the Law on Citizenship, the Law on Labour and the DKP and everything else. And we're not going to get what we're supposed to get if the government's competent authorities, so the Ministry of the Interior, the diplomatic and consular representations and the state authorities in charge of the general administration don't do their job strictly and as prescribed in the law. For example, this law won't give, it doesn't answer how the case will be solved, as the colleague said, that in Makarska, there is more to the list of voters than there are according to the list of voters. That's your case and Plaškoga, we have cases like that in Croatia. Is that a matter of this law being settled? It's not the law that solves that question. So, this law automatically by no means, this law automatically by introducing an electronic system does not solve that part unless it determines what a residence is. Unless the Home Office solves the part first. Because he can't solve the General Administration's State Office to delete someone from the voters' list unless there's one from the Home Office that someone isn't, there's no residence in Plaškam, there's no residence in Makarska or anywhere else. That's your variant. So without it, it's impossible to legally resolve. Who knows how it's done, and that's how it's done legally. The list of voters is being introduced and I know unlike you who don't know. In fact, I've been working on holding elections in mixed polling stations with armed forces where they're much harder to organize. This is a similar situation that should work because one is voted for in view of where a person has a place of residence. It is a fairly responsible job in terms of voter lists, getting excerpts, timely obtaining from the Election Commission election materials and everything else, but I say this Law does not solve this situation that we have long been pointing to, does not solve. So we had a situation that a journalist voted in Croatia at the same time and went to Herzegovina and that was the case, no one gave an answer as to how it was possible to do it. It was possible to do because the list of voters was wrong. It's not a good thing we don't have pre-registration and all the other situations. It is impossible for someone to be able to vote in Munich at the same time if they are registered in Germany in Stuttgart. It is possible so far that it is done because the DKP is not doing their job, but to perform pre-registration, and within 15 days before the elections, voting lists are concluded, it is impossible to understand, but it is difficult to tell people who do not know how to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83618	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Antu Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83619	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. So I think that we are on the verge of adopting a good law which is supported by most parliamentary clubs and which is a step forward in resolving the election legislation of the Republic of Croatia. I immediately announced this morning that with regard to the protection of personal data on the one hand, and with regard to the right to access information or the right to participants in the electoral process know which electoral body will choose the least harmful variant or something, one will determine the measure and we will accept the amendment to be submitted to political parties and to the holders of independent lists of voters, but only the address, name, last name and address. So we're going to protect those data that we think should be protected, that it needs to be protected from the unique birth number used in banks and other bodies and also nationality, even though I have to say about nationality that there are no objections that we're forcing someone to express themselves. For us, national membership is very important precisely for the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the right to proportional representation in representative bodies of the local self-government unit and the regional self-government unit, there is no special list of voters for the presidential elections, parliamentary and local elections. The list of voters is one and unique. We need to enable everyone to make a national statement at all times and that what he said to change it, but we can't have that section. Therefore, according to the Constitutional Law, when lists of voters are harmonised, when this whole procedure is implemented, representation as a corrective element of the orderly will have to be ensured, changes registered in the voters' lists in relation to the representative bodies and it is therefore very important to indicate that they belong to the national minority. There have been objections that this law has no criminal provisions, and that from an office that I have the honour of keeping the laws come sometimes with dragons' penalties. Yeah. We believe that, as it is well said, there should be carrots and beatings, and this Law has criminal provisions, they are not taxed, but it is prescribed in Article 43 that the injury is, this applies to officials, violation of the provisions of this Law is a serious violation of official duty. Gentlemen, for serious violations of official duty, I will insist that the criminal policy of the official courts be serious, that they cease to find a variety of easy circumstances, and for violations, for violations of the law concerning the election process itself cannot be easy circumstances and I can tell you any serious injury will also be fired for the civil servant. The issue of residence, residence opened, and we in Croatia have this practice one place of residence and another place of residence. Other countries do not have it and we have no claim to our law to regulate rules on other countries, there on the document issued writes where he resides, where he lives, which is why we did not want to transfer our difference between residence and residence outside the Republic of Croatia. There have been also a number of questions, one of the formulations of this Law have been tried to interpret that we intend to restrict the electoral right by referring directly to the Constitution that the electoral right has from the Croatian citizens from 18 years of age. Of course there is, of course. And he can't vote anywhere, and if he hasn't been registered, so it can happen, for example, in the week when the voter lists are concluded, he has published a residence from Split, came to Zagreb, signed up and now based on confirmation or turns 18 or something happened doesn't have him in the voter's list. As an 18-year-old Croatian citizen, he has the Constitutional right to vote and he will be based on the certificate to be entered, written and given election materials. Here, we've got a few amendments, I've announced something that we'll accept, we'll see what else from the amendment comes along, but I believe this is a step forward. In a near future when the State Election Commission strengthens, once it has established a professional service, we will hand them a list of eligible, clean, dead souls, no double enrolments, we will hand them over, but we are not unserious to hand it over to this Law body that has not yet functioned. When it works, when it strengthens the professional service, when it is able to carry out these tasks, we will be happy to give them what I have said to the arranged lists of voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83620	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83621	That's right. Mr. President, you're right, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption. Mr. Palaric says this law does not restrict electoral rights anywhere. It is limited if we have an 11th electoral unit, and we do not allow all citizens without residence in Croatia to vote. And we are making it impossible because we have not introduced a correspondence vote and we know for ourselves that there are a couple, in every country a few polling stations and there are far more citizens who live there or have Croatian citizenship. They can't even vote technically and it makes it impossible to vote. So either cancel the 11th constituency or put in a letter vote. This is manipulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83622	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15.00 hours by voting on the debated points. At 15.00 hours of voting on the debated points. Final proposal of the Law on Lists of Voters. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS. Secretary of State, Club of HNS Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83624	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We accept the content of the amendment, but we would suggest the government's formulation so there would be no doubt, so I'll read it. Therefore, Article 13a, which reads as follows: "After the confirmed lists of candidates, the written request of the participants in the electoral procedure by the competent authority holding the list of voters will provide information with the personal name and address of the voters in the census records within 24 hours of receipt of the written request.", that was paragraph 1. Paragraph 2, however, we must take care of other elements and say: "The rules on the protection of personal data apply to the submission and use of data from the list of voters to participants in the electoral procedure.". So, that data should not be distributed and I don't know any commercial houses or any advertising.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83625	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter of the club of representatives of the HNS, the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83626	He stayed for 24 hours?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83627	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83628	Then this performance is acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83629	Thank you. This amendment is therefore accepted in the changed form. It becomes an integral part of the law. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83630	We accept most of it. Namely, we would suggest that the already existing records are deleted from this text, namely, for us the list of voters is official records, no other records should create confusion. Therefore, the Government's formulation of the amendment would read: "Article 16(1) behind the commas is deleted: "a" and, at the end of the text, place a decimal instead of a point and add the words "and on the basis of oral or written request".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83631	Copy that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-02-09-0.u83632	Thank you. So in a changed form, this amendment becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 97 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against the adopted Law on lists of voters in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin work at the 24th session of the Croatian Parliament. It is on the agenda - Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2005. – Proposer of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. I'd like a representative of Pero Kovacevic, please. Here you go.
