ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90121	We're continuing the session. So we go to the agenda point - Proposal for a list of candidates for the selection of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia Proposal for an act in accordance with Article 125. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were delivered by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I ask the president of the Committee, Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic, to take his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, as we know to the Constitutional Court judge, Mr Vukovic, on March 1st, the term of office of the Constitutional Court judge was still expired because man met the conditions for retirement. We launched a procedure last year to elect a new judge of the Constitutional Court, however, as you all know at the 24th session of the Croatian Parliament, we delivered a list of two candidates to the Parliament. In that story were Professor Davor Krapac and Mr. Boris Koketti. Also, as you know, none of these two candidates have received the required majority, most of them are the majority of the total number of votes of this House. Afterwards, we launched a new procedure where three candidates came forward, again Mr. Krapac reported to Mr. Labas's competition and we received a third candidate lawyer from Vinkovac, Mr. Mara Babic. We conducted a full procedure according to the law, so everything was very public, transparent, we had a public conversation with the candidates, and after that we established a list of two candidates. They're professors. Thief and lawyer Marko Babic. But here's what I have to say, in the meantime, there's been a change. Mr. Marko Babic gave up his candidacy so we'll only have one candidate, which is in accordance with the law again, because the law said that we're proposing a list with as a rule multiple candidates. Here's the rule we won't be able to make, but it's still in accordance with the law, so we have one single candidate on Professor. I'm not wasting my word on a thief. We have analyzed and determined on the board that it is indeed one expert, a scientist who is known not only in the frameworks of the Republic of Croatia but also in the context of his work. What I must say is, I propose that since the judges have to take office on the day of the end of the term of office of the judge instead of which they are coming, which was March 1st, of course we cannot respect it anymore than that day of entry into office within the deadline set by the Parliament, and we propose that it be after the oath is made before the President of the Republic of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, you know we're expecting the election procedure of eight judges of the Constitutional Court, but that's what's going to be before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90123	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. A distinguished representative of Slaven Letica came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90124	Dear Mr. Vice President, I think it is very important not to repeat the situation since the last time colleagues from HNS and SDP publicly supported their colleague Krapec, and then did not come to the vote. We have before us the selection of nine judges of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court in the period ahead of us has an extremely important task ahead of it, and therefore I personally took the floor to support my colleague Krapac. As important as it is that in the Constitutional Court we have people who have civil integrity, who are honest people, it is important that we also have people who are based in knowledge. Professor Krapac doubtless is, because these days we are witnessing that one of the former presidents of the Constitutional Court is dilettantly performing in public compared to the Croatian diaspora's electoral rights. It is about Jadranka Crnić, who no longer performs in public as the former President of the Constitutional Court, but certainly the public sees him as such. Therefore, a man who has obviously not read anything in this area for years is creating a public confusion because all trends today are in the world that diaspora has civil rights and also the right to vote in a referendum. So I would personally like this House to support Professor Krapac, who is one of the most visible lawyers in Croatia, former Dean of the Law Faculty, member of our Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and not to repeat the situations that we are practically aware of every month. Last year, a scandalous decision was made, in fact, at the beginning of the year in the Constitutional Court, where it was approved by the congregations of stakeholders who have more than 95% of the participation in capital to rule out small shareholders, it was practically without any attention in this House and in Croatia, so I think the choice is Professor. A thief in some way a paradigm for future elections. And I finally think that the very way that we on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system have implemented a civilized hearing of candidates in some way has led to the situation that people who are going to report for such positions must count on both public and institutional accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90125	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90126	Here's the esteemed Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Finally, today we will be able to resolve this issue of the appointment of the Constitutional Court judge. Normally, as well as my colleague Slaven, I support the choice of Prof. Dr. Davor Krapca. He was my college professor, too. I think his work in the field of legal science in Croatia means both criminal procedural law and part two guarantees that Mr. Krapac will be able to act successfully. And it's also a good situation that today we'll only have on Mr. Professor's list. Davor Krapca because of the fact that Mr. Marko Babic gave up, but I still have to say that I am a little worried about this fact that only three candidates answered the call again. I'm a little concerned about the fact that we are now going to the selection of new, i.e. the replacement of 8 judges, so we might have to encourage some people who have legal experience, who have contributions in the legal field in Croatia, who are experts in their area to offer them a call, but I think that's the problem of one other nature why people don't come forward because they're always talking about so-called. a political deal. We remember the earlier elections of the Constitutional Court judges where it was publicly said that it was essentially not a crucial expertise, recognition in a certain part of the right in the election for the Constitutional Court judge, but a determination was a political deal, an agreement, at that time there were thoughts between HDZ and SDP, and we know the same situation when SDP was. What? ... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But we know what the situation was like in 2001 when it was also pure political trade and a deal without entering these parts. I must commend here and the board, in particular and fellow Flight, who was really with the issues that were agreed on the board and which were set up as such for the candidates, so that the board could get a better picture of all those who applied. I think we all need to take one good lesson out of this election because it's obvious that we're late with the election, and it wouldn't be good if something happened to us in the election of these eight, because we automatically leave the Constitutional Court without judges, and if it comes in at the time of parliamentary elections, so it would literally turn into a possible and constitutional crisis around that part, and here I plead that today means we define ourselves to choose Professor. Krapca for the Constitutional Court judge and that in the election of these 8 means we are also here today in this debate to all experienced legal experts who have the results in their field of action to apply to this committee's invitation to tender, to run for judges of the Constitutional Court, and to make our main criterion their work, their results in areas where they are, where they are working and where they are being followed, and not political agreement and not to go into the variant that some... Because they don't know what's going to happen to them in political waters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90127	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90128	Your Honor, Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the committee in this explanation of this proposal for a list of candidates to elect a Constitutional Court judge literally on the side, I don't know which third, fourth, that, on the occasion of a statement on candidates, it was pointed out that Prof. Dr. Krapac, a respected university professor with a number of published works, a great authority in the field he deals with, and he participated in the development of the Christmas Constitution, etc. The board also stressed that Dr. Marko Babić reached an enviable reach and published a series of scientific papers related to conversion and privatisation. So we should or should have made a statement in some way, now we hear it's dr. Babic gave up for one of the proposed candidates. Regardless of the constitutional deadlines, regardless of the kicks that took place in the vote before I don't know a month or a month and a half. This election that is now under way has shown great progress compared to '99. A year. Then, as some of my predecessors said, they traded everything in 16 mainly between HDZ, SDP and HSLS according to that logic to you, if you give us that and so on. Now when choosing these candidates for the Constitutional Court of Justice it wasn't, we can testify and that's certainly what's good, which is positive. On the one hand, The thief we see also participated in the construction of the Christmas Constitution. On the other hand, Mr Marko Babic published a series of works related to conversion and privatisation in this explanation. Perhaps it would be best if they both entered the Constitutional Court and in the context of this latest debate on the revision of the conversion that I 100% support, I just don't know how it's going to be, for example. Revising Todorovic's Agrokor who currently employs exactly 20 thousand 990 workers, starts from 10 thousand 210 in Konzum, over a thousand... in "Pik Vrbovac", a thousand 123 in "Jamnica" etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These 21 thousand workers, so many cooperatives, 50, 60 thousand family members, several hundred million kunas for advertising, etc. So you all think it's gonna work out, and there's only one question that should be asked all these people how you gentlemen got to the first million dollars, and the answer will always be in accordance with the law, and in the end it'll all go as the gentleman did, as he called Rajic with his "Dukata". ... It went well that way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He received 200 and so many million euros or whatever he had already taken that money to Switzerland and still told us if the government advised him to invest in what he would do, but we see neither the government gave him any useful advice nor he decided to return the money to the country. But let's let it go now. This, some pre-candidate, as I would say, procedure certainly marked the appearance of Mr. Letica and his eight questions, which he asked Dr. Babic, do you think the archives of the first Croatian President Franjo Tudjman to the International Court in The Hague should be opened? The answer, yes. Do you think Ante Gotovina is guilty? Answer, abstention. Are you in favor of a legal ban on abortion? The answer's no. Are you up for homosexual marriages? The answer's no. Okay. There you go, all right. Are you out of the physical insemination of single women? No, I don't. Would you return the property... Voulks deutscher. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Answer, according to the law. Itd, etc. So the speech could move to these areas as well. But I won't. What matters is, once again, I'm going to repeat that politics on this occasion as it was known to be an earlier case, mainly in '99. She didn't press me not to say, she didn't rape the MPs. When I talk about politics, then I clearly mean first of all the strongest. Now, if that's the way it's gonna be at the 9th month, when we have to pick out nine more judges, we'll see. It'll just... How much? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Eight. Eight, a day. It'll only show time now. '99. A year can't happen again. I will not say anything clearly about anyone, but some people were not to be found because of the credibility of this institution in the Constitutional Court. I want to believe that this election with candidate Mr. Krapco, Babic, in the end of Krapco, because his name will only be found on the ballot, confirms the maturity of Croatian democracy. Today, the Constitutional Court is certainly incomparably autonomous, mature, or I don't know how to say, a more credible institution than it was in '94. when deciding on the Statute of the County of Istria about the apartments in which they were so-called Military residents or when the president of the court was shaking when the late President Tudjman took the oath here at St. Mark's Square. In particular, this Constitutional Court, I would dare say, has earned my adulthood at the time when they made a decision to repay the debt to the pensioners. It is certainly one of the most important, bravest decisions of the institution, which these days de facto is placed ad act, and it is understandable to solve new pensioners. I think best of all about the new candidates. Since we have at least one candidate on our side if he's here, it won't be a problem to give him a vote, and I personally hold that probably both should meet at the Constitutional Court, one today, the other at the 9th month. But so far, there's only one place that's clear. And I'm afraid of exactly what all the predecessors said that somewhere in the 9th month if it hasn't started, there is a big trade that can end with another disgrace not only of Croatian politics but also of the Croatian Constitutional Court. That's exactly what a higher credibility of this House should avoid. And trust clearly in that institution and the judiciary as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90129	Thank you. He has a word, a replica of the esteemed representative Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90130	Here you go, Mr. Vice President. At first, I thought I'd react, but Mr. Cain made his own right. Since Mr. Marko Babic has given up in the meantime, we will only have today, so we will not choose secretly, but we will go public because it is only one candidate. But I also agree with this part of what counterpart Cain said and I call on Mr Babic, I think it would be good if the public were re-election for these eight judges, because certainly the person who has knowledge of the conversion and privatisation should be in the Constitutional Court. But I must also say here that I don't know what will happen to the Constitutional Court when we have a situation that out of the thousand and fifty-six cases that the state's audit has monitored, a thousand 481 has been identified as the illegality of this form or that form. But unfortunately, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the State's Attorney's Office has yet to rise up with a single complaint about advertising to nothing or to annul such unlawfully implemented implementation and privatisation. The only suggestion in this is given to my club, as and in what way it means to go into the advertising process to the zeroes. In other cases of milder forms of illegality go into the system of ownership certification. And then I must really say, look back at this part of the SDP's intellectual pocketing that now shows our HSP proposal on the 9th month press releases as its proposal. And they haven't even made that proposal yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90131	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90132	Yes, you can see Mr. Kovacevic what will happen. Nothing's gonna happen. No matter who's in this country at all today, let's say we can revise, I think I'm just taking it as a paradigm, I don't mean anything by it. Todoric's "Agrokor" or what's already called his company that currently employs 20 thousand 990 workers. That's ten thousand 210 employees of the Consum. A thousand 579 at PICK Vrbovac. A thousand and 123 at the Guarantee. A thousand and eighty-nine at White. 683 Star. 235 in "Agrillaguna" from Poreč. 303 at the PIC Sparrow. 186 in "Ledo" etc. It's with the cooperatives of 50,000 people. With family members, 100,000 people. So more or less, we watched, we read, we listened in the last few years, the workers simply fought in their companies that were ahead of bankruptcy and failure to come under Todorovic's patronage. These are companies that single out hundreds of millions of kunas for commercials, public ballots that can bring down the state by saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90133	Comrade Cain! Well, this isn't the agenda, it's not the agenda point, it's not the answer to your answer, it's not the reply to the replica. And if you don't get back on the subject, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90134	... [[/The speaker doesn't understand, off.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90135	Comrade Cain! I take your word. I take your word. Comrade Cain! Here's a seat. Your speech after warning is not about the subject. Well, I hope you're giving up on the Rules of Procedure, too, aren't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90136	Dear Mr. Vice President! Well, I don't think it's a good idea that in this assembly, regardless of the election's campaign of violations of the Rules of Procedure, the first thing to say is that it's completely out of the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90137	It is.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90138	And that doesn't make any sense. Mr. Cain! So it's not what you're saying that's the problem, it's what you're doing that's how you're destroying this House. You yourself, through a discussion like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90139	Thank you. I said it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Warned and took away Mr. Cain's word. The word has a respected representative, Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90140	Mr. Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90141	I'm sorry, I'm in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90142	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in No one, Mr. Jarnjak, is destroying the integrity of at least not from these benches that IDS agents are sitting in. If someone's destroying the integrity...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90143	It's not about that, Mr. Caine. It's not about... Injure Rules 210 to 214 because it has nothing to do with this measure that I have told you. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The word has been respected by the Vice President of the House, Mr. Mato Arlovic. [[What did you say?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90144	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First, I'd like to look back at a finding that has repeatedly repeated itself in the current part of the discussion, which is that we have one candidate. That's not true. We don't have one candidate. We have one remaining proposal from the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, but another candidate has also been delivered to this House, which meets all the conditions and is in the Assembly to decide on this. As a Committee, we have proposed two candidates as our proposal to choose from and deliver a third one along with it. It is a colleague of Labas who meets all formal legal requirements and in which the Parliament can also conduct a debate. Of course, on each one of us individually and of course based on both the views and our clubs, it's to identify who we're going to vote for. I will now repeat on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club and on my personal behalf what we had in the last vote when he was a fellow Krapac candidate. The SDP advocates' club and I personally opt for a vote for fellow Krapac for several reasons. The first ones are technically legal if you want to. We believe that he is the person who has come from the candidates, who has all met the conditions best and in this regard we consider him necessary to propose for the reason that he has proved himself in the profession by his scientific work and professional work, as well as by his public action in society. We must not forget that colleague Krapac is a longtime criminal law professor, a procedural law professor. We must not forget the fact that it is a university professor who has participated in a number of cases both domestic and international bodies in the making of legal regulations. He was also a member of our committees several times and made a huge contribution to Parliament's legislative activities. And the third thing we should also remind ourselves of. When it comes to working experience, colleague Krapac has an incomparably greater and professional and scientific work experience than the colleagues who have come forward, and in this respect they would certainly like to highlight the part in particular. The second part we would like to highlight is the need and structure of the Constitutional Court. The fact is that, in the Constitutional Court, according to the current assembly and composition of the Constitutional Court, there is simply a lack of a Constitutional Court judge who would in close view cover the area of criminal justice, criminal justice, part of our legal system. And in this respect, it is certain that such a top expert, a scientist who is very well equipped with enormous theoretical, practical and professional knowledge, would welcome the Constitutional Court and, in order to cover a particular area of expertise, an additional area in the Constitutional Court itself. The third thing we'd like to point out is the fact that this is actually the beginning of a change or better said election of the Constitutional Court judges. After this, it should be recalled that a public call for the selection of judges is already under way, another 8 judges of the Constitutional Court and we at the Club also support the idea of getting all the necessary data processed as soon as possible. Processes of the candidates reported in the tender so that proposals could actually be established and that the Assembly could be made known. We'd like to remind you that the situation is very interesting. At the 12th month, it seems to me to be the 7th 12th of these candidates, the deadline on which they were elected Judge of the Constitutional Court. And if we don't have elected judges of the Constitutional Court by then, especially if we don't have the necessary majority of the Constitutional Court judges to decide, to discuss the whole, not only will it come to a standstill in the work of the Constitutional Court, but it will happen that at the same time we have an election procedure, an election campaign as announced for the state council. And in such a situation, state elections, and in such a situation, a very serious issue arises in the conduct of the Constitutional Court at a time that can and should be addressed from the constitutional and legal aspect of the protection of electoral law. It is therefore important to try to choose by summer break, provided they meet the conditions and criteria required by the Constitutional Court Constitutional Law, the required number of judges of the Constitutional Court. If we can't have at least one major part, and then at the first session of the 9th month, we can choose the rest of the Constitutional Court judges in fact to solve this because of the work of the Constitutional Court and because of the political and legal and constitutional needs of this country. And the last thing I'd like... In the last vote for counterpart Krapac, SDP representatives were all those who had no other obligations they could and had to postpone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in that segment it should be recalled that it is a real shame that the vote then took place the day before it was usual on Fridays. Otherwise, if it had been Friday's vote, there would have been a lot more presence of SDP representatives than that... And the truth works, and especially because of fellow Letica who has no guilt here, why then the last time he was not chosen is the fact that there was a shooting of club discipline and discipline within the ruling party that agreed to support a fellow Krapac but could not implement it within his club. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One large part of the club's representatives voted against, and therefore not a colleague of Krapac was chosen then, which is, of course, constitutional, business and any other right both for individual parties and for representatives in this House. And there's nothing to be particularly angry about. The procedure has been renewed. A fellow Krapac has the opportunity to report and has shown that in this second procedure it meets far, far the best conditions. And according to us from the SDP as well as last time compared to the candidates of others who also met, good candidates, but in our opinion, he was as good as he is now. And that's why we vote it. I wouldn't be talking about this at all if my colleague Letica hadn't tried to accuse the SDP counseling club of actually discrediting him and accusing him of guilt not only why his colleague Krapac wasn't elected last time, but why he had to renew the procedure and now be in a situation where we have to choose it again. Comrade Letica knew about these things as well as I did about what happened in the ruling party. And I think if he had already done it then he should have done it, unless he is now being courted by ruling foreigners for known reasons motivated by the Croatian Parliament's entry elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90145	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90146	Proposal for a list of candidates for the selection of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect Professor Davor Krapac as Constitutional Court Judge. I note that the election requires most of the total number of MPs, Article 6(7). The Constitutional Court Act. Please, let's get on with it! Please vote! The result? With 101 for and one abstentioned Davor Krapac was elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90147	We're going to the next item on the agenda. 16. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on crafts, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 570 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Economy, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on European Integration. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Tajana Kesic Sapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90148	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Experience in the developed countries of Europe suggests that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are drivers of the development of the overall economy, which, with less engagement of financial resources, deliver better financial results and record a steady increase in employment. It accounts for 99% of the total Croatian economy. The craftsmanship in Croatia is a traditional economic activity that has become more and more pronounced in recent years and has a significant impact on overall economic development. The data from over 260 thousand craft employees and 105 thousand and 31 active crafts talk about a respectable figure. Data also talk about the trend of opening production crafts. In addition to the difficulties associated with craftsmanship for many years, the same has been maintained thanks to a series of encouraging measures, favourable business development and social environment. Our economic reality sets the development of craftsmanship in line with those issues which at the moment require enhanced social care, especially because of the growing role in achieving faster employment and self-employment, and therefore have joined the amendments to the Law on crafts. The objective of the amendment and addition of the Law on crafts is to enable natural persons to carry out their activities as a domestic activity or a secondary occupation that would limit the predetermined amount of total income, 10 gross average monthly wages. Then lay down simpler conditions for access to the master's exam, and as a condition for passing exams for persons with a final relevant medium professional training, a two-year working experience is defined. For persons with inadequate secondary or school training, determines three years of work experience and for persons with lower professional qualifications, ten years of work experience. Further allow the granting of licences, a licence for receiving students to practice as many economic operators as possible. So it is proposed that, in addition to craftsmen and companies and other economic operators, legal persons can receive students in practice. In addition, it is specified that persons with a master’s test and three years’ experience in youth education may also participate in persons with a final relevant medium professional training, three-year work experience and a basic knowledge test on the teaching of scientists. Then, the aim of this law is to extend the conditions for which non-compliance with craftsmen and legal persons is withdrawn from the license to perform apprenticeships. The establishment of surveillance over the teaching segment carried out in the work process will ensure a better and safer education for young people. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on crafts will allow a wider number of individuals, especially pensioners, to carry out activities by laying down simpler conditions for access to the Master's exam, will speed up and achieve better quality implementation of the policy of development of crafts and employment. The continuous upgrade of the education system and the regulation of the control obligation to issue licences for the practical part of the teaching will ensure better quality education for the needs of craftsmanship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90149	Thank you. Do the motions, the committee's rapporteurs want to? The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. Here you go. Dear Representative Pukleš.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90150	Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the proposer, representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on the Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 60th session held on 13 June 2007 discussed the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on crafts submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 31 May 2007. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final draft law as a parent working body. In his opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the positive difference between the shut-downs and the open crafts was 2 thousand and 500 revolutions. In the text of the final draft of the law, the conclusions of this Committee and most of the observations of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce were introduced. This law simplifies the conditions for access to the master's exam, enables the issuing of permits for the practical part of teaching to legal persons who meet the prescribed conditions, enables natural persons to carry out their activities as domestic work and secondary occupation, and provides for better quality education for the needs of craftsmanship. Following this without debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90151	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. I watched carefully what was happening with the amendment of this law and when I analyzed why he was so late, it surprised me. Namely, I came across a comment in a week dealing with business last year and said in 2006 we should adopt amendments to the Small Economy Act, we should amend the Law on Trade and should also adopt amendments to the Law on Cooperatives. Here we have today the changes to the Law of Rotation, which is actually at the last session of this House. It's been four years, and it's particularly interesting that the amendment to this law came the last day of the procedure after the 6-month period, because we had it in our reading at Assembly 1.12 last year, and here's the date that we have here with the amendment proposal, it's actually 31.5. As far as the interest in this craft sector is concerned, we have probably shown that we have not responded well enough, that we have not responded quickly enough because these changes are important too, changes are important which obviously are important and we will not bring about in some other sectors. We keep repeating the same numbers. We repeat the same figures as FINA records 12 billion kunas of blockades, which is exactly the most craftsmen. We keep saying that 20 and a few thousand people work in that blocked sector, and it's about 4 to 5 thousand craftsmen when. We keep talking about the need to strengthen the Law of Turnings once and for all, especially in relation to the Law of Law. The old question in Croatia is how the Law on craftsmanship says that a craftsman can match the very property he has entered into the crafts, but as far as the Executive Law is concerned, if someone wants to reach into the other assets that the craftsman has, of course, it is possible. It's possible to confiscate his house, it's possible to confiscate all his property, not just what he put into the crafts. We have not strengthened this through this law, nor has it been implemented through other laws, and it is directly related to craftsmanship. What we haven't solved behind this sector is also the guessing of great ones. I think that especially in the last few days, the big economy has huge advantages over small ones. They're the last in the payment chain. The state says it is not late to pay, but all tenders are directed towards large ones. The craftsman is the last in the chain and if possibly the state is not late in payment, and if it pays the big one on the giro-count, the question is when will he get it especially if there is no driver who is the mediator between the big and the little craftsman. They're certainly the last in the payment chain, and we pretend we don't see it. We pretend we don't see the state running late, but at the same time if a late craftsman then he pays a high tight 15% interest. And what's worse, if the state is bound by a craftsman, at the same time he has no compensation for the state, because the state does not agree to compensation and regularly collects interest and even puts in a blockade of craftsmen to whom the state is and owes. As for the HItro project, that project has produced some results, we have a larger number of crafts and a larger number of company creations. However, the tragedy of the HITRO project is that they are also helping those who have brought their company into bankruptcy, who have brought their company into a blockade, who are obliged to fellow craftsmen and even who are in debt to the state. So the HITRO service helps those who are bad, those who are cheaters to start a new company and that they can do the same thing to the economy sector again, to their business partners and to the state. What we haven't solved through this law, and elsewhere, is that the craftsman doesn't have the same rights as the unemployed. If a craftsman loses his job, if he has to close his shop at the Employment Service, he's just not waiting for anything. It's the same, and if he has to go to sick leave, he has no right. There is a big difference between employees in the craft sector and the rest of the economy. The HSS has already talked about it here. Mother crafts don't have the same rights as mothers who are employed by companies and institutions. So this is a good shift through the amendments to the law, but the area and the greatest interest of craftsmen is focused on the questions I was talking about. Our mandate will pass, and unfortunately we haven't regulated it. I especially warn that we here in the Parliament two and a half years ago passed the law according to the amendments to the law that allowed the sale of state-owned business space to craftsmen. However, the government's regulation should have been adopted for this. Here, after two and a half years of this regulation, there are no benefits in buying business spaces simply for craftsmen. See, that's the relationship I'm talking about, which I think should be different. When we look at the ratio of large ones, we also see that large trade chains can open their stores without a valid license. We can see that some large hotels can also work without a valid permit. But if that happened to a craftsman, I assure you 15 inspections would be in 15 minutes and would be closed for at least 15 months. As far as schooling is concerned, I see neither in this proposal nor in other accompanying acts nor in other measures, stimulating deficits. Even the sparrows on the branch know what we lack in Croatia. The sparrows on the branch know what professions and titles craftsmen could hire tomorrow, but we in vocational schools are studying professions that go directly to the Department of the Unemployment and are basically there for a few years. What should also be taken into account, and this could also be done in this law, is the role of the chamber. Here I think of the Croatian Chamber of crafts which I consider too much to take away the craftsman, and too little to give. These fees paid directly to the Croatian Chamber of crafts and associations are too high, but I don't see the effects, I don't see the effects, and I'm quite sure that the expectations of craftsmen and the needs of Croatian society to cut it down, to split it in half. That's why we suggested that when we first read this law, we assign a trade register to the Chamber of crafts so that they could make some money on the market for their business. I believe that at least a third of the business in the near future, the Croatian Chamber of crafts should be directly acquired on the market in order to help its members create production in order to lead them to fairs, in order to make contacts with foreign customers according to the model of some chambers in the environment and according to the rules of conduct for all trade associations in the European Union. Here you see, this is a necessary step to reduce the giving of craftsmen to the craftsman's chamber and at the same time make the chamber more efficient, make it more efficient and treat the sector better. I am also dissatisfied with the fact that we lost through the amendments to the law the possibility of reinvested profits, i.e. income freeing the payment of sales taxes. Here we simply don't talk about it, or we talk about it, but the government's proposal is gone, there is no proposal and no competent ministry. I would be very happy if we had also received the Security of Entrepreneurial Claims Act before this ministry. At first glance, perhaps an unusual name of the law, but I assure you that it exists in the European Union, it defines a different role towards the believers compared to the debtors. It is known that our debtors have the advantage, it is known that the procedures take too long and it is known that the craftsmen are the most likely to suffer in these procedures. As for support for craftsmen this year, we're monitoring advertising videos on TV, 120 million kunas will go total for small entrepreneurship. In other words, it's about a thousand kunas if we divide it into a number of crafts, which is like 4 kilometers of the road already famous, which we also talked about in the Parliament, the fast roads around Zadar. Total craftsmanship and all small entrepreneurs in Croatia will receive equivalent value for 4 km of fast road or that is 1 km of Zagreb-Macelj highway. It's our behaviour towards this sector that we expect it to be a generator of development, employment and I don't know what not. In addition to craftsmen, the fact that credit lines that have been successfully removed for 6,7 years have been done with local self-government is not a good thing. However, we will now have microcredit, but this cannot compensate for about 1 billion euros that have come to this sector for investments back 5.6 years. This Law tries to resolve eternal dilemmas, which is the introduction of domestic work and production activities, i.e. secondary occupations and service activities. This is where the question is, is it a social category? I can consider the arguments of applicants who say e pensions are small in Croatia so we will allow pensioners to work and make such a profit. It is likely so for those others who would like to gain slightly greater income through their domestic work. Does this Law serve as a means to collect home budgets and regulate it by law? Absolutely not. Is this how you're going to reduce the gray economy? I don't think it's gonna shrink. Well, every smart craftsman will close the craftsman and move on to secondary activity. So why should he pay large contributions and lose in a marketing game because he who performs a secondary occupation and he who engages in service activities will pay much less taxes and contributions and will not be able to be a competitive craftsman who is in the system. I'm sure he won't. One plumber who will pay every year for all obligations in relation to his colleague to whom it will be an auxiliary activity cannot survive on the market as well as a number of other professions, I am merely stating this example. As far as the schooling system is concerned, there's also one big dilemma of the other. Do you make it easier to pass a master exam? Croatia swears it wants to become a state of knowledge and I find it unacceptable to lower the level of education for craftsmanship. We believe that the chamber in the last 10 years has done a lot for vocational education, we have also received a number of assistance from the European Union, but here we are now allowing someone who has graduated from elementary school to pass one exam and acquire the calling of masters. So whether it's worth going to school for 4 years, whether it's worth waiting for the next 3, 4 years to pass a master's exam, which is a total of 7, 8 years, or simply after primary school, to open a craft and in the 10th year pass a master's exam. I assure you that this is the second one that's worth more because you lose 4.5 years if changes in the law allow you to make such a shortcut. We swear that we would like to be a learning society, that we would like to be learning is a basic motto of education. We would like to join the European Union, but that is why we should not agree to the degradation of the acquired level of knowledge and skills achieved by integration for learning. These changes to the law certainly degrade the craftsman, we expect quality from him, we expect appropriate skills from him, but we expect knowledge from him. In this way, the craftsman will acquire skills, but he will not certainly gain knowledge through the amendments to this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90153	Correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Sopčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In a series of incorrect allegations, I'd only make one right. It is not true that the adoption of this Law will not reduce the number of unemployed and it is incorrect and the claim that craftsmen will turn into secondary activities. First, the opening of parallel activities is regulated by total income, so the total income is 10 average salaries and no serious craftsman will allow himself to switch to a secondary activity. It's nebulosis.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90155	Thank you. On behalf of the club HSP, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90156	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. So we at the HSP Club, unlike the proposings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, do not see that this will be a major step towards the adoption of this Law on Legal Position and the status of craftsmen. On the one hand, on the one hand, in Croatia, we have been declaring trade for years and we say that craftsmanship with small and medium-sized enterprises, alongside agriculture, should be an economic basis for the development of our country, for the development of the economy, for the possibility of solving or opening new jobs, for the employment of the unemployed. But on the other hand, we have a situation that craftsmen are in more than an unfavourable position because the state on the one hand, municipalities, cities and on the other hand, and I'm not talking about a variety of lobbys at the end. They take such measures as to essentially destroy craftsmanship, prevent free entrepreneurship. And we have unfortunately come to a situation that many traditional crafts in Croatia have died. Many traditional crafts in Croatia have died because we do not use other countries' experiences as an example, go to Prague, go to the Czech Republic and see how and how they have made an important move, an important step in their craftsmanship for all their traditional craftsmanship. And we're still here at the level of declarative speaking of how craftsmanship needs this, it needs that. Let's just take the variant, let me give you an example of a craftsman in the markets of the City of Zagreb who, in the 1990s, used to pool funds for the construction of markets. You money, markets nothing and eventually everything from the market. And they're trying to exercise their rights, to resolve their rights. Unfortunately, the rule of law is asleep. The city of Zagreb says, it was the former government, HDZ, it made contracts, the state's attorney's office gives USKOK, USKOK essentially has done nothing yet and people are ahead of the situation that will drive them out. And the merger system was meant by principle, you give the money, we will give nothing and eventually it's all owned by the market. And then those markets will go to concessions like that, and they'll get tycoons. So, the problem is that still that relationship with craftsmen in Croatia from the former system is still current. We have to admit it. Because what everyone in the former system was looking at with suspicion, with that part, that's not it. And now he's looking at himself at this moment, like he's a tycoon, like he was involved in conversion and privatisation. And the thing is very simple. It is necessary to go with a new Law on craftsmanship that will firstly simplify and give the possibility of a simpler opening of crafts and all of those interests that are missing in Croatia, all of these crafts, give from the state of stimulation, go to a domestic bank that will have feelings and which will be in the function of craftsmen, not these banks that we know and how they are converted and privatised and which are not in the interest to encourage crafts in Croatia. Why? Because it is in their interest to encourage only imports of goods from countries from where the bank is from, and to our residents, Croatian citizens will be credited, and that is over 100 billion kuna. And that's how we get into this unfavourable relationship. On the other hand, take just what is our tax system according to craftsmen, which is all the documentation must have, how and how? Instead of going the easy way. All those who encouraged craftsmanship went with the measures of flat-rate taxation after establishing the criteria and limits as to how and how to implement them. Watch out, all documentation, bookkeeping and paperwork should be carried out by a craftsman who has one employee and craftsman who has a significant number of employees. Here, these are the things that craftsmen ask to simplify their way of working, to go on a flat-rate taxation so that he has time to devote himself more to it. And normally, we hope that, within this and the issues of public procurement and everything else, we will manage to put craftsmen in an equal position, because unfortunately they are grinding these various lobbys of construction, banking and other lobbys, because in any competition there are third or fourth hands to get to work. And then finally, we come into a situation as much as the account of craftsmen in Croatia is blocked at this time. With the state then claiming that she, where they were all involved if these were jobs which meant she was an investor as a state, the state paid for everything. But unfortunately, someone here took a pin, and the question is if they'll ever pay him. This measure, which I must also look at, introduce domestic work and secondary occupation, says it will allow a wider number of individuals especially retired to carry out their activities. There is essentially a measure the government had in its time in the fight against the gray economy. Now, who's going to be the subject of fighting the gray economy here, so pensioners, we know what their incomes are, people who do "not get paid" and everything else, instead of going after those who stole Croatia in the conversion and privatisation, who were found to have stolen and to establish a model of the rule of law. So these aren't good solutions. They are only a small, small shift in creating better conditions for the position of legal and status craftsmen in Croatia. And we can't be satisfied with such legal decisions. We advocate a new, comprehensive Law on craftsmanship, which will have, most importantly, to simplify the possibility of opening the crafts, simplify the tax system means a flat tax and introduce measures encouraging with domestic banks for the development of craftsmanship, and above all, the crafts that Croatia traditionally had, and these crafts today are calming us down. And most of all, this section is related to the law of law and to all these situations. Now there's been an expression of what, I kept my mouth shut for ten minutes because I knew what he was going to cause, law enforcement. He's only in the function of banking and money lobbys and various others, not in the function of those he's meant to be. Let's say, how is a craftsman from some concert big man to whom this one is due? And he has to pay all those commitments to the state. He's done business, he can't, the services can't get money. According to this law, there is nothing he can do. But that's why the big company, but that's why the bank or some other institution, including the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, including the state institutions, and the Croatian Health Insurance Office, are finely going to "slight people" and craftsmen on top. So let's make a legal position and finally move from word to deed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90157	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90158	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State, Well, the point of the law is the fact that natural persons in crafts can perform together, family members can help a craftsman perform craftsmanship. Here, finally that provision. The Act amending and supplementing the Law by adopting it aims to enable natural persons to carry out their activities as domestic or secondary occupations that would be restricted to the predetermined height of the total reception. Set simpler conditions for access to the master's exam. All right. Make it possible to issue licences, licenses to perform the practical part of teaching to legal persons, cooperatives, institutions. Establish control over the teaching segment. And that's okay. Introducing or introducing domestic work, a secondary profession, will allow a wider number of individuals, especially pensioners, to carry out their activities, and I may also be because I come from a 5% unemployment area in Buzet if there is one percent. I'm just not afraid of one norm like that. For some ends, that's for sure and good. But no matter what the craftsmanship is, I have the impression that every authority around that craftsman is orbiting like a cat around hot porridge. Sometimes I can tell, so I'll also tell this opportunity that many craftsmen are in a more difficult position and from the workers who work with them. A craftsman as you know fits all his assets, a worker clearly works. Absolutely a worker needs 100% protection, 110%, but it needs to be helped in some way by that craftsman. It's not that simple. Work, pay wages, obligations, contributions as people sometimes think. You need to find yourself in that situation and then judge those people. And that's why in this imprecise market game where the big ones have absolute advantage and they've gained it through conversion, privatization to a craftsman, or that small entrepreneur, it's worth helping. I'm glad he said something about that audit about Pero. I will also certainly raise my hand to that law, but to be honest, I don't believe it much, because there's no one in this country to ask big and successful how they got to the first million dollars. He would certainly say by law, and they did come by law, but the law was amoral. And what about today, for example, companies that employ thousands and thousands of people? I'm not imputing anything. I'm just, I don't know. I want to say one example of what with the workers racing to take over, I don't know, Agrokor, whether it's workers from PIC Vinkovci, PK Belje, PIC Vrbovac, Agro lagoons from Poreč, Zvijezda, Jamnica, Leda and so on. Well, in the end, you have a company that employs 20 thousand 990 workers. He pays the advertisers tens or hundreds of millions of kunas, or I don't know what, and if he shakes, the state will shake. And the same thing is with someone else. Well, we all know the same at last that these management loans were immoral but they created these tycoons and many of the heads of state once entered the ownership structure. Of some Istrian companies, not to mention them, and by justice, God should also undo those conversions. But none of this is going to happen. But let me get back to this matter. If anyone wants something to happen, it's Damir Cain. Let me get back to this matter now. In 2003 there were 100,000 and 61 registered craftsmen, a craft pardon with 138 thousand and 582 workers. In 2005, we had 105 thousand 393 registered crafts with 150 thousand 943 employees. With the free professions last year, 258, 678 workers were employed. So in free professions or crafts. How's Istria? No matter how much jobs we have in 2007 than in 1991 and less unemployment than in 1991, the following data are interesting. In 2001, there were 9,000,223 unemployed in Istria. 2005. 6 thousand 374. In 2007, about 5 thousand 500. In 1991, 8000 883 people were employed in our craft. 2005. 18 grand, 919. What's that? Why there was such a jump of nearly 10 grand and some of the employees in the crafts. On the one hand, some big systems have come into trouble. Work, conversion, loss of the ex-Yugoslavia market, clearing. Something by nature's law always fails. New technologies have emerged and have led to the number of employees from the so-called so-called the social sector suddenly turned into a craftsman. In business entities in Istria, the number of employees decreased. From 1991 to today, the craft has increased by 10 thousand. The same thing is in Croatia. The number of employees in Croatia decreased by 200 000 in business entities from 1991 to 2007. A in the crafts, i.e. Free activities with 129 thousand people working in crafts and leisure activities in Croatia in 1991 were employed by 258 thousand 678 people last year. Or we have that increase by 129 thousand 678. And that's actually the point. And that's why we should help that craftsman. How? The business space that Mr. Pecek was talking about, which is what I'm talking about in every opportunity today, which is social property. Let's sell that space to a craftsman. No peasants without land, no craftsmen without space. In this country, everyone got something. I don't know, the electors of the HDZ government or the socialist directors of the factory, the workers got fired but come on and the apartments. The peasants, if not the Istrians, have come to the ground. And craftsmen just nothing. So if we want to help a craftsman we should also have this VAT from 30 days to pay, that deadline should be relocated or translated into 60 days. For a craftsman of states or for a craftsman of states, some large systems should also be saved. Because without the big systems, there's no small craftsman. Why should this little craftsman or this little businessman be strengthened? That the next day someone in this country who's earned everything by their work can deal with those who've acquired everything they have from conversion and privatisation. He needs to be followed with understandable loans. A small economy, again, will take that Istrian example out of IDA, a regional association has withdrawn some 500 million kunas. From HABOR another 302 million kuna. That's over 850 million kuna. I'm not talking about loans from commercial banks. Today, it is no longer necessary to even participate in the interest craft by the state or local community, but some new forms of assistance should be designed. From the reduction of the municipal fee, from the regulation of the zone, from the provision of guarantees, from tax cuts, and from the introduction to the artisan craftsmen, that the profit is released which is clearly reincarnated, the monumental rent should be deleted, eased, and administrative barriers, allow people to build if it is normal in accordance with the terms of the arrangement of the space, in this direction the new law goes, reduce red tape. The state should also make fair public tenders clear, not for the drivers to recalibrate these small entrepreneurs. And what's especially important. You finally have to resolve retirement status, or subsidies, I don't know, they're important, but they're not judgments. But pensions for that category of people who are almost embarrassing under every criterion and common sense need to be resolved immediately. Corruption needs to be reduced. Corruption is the biggest obstacle to business. A big one can get to the president of the state without a problem, to the mayor, to the minister, and a little craftsman has to wait in line for every request he wants to make to someone. Otherwise, let me just say that for the economic crime in 2002, people were treated for 2 billion 670 million kuna in this country, 2006 for a billion of 120 million kuna. Someone might say that according to that statistic, it's moving for the better. And now I don't know much better. I read somewhere that some are pushing for devaluation. Well, God forbid that happens. We'll bury the little ones. Exports won't increase. If anyone might benefit again it's an Istrian economy that has 3 billion kunas of tourism, so they tell us, which I doubt and which has 1 billion dollars of exports and a billion dollars of imports. But that Croatia on the other hand has an external debt problem, because only this year should return 7.8 billion euros of which is 500 million interest. And another question is craftsmanship. It's indifference. Something that guesses now, say, "Feral." And that state must have a mechanism, not to block that kid, but to help him, to keep that company alive the next day. What are we doing? We clearly charge him 15 percent of the interest right away, we're doing errands instead of somehow offering this little craftsman a solution to save himself. And what do we get? The ruin of one of them pulls another. For example. "Lenac" is a country damaged by 600 million kuna. But small co-operatives still for 500 million kunas, another 500 million kuna. The state with the 600 million kuna will somehow come to an end. But many who are in that 500 million simply lost everything, and without their property. And that is why it is necessary to really do everything to avoid liquidation, bankruptcy, bankruptcy because of this in the end, both entrepreneurs and their family and state and co-operatives, i.e. partners and employees. So this law offers some new solutions, and that should be supported. But craftsmanship and a small economy, I believe, should be treated differently. Why? Once again, I'm going to say a great employer who's acquired everything through conversion and privatisation, and they're usually like that, the president of the state and the government and the ministers are coming on his feet, and I don't know the mayors. Little craftsman I said waits in line. Even worse, he's waiting to be recalibrated in some way. The big ones are blackmailing the government, and the little ones are rackets and the ones that should protect them. The laws are written for who? For the little ones. And the solutions to themselves offer through a clear ministry or I don't know who the big ones are. And now you need to turn that logic around and support that craftsman. Why? Because the only one who's got everything he's got is with his work and he's the only one who can deal with the big one the next day. I claim it's more important than a revision I unfortunately don't believe in, which I'm 100% for because I don't know how it's gonna happen. And craftsmen aren't the past, they're the future. I said, in the last 11 years in this country, those craftsmen and those who work for free activity have about 130 thousand more people. Every six employees in this country are craftsmen. And that's something to be respected. It's not just the traditional occupations we might be missing today. The question is, can you even live on it today? They're a lot more than that. And therefore, it cannot help craftsmen in one year to realize the value as my previous ones said building a mile of highway from Zagreb to Macelj or 4 km of road from Zadar to their airport. It can't even take note of these cosmetic changes, but really one logic should change towards them as a whole. I want to believe that as time moves away, more and more respect will be given to the position of these small craftsmen, because I repeat, they are the future and in terms of employment. It's hard to hire a son or daughter somewhere today. You are forced that if you can do it in any way, even if you sell 500 or 1,000 squares of some country, you can open up someone's place of employment. And that's why we have this jump with 129,000 employees in crafts and leisure activities in '91. to 258 thousand 678 in 2006 or that increase by 129 thousand 678 in, employees in crafts and leisure activities. All in all, little shifts in the Law of Turning welcome. And it should be supported. But let's not keep running away from this craftsmanship or running around like a cat around hot porridge but also, in particular, and really help with the real necessary changes, which is a pension system, it's a clear possibility of helping them in the case of a business crash and understandable in that business space.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90159	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90160	Well, colleague Cain said that this year, 7 billion and 800 are coming in, which is the wrong data, which is the wrong information. On page 185 of my book "Let Over the Coward's Nest" this year, 5 billion 086m euros will be charged, of which is only for interest rate 737m. But from 207 to 213, it comes to the charge of 21 billion HRK 566 million, Mr. President of the Parliament. So it won't be pleasant for the President of the Parliament, and even less for the Prime Minister when such credit obligations have to be paid to all governments, so also Matesha's Government, and Racan's Government and Sanader's Government, unfortunately, and the government of the future centre run by Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90161	Thank you. The second amendment, the honourable representative of Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90162	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, as usual, Agent Cain in... He mentioned that laws are written for young people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's incorrect, that the laws are written for both large and small, but the rules dictate the rules of the game including the commercial lobby, the import lobby, monetary etc., etc. Laws are written among other things so the kid doesn't grow up. Unfortunately, this is what the practice has shown so far, and this shows practice now. That applies, of course, to craftsmen. That shows reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90163	HDZ club, respected representative Ivana Sučec Trakostanec. Injury of Rules of Procedure Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90164	Injury of the Rules of Procedure in the context of Articles 209 and 214 and in connection with a incorrect statement by Mr Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90165	Thank you very much. Please sit down. You have a warning. Thank you. Here you go. ... Don't make fun of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90166	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike previous speakers and other clubs, the Croatian Democratic Community Club does not share an opinion on the state of craftsmanship of which there have been more words than the law itself until now, and neither in the consequences of this Law will produce for those to which it applies, which is to repeat the craftsmanship in which about a quarter of the employees in the Republic of Croatia are working for now, in which a significant part of the social product is being realized and where different rules exist than in other parts of the economy and sasam, it is impossible to compare the situation in the economy in different branches, and in those who make up large businesses, because they all work together and co-operating together are the total economy of Croatia and, of course, that crafts and craftsmen such as they had all the time and in socialism have an even greater meaning in this country, and we hope that evolution is much better than the revolution, and that all of which the government has achieved through the last year's economy would be able to take over the past. So, the entrepreneur himself determines whether he will report his activity as a trade that falls under certain laws and by certain accounting standards so that there is much being said here that is not even true. So, craftsmen pay VAT only when they charge their bills, craftsmen issue F2 accounts, so today the craftsmen have the possibility that for 200 kunas how much the craftsman costs in one day using and crafts to register his activity, the craftsmen will take effect on this Act and of course refined text, which supports and the club of the Croatian Democratic Community that they can all manage more easily in these few amendments. Therefore, they will be able to do even easier business by consummating and respecting, of course, Croatian laws as well as everyone else. I must say here, therefore, on behalf of all those colleagues of our mayors, mayors and mayors of municipalities who together with the Government create an atmosphere of entrepreneurial climate, create benefits for craftsmen in their local environments, and it is not true that municipalities, cities and counties are working to destroy crafts. However, through the various reliefs they give and through municipal fees, through industrial zones, through the incubators' affairs, the creation of new crafts is encouraged, the work of new craftsmen is encouraged, and this proves the number of newly reported crafts that can be measured over a few years to millions and where we have repeated in the last few years for the first time a positive difference. So we have a hundred, or hundreds of thousands reported, we have a thousand and 200 revolutions more open than checked out. So that part also shows a positive trend and all those measures that the Government has made through a series of small steps with a major shift. Therefore, they cannot agree to compare the investment of 120 million directly in the economy from education to the different return on capital investments and everything else with the construction of the road, because investment in the road is also an investment in craftsmen. These roads are also driven by craftsmen, so they will deliver their products faster, faster to exchange all other information. Therefore, investment in the road is also an investment in Croatian craftsmen and Croatian Democratic Community and its club supports therefore and building roads and, of course, investment in crafts. And I will now end up going back to the law that the Committee on European Integration says without notice is quite in line with the positive regulations of the European Union and our obligations towards the Stabilisation and Association Pact, and I am also pleased that, since the first reading, we have given thanks to the promoter a series of objections which we have made here, and we have received them from the Croatian Chamber of crafts where a number of new powers have been given to Croatia, the ability to control and participate, therefore in all those procedures and education, licensing or obtaining licences when someone does not meet the conditions, and therefore this Law has made it quite clear and defined. So we can open up here a debate, but all here is said is the subject of other laws. In this respect, almost complete legislation should be amended in order for craftsmen to agree otherwise on everything we have spoken about, but the existing laws are regulated that the Croatian Chamber of crafts is mandatory, and of course there are a number of different models in Europe, whether combined, whether it is voluntary, but with us it is what it is. And therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community believes that the Ministry of Economy, or Government, has established a register of craftsmen through this year by defining the home number of craftsmen, therefore as their identification number, has established 107 places in the entire country where the highly trained chamber, which can therefore provide information to all those who need it, can lead quality and qualified administrative procedures, so that the most important thing of all is that money that is being collected is back in craftsmanship, that it is about 40 million kuna a year and that it would not be good if we now have this well-organised quality system to say so, to demonstrate and reorganize in the Croatian Chamber of crafts, where, of course, it would not be in a sufficiently good way, nor could be done these jobs, nor would that money be returned to crafts as the case so far. And if that was very good as an idea, then it could have been Mr. Pecek after me, so you spent that term when you were the minister of this small economy and entrepreneurship, and then it would've already worked and it would've shown if it was better than what it is now. The Croatian Democratic Community therefore believes that the register should remain where it is in accordance with existing rules. Therefore, we are pleased to point out once again that the institute of domestic work and secondary occupation is being introduced, to determine the conduct of tied crafts and to introduce a medium professional ready to carry out them, to introduce a new regulation which defines both the traditional and artistic crafts, to finally introduce the Institute of the Right of Use of Space if necessary to perform the same craft, that the conditions are added to the appropriate technical arrangements for laying down and passing the master's examination, to speak and protect industrial design, to regulate, according to the new Construction Laws, what applies to the regulation of space and those requirements that need to be met, that, as a basis for carrying out domestic work and secondary occupation, the introduction of approvals that were not so far gone, and therefore, there will be control, that there is, of course, at the entry in the central registers. But to introduce the Court of Honor in Croatia, therefore, a craft chamber that will expand and tighten the conditions for the withdrawal of the licence to those who abuse the Institute of crafts or who do not comply with the regulations. We also do not believe that extending the possibility that someone with low professional training who has been doing his job for ten years will therefore be able to access the master's exam, that it will be a reduction in the quality of doing that craft, or that it will be at the expense of the quality of the product or service for the end-user. We just think it's one relief that will actually regulate the existing reality. Nothing new because it's already happening. And that there will be a greater number of people in that area who will take advantage of that possibility and which I, we, therefore, claim and reduce the field and work for the grey economy will increase the number of jobs. And also because the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, with the previously obtained opinion of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and with the consent of the Ministry of Economy, are three institutions, the Chamber of Commerce, the two ministries, so that the master school will be well formed, because it is therefore in line from the establishment to its business, it is controlled and we do not see that this will lower the level of those who will be able to obtain a license in the craft. And so, in any case, I repeat once again, we are pleased that the motioner has adopted a series of remarks, and those remarks that have not been adopted, of course we hold that in some future time, following the life that is taking place in Croatia and in this part, will be able to be updated because no law is, of course, always speaking the Holy Scriptures, and that, therefore, by seeing new trends and entering the European Union, new opportunities for working in craftsmanship will be revealed and that this segment of society, which is very important and only in collaboration with the great, can the overall economy of the state develop to the satisfaction of both craftsmen and their users. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90167	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Željko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90168	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that this government has introduced the Trade Register because it has been present electronically since 2002. It is incorrect for craftsmen to have a home number, because here, along with Article 12, the birth number of craftsmen is just being introduced as an identification mark of the crafts which the colleague should have read. And it is incorrect, that it will allow craftsmen to become master craftsmen with primary school to improve the education system. The other way around. I think it's against the government's policy on compulsory high school education.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90169	Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word on this subject. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word on this subject. Dear Representative Vladimir Steng. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90170	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. As an introduction to the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Turnings, I would also like to think that there is something to be pointed out and pointed out. In the City of Zagreb, there is certainly an art and craft museum in the representative building. Collections of similar content exist in other museums throughout the Republic of Croatia. They exist and are possible because the craft is certainly an art craft, one of the historical fluids and the gains of these spaces that should be emphasized, are not since yesterday. However, it is perfectly normal and understandable that time does its part. One major part of the traditional crafts and not only the artistic ones simply die. The reason is countless. From the lack of interest of young people or young people, the inability to make fast and large profits, and that is how it is sometimes interpreted and justified, unregulated rules regarding teaching, and I don't know everything, to the question from whom to learn these skills at all. But if the whole thing, the whole problem puts a little bit different, let's say it's a little bit more elastic, there's a chance of resuscitating something that's unquestionably and certainly calmed down. Relatively simple solutions, therefore, to more elastic regulation solutions, the whole situation can be greatly improved. In 1993, it was amended and completed twice in '96. and 2001. In the sense of the law, twists are tied, privileged twists. And they can be performed by natural persons if they meet the general conditions. The law also allows for the seasonal performance of crafts up to six months a year, which is particularly significant for some areas and activities. Of course, the law also prescribes a way of training for work in craftsmanship in the education system, which separates education in the vocational and general educational section. The law also determines the organization of the chamber system. The application of the law has shown, she warned of shortcomings that conditionaled on changes and additions now proposed. The proposed amendments and additions would allow natural persons to carry out their activities as domestic or secondary occupations, with a certain limit on the amount of total receipts. They would allow simpler conditions of access to the master's exam depending on previously acquired professional equipment. It would allow for the establishment of surveillance over the learning segment in the work process in order to achieve safer and better-quality learning. Domestic employment and secondary occupations would extend the number of natural persons who would carry out certain activities including pensioners. And in all that, something else, but especially important. That way, the circle would be reduced, the circle would be reduced to the people who work on black. The exceptional entry of a provision on traditional and artistic crafts, which states that these are crafts which require special knowledge of craft skills and skills in the performance of activities and which are mainly carried out by the share of manual work. This proposal also addresses the issue of the recognition of foreign educational qualifications, the initiation of the same procedure and what is the requirement for this to be contained? The issue of tied crafts for the area of special state care, mountain and mountain areas and the area laid down by the Island Act is particularly regulated. The powers of the Court of Honor of the Croatian Chamber of crafts are also extended, and in terms of temporary or permanent confiscation of the right to receive scientists to teach craftsmen and legal persons. It is expected that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on crafts, and they will ensure that they introduce more order in these activities. That this would result in the resuscitation of some almost missing professions. That it would reduce unemployment. To allow specific categories of pensioners to receive additional benefits legally. And already said to reduce the activity to black. For these reasons, I support the adoption of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90171	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Sopčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90172	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I support the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law of Turning. This law-making will allow a far wider circle of our citizens to open crafts which they have so far been unable to open because of a lack of certain conditions, which often resulted in work on black. This law reintroduces the Institute of Domestic Labour and Secondary Interest, which aims to enable natural persons to perform their domestic work. In view of the fact that this is limited, it is predetermined at the rate of total receipts of up to 10 gross average salaries. I don't agree with my colleague, Pecek, who said this provision would enable or stimulate craftsmen to move into a secondary profession, but it would allow our pensioners in particular to legally earn additional income and additional earnings. This proposal provides for conditions for obtaining a licence to open a craftsman’s examination, which may be accessible by persons with completed secondary school and two years of work experience in the profession for which the master’s examination is carried out and who do not have a suitable secondary school must have three years’ experience in the profession. With a lower school, he must have a ten-year internship in the profession for which the master's exam takes place. And this proposal opens up space to a wide range of people to pass the master's exam and open the crafts, which will ultimately contribute to the number of craftsmen, to increase employment and to reduce the number of jobs to black in the craft. This proposal also extends space to provide sufficient space for the implementation of practice, as it extends space to institutions and cooperatives, not only to craftsmen and companies. Also, this proposal is specifically designed for traditional and artistic crafts, which has not been settled in the law so far. Today in Croatia, with more than 260 thousand craft employees and over 105 thousand active crafts, this is one of the most significant economic activities. With the opening of entrepreneurship zones which today there are over 300 in Croatia that further enable the opening of crafts and building quality space to perform the same. A great result has been achieved, as well as the introduction of the "quickly" service, which is all the result of the work of this government and this ministry at the helm, on which you should be congratulated. I am convinced the bill's proposal will further improve the state of craftsmanship and increase the number of registered crafts as well as the reduction of the number of unemployed who for the first time in the last 10 years has fallen to 263,000, and I believe that thanks to this Bill proposal too, this number will be smaller. I would only appeal to the employees of the Ministry of Economy for these data to point out as much as possible because I don't know what can be more facts than this information about the decline of the number of unemployed. The quality of work and this ministry and this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90173	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90174	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I agree, and I support most of this and everything you've said. But there's one thing about a very retired man. The fact is, they're allowed to make extra money. However, I don't know if this should have happened now, but in any case, you should also consider that these pensioners who are only employed or who are re-employed are not as additional, but who want to reopen their crafts to get into some new pension calculation and that they are able to increase that pension. Because what's going on? We with this relationship 1 employee, 1 pensioner at 1.39, 37 employees with an average age who have our pensioners should in any case stimulate these pensioners to just hire and try to increase their pension. And that way we could only reduce the number of pensioners because everything else is just waiting for a natural...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90175	Honorable representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90176	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant. So all the importance of crafts and craftsmen shows us only one fact about the petty, and actually very, very important to all of us. And that is that only in one month Croatian craftsmen opened more than 5,000 jobs in one month. For me as well as for all of us in Međimurje, first of all craftsmen and craftsmen should be in the spotlight of interest not only now when this law is passed but also on the day and time itself. The craft was created with the first beginnings of civilized life on earth to this day. With us in Međimurje where there is great agrarian population, little land and hard life they created from the Međimurec of an eternal traveler, but also a valid hardworking and professional craftsman. As eternal true Croats, the Međimurians, their working Christian human virtues throughout history, had no basis for their homeland when it was an active participant in the creation of European economic and cultural civilization for centuries. In Međimurje, the craftsman has always been seen as a creator, as an inventor, as the ultimate designer of ideas. And so surely there are no areas in Croatia that would have as many craftsmen as the Međimurje have. That is why we always look with special attention to every newspaper that is produced by any new legal text dealing with the regulation of the rights and obligations of craftsmen. This novel of the Law on crafts, which in a certain way aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, wants to be implemented first and foremost. The introduction of domestic work out of a disputed profession that enables persons, especially pensioners to carry out their activities, to set simpler conditions for accessing master exams and to complete medium professional training will speed up and achieve better quality implementation of the policy of development of crafting and employment. The introduction of the obligation to have a business space to carry out the activity shall be harmonised with other material regulations that protect the institution of ownership. A continuous upgrade of the education system and the regulation of control obligations over the issue of licences for the implementation of a practical part of teaching, thus ensuring better quality education for the needs of craftsmanship. Welcoming all these newspapers as well as all the distinguished remarks of the Croatian Chamber of crafts with proposals that will be crystallized after this debate finally I am convinced that one good and useful novel of the Law of Turnings will be adopted. And in the end, let me just have some more, since I didn't want to correct Mr. Pecek. Mr. Pacek, this was in the previous proposal and in the previous law, no elementary schools and 10 years of work experience. Under this law, it is a lower professional preparation in the professional field plus 10 years of work experience. That's two things different.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90177	Replica, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I don't know what we don't understand. If someone has a primary school and if it takes 10 years of working experience and can become a master craftsman, it's an innovation in this law. Second, if he wants to open a craft he has to go to vocational school and he has to wait a few years, so it takes him five, six years to make the job a master. The fundamental dilemma that I was talking about is whether it's worth going to school at all, whether we've become through changes to this law country that supports education and especially this high school education that we're so committed to and what's most important about the government's project lately in the field of education. It is indisputable that through this law we will allow those who have a lower willingness to become masters, as well as those who have been educated and further educated for 5, 6 years for this same profession. Unquestionably, acquiring a work experience is good as one reason to enable someone to engage in activities, but what they do not learn at school is difficult to learn only if they perform that activity. I think we'll create a hole in education. I believe that we have demoted all those who went to high school, who were further educated as a master and who passed the master's exam and finally paid a lot to pass that master's exam. Well, it's precisely those people who are called masters and we, as citizens, expect a lot of quality. This way we may lose some of that quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90179	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Velimir Pleša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90180	I don't think you understood why I told you that. I say you're wrong to say that this law allows someone with a primary school and 10 years of experience in the profession to get a master's exam. That's not true, because this NSS means lower professional preparation, it's 2 years, after primary school 2 years someone has to finish and then you can, plus 10 years of work experience get a master's exam. That's the difference between that. So in any case, I'm saying that it's out of the law that you claim to exist in the law, and that may mean you haven't read the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90181	Honorable representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Jozo Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90182	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Mrs Kesic Sapic, dear assistant minister Mr. Begovic, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I could start with that famous "But it's still moving."". Now just whether it's moving fast enough and whether it's always moving forward and in the right direction and we're going to say a little bit about it. The fact is, there are good and positive shifts in this bill. And the basic intensity of how I read it from this bill is to achieve an even greater possibility of employment in crafts. Because all the time we've been talking, and it's good that we're talking about craftsmanship and small entrepreneurship that in this part of the Croatian economy, we have only an increase in employees. However, this increase in employees cannot be limitless. He's limited and I'd say with such small shifts in the law he'll bring certain effects in the short term, but in the long run I'm not sure we're on the best track. At first, I want to highlight the important newspapers in this bill. It's this possibility of domestic work, which I think is good and I support. But when it comes to secondary activity, there I am very suspicious and I am afraid that this is one of the possibilities that this possibility of secondary employment, in this case of pensioners, will be difficult to control its legality and I am afraid that what my colleague Pacek said, I do not always agree with it, but in this case, that a number of craftsmen could really go into retirement and then work on this model which would certainly not be good. And, of course, a significant newspaper here also these traditional and artistic crafts that I think would be extremely good if the taxation system for these craftsmen were to be in a pause because I think that they are doing so on their own and some great administration and bookkeeping would be really ineffective, or not give some of the effects that are expected, but which I don't really agree with because I don't think this is a good solution, which is that it really goes in the direction of reducing education and reducing training. Yes, it certainly is because I am a master's exam and education for craftsmen both professionally and practically and myself a master's exam is one guarantee that this craftsman is trained to conduct his own business to know, at least it's a Central European practice, and this entire Law on crafts and design of crafts has just been made according to the model of Central European states, in this case, Germany, Austria and other countries. Only a craftsman there is able and knows the business books in part, knows the legal regulations, is trained, is trained and knows all the skills in his profession. He also has pedagogical education and is able to educate young people, or scientists, and there the criteria are very clear and very strict. You can get a master's exam, or a master's letter or that document when you're 24 years old, when you graduate from high school, when you graduate from professional school and take a master's exam, and you have to be unpunished and that you have the right to open a company, or craftsmanship and to be able to study craftsmen. And by one master, you can have two scientists at most. It's a practice. But with these suggestions that we are offered that a master's exam can be carried out after certain skills are acquired in practice, I don't think that's a good idea. It is also not a good suggestion to create a distinction in the quality of craftsmen, i.e. masters in areas of special state care or in other areas of Croatia. I don't think that's a good model. Croatia is trying and we have declared it, and this has declared itself a real knowledge society and we are introducing a system of compulsory secondary education which is to be welcomed and I think only by raising the quality of education and professional training will our craftsmen be able to cope with competition when they enter the European community. This is the fact that the problem of implementation, i.e. practicing practical teaching because school centres are poorly equipped, do not have adequate equipment, and many craftsmen do not meet both spatial and technical conditions, and often times these qualifications, and in this way it will be even worse. I would suggest and I would like to and advocate that and precisely from this knowledge that we do not have the ideal conditions for the practical part of the teaching that the Ministry of crafts has set up certain educational centres that would be adequately equipped with adequate equipment that is in the last state of the technique because in this way we can perform, or guarantee one quality teaching and creating quality staff. Here's a positive example that we now have at the Ministry of the Sea and Tourism and Development and so on. They're funding the construction of a school ship. After a long, long, long time invested and the ministry invested funds in building a school ship precisely because we are aware that our sailors were once very high-quality, that they were very wanted and that it was a deficiting profession and that they would have a quality education and to maintain that reputation and importance that our sailors had was going to build a school ship. Not only should schoolships be built, I believe that colleges should also build the most modern, modern navigation equipment so that our sailors can, or an officer, meet all the needs that are expected of it. I'm sorry to see that I'm getting light because this matter is very interesting, it's a lot to say about. In any case, the shifts are and I repeat every good intention I welcome, and I think this institute of domestic work is good in any case, and I support it, but here's the thing about the education system, the access to the master's exam, about the practical teaching I think a lot more must be done in this respect. I would also like to draw attention and that is what we last said in the law when the debate on incentives was that we should make sure that all the entities on the market... We have cases precisely areas of special state concern and other areas to register certain companies in areas of special state care even large companies, and their overall activity takes place in the rest of Croatia and they are being brought into an extremely favourable position because they pay far less taxes than other colleagues or competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same will happen in the crafts, for example, in a part of Croatia that is of special state concern, and the entire activity is carried out in Istria or Međimurje or Zagreb. I think these are things we need to take care of. Thank you very much. My time is up a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90183	You haven't run out of time. It's expired, but it's not that long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90184	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90185	You didn't run out that long ago. Because it's light. We have a few replicas. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90186	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to go back to the pensioner's question. This is what the reasons set out in Article 2 say. Where a pensioner carries out domestic work or secondary occupation, the property of a pension insurance undertaking shall not be established. The fact is, that's probably how it's gonna be. However, the question arises, what about those who carry out complementary activities, which pay both pension and health. And someone already, since it's a supplemental activity, is already at their company where they work, pays both pension and health. Well, that man can't be treated twice, he can't be treated by two basics. And I hope so, and I talked downstairs, and I hope that this part will be corrected very quickly and that these people who are doing extra work won't have to pay double for health insurance. It's another thing if they're paying for retirement so it gets into their basics. And then it's okay. But we don't get into the basics. If it were to get into their retirement basics, then yes. But since they're not getting in, they're paying twice each other, let's get this into retirement, so let's get it into the basics. But they can't be treated twice, so they should pay twice for health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90187	Reply to the replica, respected representative Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90188	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Kapraljevic! I tried to make it clear in my debate that I always advocate those solutions that are clear, which are unequivocal and which will not lead to different interpretations of the law. I'm advocating the equality of all market entities in principle, and I'm in favour of that we don't have benefits on any basis, and I think I'm very critical of this extracurricular institution, if you've listened very carefully. And I don't think there should be any further discussion about it. I'm about for the law to work, for the law to be as simple as possible, as clear as possible, and for all entities on the market to be in the same position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90189	Dear representative Marija Lugaric, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90190	Dear fellow Topic! Although I agree with you in most of your discussion about education, I think it's high time we stopped just talking. Some grades just aren't right for you. You said the government was introducing compulsory high school education. I hope that you will read the material that has come for this session, therefore, a programme of introduction of high school education that does not aim to introduce compulsory high school education, which is simply what the government wrote in its own material. Second. It's about getting high school equipment. I agree with you that they are poorly equipped and not well equipped. But also instead of the praises that you've kept right and how it's done well, how kids go to school happily, how we have new programs, I'd rather you mentioned it and you voted for it, among other things, that the state budget has not provided the funds for school equipment for three years. We don't get those things off Mars. Simply money and programs for equipment and construction are provided in the state budget, and you have not advocated it in these past three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90191	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90192	Your Honor, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90193	Excuse me! You didn't lift the plate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90194	I did. Yes, I did. [[/Intruder: Yes. It is.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90195	How can I not see that you are?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90196	Well, I don't know. Maybe I can help...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90197	I can't see and you've prescribed my glasses.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90198	Maybe I can help.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90199	You're the optician who prescribed my glasses.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90200	Oh, come on. Thanks for making me a commercial.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90201	I can't see right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90202	Of course, colleague Lugaric has expanded the subject a little bit. I was saying that this government is trying, this ministry is trying and it's said to be pushing for the introduction of a knowledge society at all levels and great progress has been made right in the education system. And in two years I've been informed there should be mandatory high school education. It's about that. And on the other hand, I think that when we talk about the equipment of schools and special workshops, etc., I didn't talk much about the subject, but I was talking about a positive example in the Ministry of the Sea, the sky and the country as we speak, that the government is making every effort to improve the system of education and education of all personnel. So I said as a positive example of building a school ship that should be for that very purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90203	Dear Representative Željko Pavlic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90204	So here, I'm also saying that our system of schooling is missing, so it needs to be used, there's plenty of space to be used, it needs to be aligned with the economy, it needs to be aligned with craftsmanship, it needs to be aligned with time. We also need traditional crafts and some more modern skills. And what kind of situation is currently on the ground, which proves this to us for example in Međimurje County, at the beginning of last school year there were 470 available places in programs for craftsmanship, and 345 seats were filled in 15 classrooms. For example, the lymari were lost by scientists in the second year, so no student showed up. But on the other hand, a new department that's formed into... So in Chakovec he was filled in quickly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So all 30 students entered that class and so it's about a new profession, they're processors on CNC machines. So these are processors working on computer-controlled machines. So in such a way, our education should be developed as soon as possible and as strongly as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90205	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90206	Thank you, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking about the law or the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Turnings with the unquestionable improvements that occur in the law itself, I think it is also time to talk about the position of general craftsmanship in Croatia alone in this situation of the globalised world and of attacks or the entry of international corporations into the Croatian market. Therefore, the role of the Croatian state must especially be according to the craftsmanship itself so as to enable a large number of people to survive and make a decent living. In what conditions do small and medium-sized entrepreneurs work today? Perhaps this is also the occasion that fellow Pecek spoke of but not only through this law but also by looking at those other laws that essentially put a small and medium craftsman in an unequal position with regard to large corporations. And it's supposed to be the opposite. In socialism, we also had that provision, which was precisely private initiatives, and even a small craftsmanship, or craftsmanship, in an unequal position, saying that they were only in principle equated with the social sector at the time. Today, of course there are no such provisions in the Constitution, but the actual position of craftsmen is far, far, wide compared to other large employers or not to mention large multinational corporations. To note, recently a few days ago, the World Bank came up with the latest report, where their analysts estimate that it is real, that real corruption works in Croatia amount to as much as 6 billion in a year. It's of course he collects business conditions. It's something that we all have to seriously imagine ourselves over. Finna's recent report is really alarming. This report shows that the non-proliferation, among the non-proliferation, is the largest number of these small and medium craftsmen. Why are they inequitable? The total amount in this total amount of 17 billion claims, i.e. indemnities, amounts to exactly exactly, concerns small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and individuals of 12,700 billion and 4 billion are larger. So the total is the claims. Inequity 17 billion. It is something that is worrying because it will most reflect on those less, to the least, small entrepreneurs who will then not be able to meet their, one of their basic payout obligations to workers. Why does the state tolerate it and what makes it so? Here's often the government likes to brag about this fast project, and it's really improved a lot. But even the ones until then, the ones that were promoted weren't so disastrous. Because the least of the problems is starting a company. But the biggest problem is that, according to this project model, the government's Fast HR project has allowed those who have remained in debt both to the state and to the workers to rebuild the new company. That fuse we had and that could also have been misused, so instead of empowering it, it was simply removed and now so, after strenuous litigation, the believers were thus played. It is a pity that among them are the largest number of workers or their own also small and small cooperatives. It's something that shouldn't happen. This is also an opportunity to remember all those measures that have been made possible by small employers for the past few years. They were abolished on the grounds that there were no good results. And 80,000 of us have new jobs in that period, which were precisely through these measures and for the employment of employers. We had a big time for almost two years but a year and a half, where we didn't have a single measure anymore, while these new measures, proposed by the government itself, the employers claimed they weren't enough for them to stimulate them. It's an opportunity for the government to look and listen to these very small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, what is it really about? The big problem facing, or where all, where the negativity of such behaviour is most precisely reflected in the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is the non-payment of the state. The state has again become one of the indifference generators, one of the biggest debtors. The state orders jobs, goods, services, and doesn't pay for them. Or if he does not pay them within an adequate period, we can also say that he does not pay them because he creates a major alarm and a major market disturbance, and I say the highest price is paid by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs or craftsmen. Namely, after the big drugstores and the pharmacy, the builders just came forward. They protest, of course, very cautiously because later they are being blackmailed that they will not even get jobs, but here they appeared through their executive board, the Association of Employers, the construction of Croatia. They therefore reported to the Croatian Employers' Association with a requirement to do something necessary in the sector. The long-term delays in payments simply make their work impossible. They also bring them into an unequal position in relation to those who do not pay their obligations, and they are often prevented from doing so neatly. Such a problem chokes more than 75 small and medium-sized construction companies. Therefore, the Croatian Employers' Association, this is what I say, and that the Government knows for sure because it is also a requirement for it to initiate the introduction of order into the payment system for the works carried out and by applying the rules applicable in the European Union. If the government had just responded adequately to this initiative, it would have meant a multiple reduction of deadlines, given the range that is now essentially choking. The strict rules should also be introduced into the law, which we will now have, that is, these next days to discuss the Public Procurement Act. And insisting precisely on introducing into the law the obligation of investors to submit a statement as part of the tender on the insurance of funds to cover the total investment, not that the state still pays the great performer, and later on it does not settle its obligations, not by itself to the worker. So here is today's position, and I doubt that this bill itself, when the final bill is passed, will change their difficult position which is objective because they are small and medium versus large, which are actually real masters, and these craftsmen are often just apprentices in relation to the words of such masters. It is therefore an obligation for countries to ensure their level playing field on the market, to change images and the situation that the state is lenient to large corporations that do not protect neither our environment nor our obligations towards the state are often deafened or not insisted on that fee equally does not pay workers. As long as all legal obligations are directed towards this small one. So if the situation doesn't need to change then surely bring one and the other into an equal position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90207	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90208	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I have to fix my colleague because she said that their government had a legal fuse that prevented the company's machinations. Well, I'm saying it's not like that. Because here's one of their former ministers, today's prime minister's candidate, he founded a company called d.d. of which one 6, 7 companies, i.e. d.o. And one, six, seven, company niklo d.o.o. You took jobs, you set up jobs, and you just damaged the construction craftsmen that you're talking about, even though he didn't have any single construction worker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90209	Replica. What? ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90210	My colleague violated Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure by correcting what I didn’t say at all. But please, Mr. President, don't punish him because he was the last secretary of his committee there at school when he competed for the director's post, so give him a take it as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90211	First, MP Markovinović corrected your incorrect allegations. He made it, and you made a certain claim that he was correcting. Is that all there is to it? So he didn't hurt his rules of procedure. And second of all, you hurt the Rules of Procedure by getting involved in something else under the cover of the Rules of Procedure. And I won't punish him, I won't punish you clearly, and I won't punish you. Because he needs you, so. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's go. Replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90212	The esteemed colleague spoke about the role of the state, hence the very difficult functioning of craftsmanship and craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia. I will extend this topic, therefore, with the role of our municipalities, cities and counties as well, and because of my low budget compared to the budget of the Republic of Croatia, which is extremely largely forced to introduce new taxes and burdens towards craftsmen. They've been talking and warning craftsmen about it for a long time. Unfortunately, nothing has changed in that sense. So craftsmen complain that every day they are faced with multiple increased tax burdens, that they are faced with enormously high concession fees, and also recently it is present that units of local self-government have started to turn into their unfair competition, unfair competition of craftsmen and entrepreneurs so that they create and open up some of their own companies. And those companies get certain jobs without a competition. All this is due to the fact that the state, so our country's functioning of the state, is extremely expensive, and then the budgets of the state must be large. So it also creates a high price for our product. This is also evidenced by the fact that on Wednesday, 13.6. I think it's kind of a day of relations between the state and its citizens, so by 13.6., as it was announced in the news on the "Dnevnik" of Croatian television, until 13.6 this year, citizens worked only for the state. So everything they've earned these past few months that part has gone to the state, and only since the 14th, so they've worked for themselves. That's right, now he'll be working again for the cameras, etc. It is therefore a symbolic day that happens in all countries to know that the burdens of both the economy and the citizens are tax burdens. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90213	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is very good that in the atmosphere of democracy we are having a debate on such an important law. However, the fundamental question that I have asked myself by reading this proposal is whether we will adapt these amendments to the craftsmen, or whether we will meet their expectations. Most of us here have agreed that this law is not very innovative. See, we didn't even appreciate what came into practice, which is to allow drivers to pass master's exams without additional education because they have already confirmed themselves as the best entrepreneurs and the best lobbyists in both the large and the small economy and without them, you can't actually get, let alone charge for the job. I am absolutely certain that this law will not meet the expectations of those who are in the blockade of the jury accounts, those who are threatening the execution, those who are expecting a development loan, those who expect not to pay taxes on reinvested income and those who expect it too long to reduce taxes, to reduce tax contributions. Here I am unhappy that this Law does not decidate the fact that no bankruptcy proceedings can be carried out against a craftsman as a natural person because the Executive Law allows it. It would be logical to stress here that the bankruptcy proceedings against a craftsman can only be carried out for the assets he has entered to carry out the crafts as an additional activity, however, there are likely to be several litigation cases in courts that have just seized the entire assets of the people who have begun to trade. The HSS Club has proposed here in this House over the past four years a lease on the sale of business space to craftsmen under more favourable conditions owned by the state. Unfortunately, this amendment to the law has been passed, but we have never passed a regulation that is required by the Government for a third year to do so. We fought here in the Parliament if I could use that word to fight to reduce and abolish the monumental rent. That didn't go away. We also proposed amendments to the Tax on Profit and Income Act that would help craftsmen to do their jobs easier and cheaper. That didn't go away. We wanted to equalize the rights of craftsmen, i.e. craftsmen, with those employed in companies and institutions. That didn't go away. We also advocated the protection of craftsmen as a believer, but it also did not pass. Let's try to figure out for once that it's not hard to start a twist at all. It's hard to survive on the market, it's hard to survive. It's actually a message that we hear from craftsmen every day and that we should adapt to. The amendments to this Law will certainly not help. What I have pollemized is the introduction of a complementary profession, i.e. a secondary activity that is introduced as a social category, and here we, in this Bill proposal, argue that retirement does not allow a decent life and should enable a craftsman who is retired to work to death. I believe that a much better effect would be achieved and that we should actually advocate that a craftsman who works for 40 years could live decently from his pension, but that is not the case now because the pension of those who have performed crafts activities and who have done so for over 40 years is significantly less than a thousand kunas. It's the problem of those who have trades, who have retired and who can't actually live out of it. The second topic for controversy is to enable the benefits of a mastery exam without a secondary school. I don't think that's a good solution, I think it's in collegiation with Croatia as a knowledge country that we're so much behind for a few months, in which we particularly declare the importance and necessity of high school education for which we're going to give free textbooks and we're going to solve transportation, we're going to give a series of conveniences, but then we're allowing someone to gain the title of a master without finishing high school education, and at the same time we expect him to be quality, to compete in the market for companies. What I welcome in this Law is to enable the opening of tied crafts on islands and in areas of special state concern because it is true that there we will thus allow easier opening of crafts, but also meet the needs of the local population. However, I wonder why this proposal does not cover rural areas. Mr. President, we who are in Slavonia know that over 300 municipalities have disappeared in that area in the last 25, 30 years. I'm absolutely sure it would be justified to introduce this measure for rural space, for example. at least for the category of municipalities that have 5 thousand inhabitants, and they have not had any tied crafts. These people travel or call craftsmen to come to them from 50 kilometers away. I don't see any difference between that rural area that's abandoned, which the intense depopulation has both islands and mountainous areas. What we're allowing here as a possibility to change the law is that a craftsman can stop doing crafts for more than a year for the care of a child with severe developmental disturbances. Oh, that's wonderful. Look, we're giving him the opportunity to close the craft for two, three years, but let's just say that during that time he doesn't get any compensation, that during that time he doesn't have any pension insurance. At the same time, in companies and institutions, people who use this way of the year to nurse children have significantly better conditions. So why this inequality? Why don't we already regulate that area that the HSS is talking about in this House, and at least twenty times. What makes the difference between those who work in crafts and those who work in companies? Why does one mother have one right and the other mothers have other rights? Why does a craftsman lose his job have no right at the unemployment office? Why doesn't he get paid for the first month when he goes to sick leave? So these are the questions that we should have regulated because these same people pay for health insurance, these same people pay for pension insurance, and these same people pay for unemployment contributions for people who work with them. I've also never seen what rights pensioners will have in relation to their current condition. So if they're retired and they're carrying out a secondary activity, and I didn't even see if they had any new obligations. What we also polymized about is 120 million kuna support for craftsmen and small entrepreneurs this year. Well, look, it's funny to say that that's enough, it's funny to compare it with the equivalent of four kilometers of the fast road, or as we said 1 km of the Zagreb-Macelj highway. That's not enough. So let's at least say here in Parliament that it's not enough and that we didn't support that sector as it should, as this sector deserves, because in the last seven, eight years it's opened over 100,000 new jobs. That's the fact. We praise them. Yeah, you've made a move, but support isn't enough anyway. An example of how we support this sector is a crafts school. By amending the law five years ago, the law defined the establishment of a craftsman's school for life-long education. But here, through the amendments to this law, it is said that the minister of education will lay down some rules for the school to be established. But the fact is, after five years, we didn't do anything. And finally, the expectations were absolutely certainly higher, expectations are also greater craftsmen than the craftsman, and it would be good if we saw in this law some novel that would oblige the Chamber to say where and what they spend the money it collects in the form of contributions? And it would also be good if we had thought about reducing these contributions both for the Chamber and for taxes and for pension and health insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90215	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90216	I am correcting Mr. Pecek's incorrect claim that, in the sense that the promoter, or this Government, introduced the Institute of Domestic Labour and Secondary Interest, exclusively in order to improve the social status of pensioners who have been paid off with their small pensions because it does not correspond to the truth. Therefore, this institute has been introduced for all those found not to earn more than 63,000 kuna annually on behalf of this exercise of any kind of activity, and this is such a wide circle that it covers almost every resident of the state who wants it. So, so-called. non-commercial farmers, therefore housewives, any other people, all natural persons in Croatia can consume the institute. And of course among other things, one of these segments can be pensioners. So it is possible for those who are doing this illegally to be put into control frames and to earn the very legal means that they will now, at the end of the day, say I as a woman, a series of women able to do housework commercially from the I don't know, traditional women's things baking cakes to the making of handiwork and everything else and be alone in the legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90217	Replica esteemed representative Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90218	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I must admit, I was pleasantly surprised that Mr. Parliamentarian Mr. Pecek was very critical of the Chamber of crafts. And I, I share his opinion on the matter, and I have represented such attitudes all the time. And two years ago, and three years ago, etc. But do I not know if this is the change in Mr. Pecek's position because before he had the opposite attitudes, related to changes in the head of the Croatian Chamber of crafts? Because I believe it must have something to do with it, because it used to be the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90219	The reply to the replica is Honored Representative Željko Pavlic, Željko Pecek, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90220	Well, fellow Topic! The answer is very simple and you should know it as a craftsman. Here, in this bill of law, we don't see a single opinion of the Chamber. If you have carefully read the explanation, I believe the Chamber should have been actively involved in this. If she was actively involved, then the ministry should have written it, so we know what the Chamber proposed and what was rejected. The second part of the story is called next to the last event, which is Sibenik and the Conference on Small Economy. I just don't know if the Chamber was there. There used to be some other time there were workshops, there were discussions initiated by the Chamber in terms of amendments to the law, so it had nothing to do with changes I don't even know what happened in the Chamber, but it's attitude. This is the view of the HSS that the fees for the Chamber of Commerce and for Croatia are too high. And what gets back from one chamber and another is too little. I believe that at least 70, 80% of craftsmen and entrepreneurs will tell you that. Especially since these givings are increasing more and more year by year, and they are unwarrantedly increasing. So here, it means because of the inactivity lately, not because of the changes that have occurred in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90221	Five minutes of debate. HDZ club respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90222	Thank you, Mr. President. And I just want to underline some of the issues that have been going through the debate all along about the bill's proposal, which are actually not at all controversial if the law is read well and interpreted as being in the spirit of its articles and imagined. So, we would be very glad that Croatia is highly developed on every square metre and has equal conditions for attraction, even for craftsmanship. However, it came out of the war and with a great legacy from the past, it is not this moment. And for this reason, this government has, in order to declare balanced development, introduced the entire state's provisional institution of positive discrimination which also allows for people to remain in those parts, by reducing the necessary conditions for a very small step to be registered. Therefore, it must have the manager of a certain qualification and only one level lower preparation for the performance of the crafts. And so it showed its full regularity because since 2001, since the institute was introduced, a number of people have remained working in these areas and there have been many new crafts. Until the conditions for all of us to be equally developed are met, the Croatian Democratic Community should remain in the draft of this law and that is the position of our club. It is also repeatedly claimed that all those who now operate as craftsmen will flee to the Institute of Domestic Labour and Secondary Interest, which is not true at all. Because this institution of domestic hard work and secondary occupation has very clear criteria and anyone who employs and one more than himself, I mean a craftsman, will not be able to consume this institute, because it will only apply to one who has one employee and who realizes the income of no more than 63,000 kuna. So all those who have bigger crafts and who have more employees will stay in the classic twist to say so. And also, in any case, I want to clarify this constantly which is said to be going to a lower level of education and that this is not in line with the declared government policy of secondary education and the introduction of this institute into the future system. This is quite in line with this, and this is clearly resolved in the articles on the proposal for new conditions for passing master's exams where it is said that there must be a proper middle-preparation and two years of work experience. That you must have the proper mid-term and education in master school. So you can have an inappropriate medium with three years of work experience. And to be able to have inadequate professional training in the professional field with 10 years of work experience, lower preparation, but these are repeated: primary school plus two years of Šuvar school. Because we can't keep that circle of people saying the unhappy ones who were in one system that's now inherited, we can't leave these people like they don't exist when they exist. They finished two classes of Shuvar's school. I'm not going to say what kind of schools they were and what kind of occupations they had because we're opening up a Pandora's box, but I come from an area that I know very well. I was working in a big van, so we used to joke that we had, I don't know, a backstabber if it was a meat business. So people like that can if they work for ten years in the profession they do and have an eight-year-old plus those two classes of then-so-called. secondary schools open crafts and there is no dispute about someone going down the criteria and there is an accepted proposal from the Croatian Chamber of crafts that agreed with them. So I repeat when the law is read well and when you talk about this speaker about articles of the law, not something that someone imagines coming out of this law, and then criticises... This is all and everything, and at least he's talking about the law, so again, the Croatian Democratic Community Club is putting itself in favour of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will vote for him because we believe he brings improvement to craftsmen, those who use their services and the overall Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90223	... Keep going. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Club of IDS MPs, respected representative Valter Drandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90224	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's at the end of this debate on behalf of the IDS Club just a few, a few words. First of all, this debate shows that it is obviously craftsmanship and the recent debate on the promotion of a small economy are topics that need much broader and more quality discussion because they are obviously very specific, life-threatening topics. I'll tell you one piece of information from my county, Istrian County, 21% of craftsmen are blocked in Istria today. And it's obvious that many have already highlighted the problem of billing is something that our craftsmen are most troubled by, something that they are simply not up to in many situations. They are not up to it because they simply do not have the strength to oppose such one trend that exists on our market. Many small craftsmen have to work for large ones, under quotes. And that's good. These are cluster systems that we all advocate should work. But when they only function in a way that takes someone's work, that a job is done without paying later, it's not what nobody in this country wants. And this is certainly not a problem that can only be solved by the state or the public sector. This is a problem that needs to be solved by a more appropriate relationship, and so on. Great for which many, many craftsmen small entrepreneurs work. If they don't get rid of it, if they can't do it differently, then no one will. So this is also an appeal to those who deal with big businesses. So let me say to the big economy that in a different way they treat craftsmen, to a small economy, which they are very much dependent on. Surely this debate deserves a much, much broader design, but if we concentrate only on what is proposed in this Law for us in the IDS, with some small dubiosis that we have heard here today from other MPs, this law is acceptable. We think he's still taking some small steps forward. It goes forward in the sense that it is possible for us to contribute with small steps of better quality and better work in crafts. But it's absolutely, absolutely not enough. The craftsmanship, the small economy, and the economy as a whole still has a lot of problems in our country. The biggest problem is clear absolutely no, I won't say absolutely sorry, but still great incompetence. ... I already said, the big problem is the frames. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where he starts from school, but he starts from himself. Because we can often make statements, or some of us, that it's a shame, I don't know, doing some work. And that's what I think is one of the main big problems that today is such a trend that it's a shame to be, I don't know, waiter, cook or don't know what. These are people who work honestly and live off their work, and it is absolutely not a shame, but should be a pride. The big problem is working on black. There's no workforce, especially in construction. Unfortunately, only those who are registered are controlled, those who are not outside the control system. And so on and so forth. We can do something in that part, but much is clear in these things both on local and regional self-government and should be honest and say not all craftsmen in such problems. There are very successful, very good and very high-quality craftsmen and they should probably be the ones who should lead these institutions such as the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen to contribute with their experience and knowledge to making other craftsmen the same as these. And in the end, one quite concrete proposal. There's a law that's been in the process of this Parliament for several years. Who could certainly help our winemakers, our winemakers, our caterers. Let's finally change that 0.0 to 0.5 promills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90225	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90226	I'll complete, in fact, correct the incorrect assumption. When the gentleman said in the beginning that they were suddenly blocked and the number of blocked accounts was increased in Istria County and from difficult business conditions, and I don't know what. It should be kept in mind that, now we're at the age of year when tax solutions come. So this moment has come to people's tax solutions. They didn't pay taxes for a long time, and it's logical that in a shorter period of time they have to pay what they are otherwise obligations, so here in this sense I just wanted to correct that quote so that it doesn't turn out that some new measures have made business worse in such a way that they're all blocked because of it. They're blocked because of Obligation, that's right. [[Intruder: Obligation.]] Legal and regular [[Intruder: Non-payments.]] [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90227	The HSS club's five-minute debate. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, finally, I'd like to say that they're here... The topic, and I think that actually the most important topic about it was something my colleague spoke about earlier, which is called discrimination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My claim is that the craftsman is discriminated against because he has no equal rights as those who work in companies. I also gave an example of the Law of Business where craftsmen correspond to their entire assets, even with family property. So imagine what it would look like to the owner of a trade company, as a matter of principle, to come to prey in the liquidation or bankruptcy of the entire property and the house in which he lives, not just the property he has entered into the company. You see, there's this inequality, there's this discrimination. Another discrimination is that craftsmen do not have the same rights as employees in companies and institutions. When they get to the unemployment office, they get nothing if they don't have children running pension insurance, their health rights are restrictions. These are the forms of discrimination that we should have changed a little bit, warned about them and improved the situation in this sector because it is the craftsmen who, certainly, deserve it. Through this law we will allow them to work further, that they actually work for the rest of their lives. For the simple reason that the pension they receive is in the last category of all pensioners, it comes down to only a few hundred kunas. The only smaller pension they have is farmers. As for education, I believe that the Republic of Croatia wants strong and that it also wants an expert craftsman who can go to Europe, who can compete on the market. The commitment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as of us in the Croatian Parliament, is at least a declaration of education and competitiveness. And I assure you that this is achieved only in one way, through full education but also through the knowledge check, which just allows the system of education. So the criteria of knowledge need to be raised, not reduced. This is exactly what we're doing here in this bill of law. We're downplaying the knowledge criteria. This example goes in this direction, this example is going in a bad direction, and I am sure that those people who cross-edit education in 2.3 years when we enter the European Union, or when competition gets stronger in Croatia will not be able to respond to these challenges and will have to close trades. This gives them one false hope, one shortcut. They'll think they've been trained, they know it, but they'll have to be destroyed after three, four years. I am also not happy when I was talking about the Croatian Chamber of crafts that they did not get support for the establishment of the crafts bank. They had that intention, but apparently the government didn't react. I'm particularly sad that here after 4 years when the law was changed and the law envisioned the establishment of a crafts school, in a way "high crafts school", under quotes for lifelong education. That hasn't come back to life in four years. Through this law we interpret how this school can be founded. And what also does not delight me, there are no new steps towards partnership between the government, the ministry and the Croatian Chamber of crafts. A craft, an electronic craft register was established 3 years ago. And it would probably be good to transfer it to the management of the Croatian crafts chamber for two reasons. Because they still run the parallel register. Another reason could be to generate some revenues on the market through this activity and could be to lower chamber contributions. And the central question, one of the important issues actually with craftsmen is the reduction of the contribution to the chamber. But also a reduction in tax contributions and other contributions from pension and health. We haven't done enough here. The other day we as Croatia got rid of paying towards the state of contributions. I'm saying we're moving those dates backwards. I don't think this proposal goes well enough in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90229	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ivana Sučec Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90230	It's an incorrect assumption that I was talking about discrimination. I was talking about positive discrimination which is quite the opposite term, meaning guessing, concessions, improving the possibilities of certain categories in certain areas. And I'm correcting a second assumption that it might be cheaper to be a trade register in the HOC which is not true. He would take an additional 40 million kunas from the budget and would not return funds from registration to crafts such as the current system and would not have professionally trained people or logistics that he has today, I repeat at 107 places in the Republic of Croatia, which this government, this ministry has set up just for the benefit of craftsmen and for the establishment of a single system.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90231	And a respected representative, Ivanka Roksandić, a correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90232	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Pacek told me about education that the knowledge criteria in this education are decreasing in this bill. It's not like you're getting any lower on your colleague, Pecek. A few times today has already been corrected to whom the subject of the master's examinations is concerned. But I want to tell you how much he invests in vocational education. So I want to remind all of us for viewers and for your sake that 13 centres of excellence in the field of vocational education with just today mentioned CNC technologies have been opened in this Croatia over the last year, to reduce the number of professional sectors, to reduce, and all in terms of increasing the quality of education and investment in crafts schools. I'm going to be really, and I am the happiest person to finally bring order to craft schools, because so far, there's really been a riot in art school education. So it invests, not to decrease, but to increase the quality of education in crafts. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90233	I saw it, I heard it. I hear on those low frequencies this whisper. She said 230 and it's something. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. But a colleague of yours will be safe in accordance with his rules of procedure to say that it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90234	Thank you very much. You've just realized that you see a little bit weaker, but it's good to hear good. Well, here's the communication we had here you've successfully noticed. No matter what I want to react to injure the Rules of Procedure? My colleague used to say how centers were founded, Article 209, how they were founded, so let me say Mr. Jarnjak, you won't even find out unless I say so. She was saying how the centres of excellence were founded, and I was saying that just those craftsmen in that center didn't have to go to pass the master's exam. My colleague, you've been saying the exact opposite of what I mentioned. I'd be glad to see that high school promotion being used by craftsmen. This way, those who don't have education won't have to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90235	Comrade Pacek, you were saying that the level of education in vocational schools is reduced, and that's what the MP said was not correct and explained those reasons. State Secretary Tajana Kesic Sapic, final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's a little bit. I'm glad that today, based on our proposal for a bill, the debate is under way. I must point out, and I will respond to Mr Topić because he noted and said that there is no practice in Croatia and that there is not enough money to be invested in it. I will just point out that the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship annually allocates a million kunas for vocational education practices for 20 schools, that it grants 164 scholarships for deficiting occupations, to allocate 1 and a half million kunas per year to crafters who receive craftsmen, means to practice children. It is just some of the activities of the 130, or 260 million kuna, when we count both the entrepreneurial infrastructure and other projects of the ministry related to small and medium enterprises. I would also agree with you that there is much that could yet be improved, but it is not the subject of this Law. So Mr Pecek was talking about the European Union directive regarding the collection of claims. This will introduce this directive, but in the Law on Mandatory Relations. It cannot be entered into this Law. Similarly, as regards the reduction of the income tax, the reinvestment of taxes, it is also not the subject of this current law. I'll still have to react to master's, access to master's exams. So it's not said here that a man with a lower skill set and 10 years of work experience can open a craft. No, he can't open the crafts. He only achieves the conditions to go to the master's exam, and those who evaluate on the master's exam to assess whether that man meets whether he could become a craftsman or not, that he doesn't think that that man should end up somehow I don't know and has.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90237	What the hell is a rondel?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90238	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90239	There's something going on here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90240	I don't know what's going on. That's all I wanted to explain. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that, again, by adopting this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on crafts will allow a wider number of natural persons, especially pensioners and those who wish to do some additional work to carry out their activities by setting simpler conditions for access to the Master's exam, a better quality implementation of the policy of development of craftsmanship and promotion of employment and the continuous upgrade of the education system and by prescribing control of the issue of a practical part of teaching will be ensured better education for the needs of craftsmanship. And we have also received amendments to the Committee on Law that we fully accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90241	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90242	Thank you very much. It's not true, Mr. President, that there's been a conversation about what's not in this law. A good example is what I was talking about. This Law does not allow the execution of other assets by craftsmen other than those introduced by craftsmen, and the Executive Act allows the execution of the entire property of craftsmen, meaning those which are not entered into crafts and their family houses. That's why I said it should be strengthened through this Law, but it should finally propose amendments to the Implementing Law. Well, that's the role of this ministry and government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90243	I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on crafts. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote! The result? With 92 votes for, 10 abstentions, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade, the text proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90246	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Republic of Croatia, as a Mediterranean Central European and Danube country with a small and open economy, is on the way to building a stable, competitive and socially sensitive national economy capable of joining a global competition. A high level of consumer protection is necessary to ensure the development and functioning of the market economy and to ensure adequate market surveillance. In fact, the well-organised economy of a country is based on the competitiveness of entrepreneurs, and largely depends on the high level of consumer confidence and satisfaction. Aware of the importance of consumer protection and health, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is carrying out a series of activities related to the construction of a consumer protection system. These activities focus on creating a good legal basis for consumer protection, strengthening the administrative structure for the implementation of full market surveillance, increasing the level of consumer knowledge and information on their rights, and promoting the development and work of consumer protection associations and their consultation centres to represent consumer interests. The Consumer Protection Act of 2003 provides a general framework for consumer protection policy, and a specific consumer protection policy for a specific period of time for the selection and scope of consumer protection priorities to be financed from the state budget of all entities actively involved in the implementation of that policy is being developed by national consumer protection programmes, which are based on Article 96 of this Act. On 25 February 2005, the Croatian Parliament adopted the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2005-2006, which lays down the foundations of consumer protection policy for a certain period and carries out the selection and scope of priority tasks in the area of consumer protection financed from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Consumer Protection Act The Government of the Republic of Croatia reports once a year to the Croatian Parliament on the achievement of consumer protection policies in the National Programme over the past year. Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship as a body responsible for consumer protection... Cooperation with members of the Consumer Protection Council, draft annual report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 200.5-2006, which was unanimously adopted at the Consumer Protection Council meeting held on 14 March 2007. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To date, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has realised a series of measures and activities led by the basic objective, which is to enable a steady improvement in the quality of life of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in order to protect economic interests and promote the importance of health and safety of consumers. The objectives set out and developed by the National Consumer Protection Programme in 2005-2006 are to create conditions for the effective resolution of observed problems in the area of consumer protection, awareness of consumers about their real position and strength in the market, to sensitise the entire public on consumer rights in the Republic of Croatia, to ensure consumer support in the achievement of their rights, to strengthen the position of consumers in the market, to raise consumers' awareness of their rights and role in the market economy, to protect consumers' health and safety, with further harmonisation of legislation with European Union legislation. Allow me only in these few minutes to extract the most significant from the activities carried out in the area of consumer protection during 2006. The national consumer protection programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2005 to 2006 has shown the need to strengthen the level of consumer protection in the following priority areas of public services, health services, health and food quality, product safety, education, information, trade, financial services and banking, environmental protection, tourism and catering, as well as in the area of real estate use. Next, in 2006, the implementation of the EU CARDS project was under way in 2002, entitled "Increasing capacity in the area of consumer protection", which the European Union supported the Republic of Croatia in achieving its objective of increasing consumer levels, strengthening institutional capacity, developing human potential and increasing the level of awareness of the need for consumer protection, protecting health, safety and economic interests of consumers. We are pleased to find that the project has been successfully implemented and has greatly contributed to increasing the level of consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia. This project strengthened the administrative institutional capacity of consumer policyholders. This project has also technically strengthened consumer protection associations and has implemented education of government and non-governmental personnel working in this area. During 2006, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship carried out activities that focused on drawing up a proposal for a new Consumer Protection Act, which was approached not only to comply with its provisions with European Union legislation, but primarily to improve its provisions with a view to achieving a basic objective, which is high consumer protection. A large part of the activities also concern the establishment of a central consumer information system which, at this stage, will allow the consumer policyholders, namely the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the State Inspectorate and the Consumer Protection Association, to move faster towards the flow of information on frequent consumer rights violations and the timely taking of measures by the competent authorities and market surveillance authorities in order to eliminate them. In order to improve consumer information within the central consumer information system, the web is also designed. a website presenting the content in the area of consumer protection. The site is part of an existing web site. the pages of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and are continuously complemented by all relevant content in the area of consumer protection. For activities and projects designed for the Consumer Protection Associations provided for by the National Programme in 2006, funds from the state budget in the Republic of Croatia amounting to millions and 994 thousand kuna were spent. Only for registration in Lithuania, which numbers three million inhabitants and where about 22 Consumer Protection Associations are established annually, is allocated for the needs of the Consumer Protection Association around three times less funds. It can therefore be concluded that the Government of the Republic of Croatia takes great care of the importance of consumer protection and its development. In Croatia today, four Consumer Protection Councils are active and are financed exclusively from the state budget, whose purpose is to educate consumers about their rights and obligations. During the period from January to the end of December 2006, around 11000 and 862 were received from consumers through telephone, mail or direct arrival at the consultant. The data presented indicate that consumers in the Republic of Croatia have recognised the importance and advantages of counselling and the Consumer Protection Association as places through which they effectively exercise their basic consumer rights. Thus, in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, a number of activities have been achieved in order to raise knowledge about consumer protection, education and information. All educational institutions have introduced students to the National Consumer Protection Programme for 2005/2006. A year. Croatian media has contributed greatly to informing and educating the public about the problem of consumer protection. The Croatian Radio Television has been monitoring the problem of consumer protection in radio and television programmes, and the Croatian Radio Information Programme is monitoring consumer issues through its day-to-day shows and giving special attention to the public voice and evening programme. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction shall continuously inform consumers of the environmental aspect of products and services via its web. The site promotes and raises awareness of sustainable consumption and production and changes in consumer habits at national and regional level on environmental protection and promotes environmental culture in consumers. And I'm still not listing the other elements contained in the entire report. Let me finally point out that the proposed Annual Report on the achievement of the 2006 National Consumer Protection Programme as a document represents a series of realised activities which result in positive effects in raising the level of consumer protection in our country. The area of consumer protection needs to be continuously improved and strengthened by administrative and institutional capacities, by raising awareness of the importance of consumer protection by education and informing consumers about their rights, obligations and by continuing good cooperation between the Government and the civil sector. A low level of consumer protection in the open market results in mistrust among all participants, which consequently raises the question and functioning of the market itself and thus the economy as a whole. And for an end that I would say, for this reason, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and as shown in this report, has taken a whole series of activities and measures over the past period to raise the level of consumer protection and will continue to implement it. The goal we want to achieve is a modern-developed social economy that makes consumers feel protected, secure and satisfied. I propose that the Annual Report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme 2005/2006 be adopted. for 2006. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u90247	Thank you. The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction? The Human First and Rights Committee of the National Minorities? I'm opening a debate. Representative Vesna Škrare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. The other no one ever applied for a hearing again. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 13.00 hours by voting on discussed agenda points. Annual report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2000-2006 in 2006. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The Annual Report on the achievement of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2005-2006 is hereby adopted in 2006. Please, let's get on with it! We can vote! The result? With 84 votes for, 7 abstentions, 9 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u94392	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! At the 56th session held on 14 June 2007, the Committee for the Election and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision appointing the president of the National Committee. The president of the National Committee is named Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u94393	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it! Please vote! The result? I find that with 101 votes for and one abstentioned Zoran Milanovic has been appointed president of the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations with the European Union. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u94394	At the 56th session held on 14 June 2007, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia. As a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia is appointed on 24 June 2007 at the proposal of the National Council for Higher Education, Rudolf Cvitovski.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u94395	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote! The result? With 98 votes for, two abstentions, Professor Rudolf Cvitovski was appointed member of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development Board of the Republic of Croatia. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u94396	At the 56th session held on 14 June 2007, the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision to appoint and suspend the mandate of members of the National Health Council. 1. For members of the National Health Council is named Željko Rajner, Zvonko Pusić, Miljenko Krapović, Mate Ljubic, Krešimir Glava, Stojan Polić, Jasna Lipozenčić, Branka Vizner and Zdenka Gizdić. 2. Up until now, members of the National Health Council Dragan Dekaris, Zdenko Škrabal, Branimir Kvorištec, Slobodan Lang, Branko Bakuli, Michael Virag, Zdravko Ebling, Miljenko Krapovic, Mati Mihanovic, has ceased his term of office over four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-15-0.u94397	Okay. So that's the decision where it was changed at the request of MPs and MPs, so the minister, the ministry, placed 3 Ladies and gentlemen, as candidates for the National Health Council. [[Intruder: Women.]] I'm voting the motion, I'm opening a debate, yes, yes. I'm closing an unopened debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision as a whole. We can vote. The result? The decision made by 95 votes to four abstentions and one against. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is over. We continue with Tuesday's session, Tuesday's debate on the proposal for a law on foreigners and after that with the Asylum Law Proposal.
