ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92246	Your Honor, Mr. President! I have one proposal and a request from the Croatian party right club, and it concerns the Mesic-Zagorec affair. There are also legal and other objections to the role of the Office of the President or President Mesic in connection with this affair. And I therefore ask for an indication of the State Attorney General and the Government of the Republic of Croatia's report on the role of Saša Perkovic, adviser to President Mesic on this affair. Whose authority was he? Was he the President of the State or the Attorney General? On whose behalf did he offer, if the information that is in the media is correct, that Zagorec is offered the status of penitent or abandonment? And if he was the authority of the President of the State, is that in accordance with the Constitutional Role and Task, or with the constitutional powers of the President of the State and with the legal powers? Because as far as we know, these are the powers of the Attorney General. It's an important question, to resolve these objections and doubts in public. And that is why we are looking for means that such a report will be delivered to the Croatian Parliament mainly on the basis of a report by the State's Attorney General. So institutions have to work, there's a trio of government. If this information is correct, then it is the interference of the Office of the President or the President himself in the judiciary which is not legal and constitutionally permitted. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92247	The rights and duties of the President of the Republic of Croatia have been established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the Constitution also established the relationship between the President of the Republic and the Croatian Parliament as a legislative and representative body. Therefore, relations and relations with the State's Attorney's Office, the judiciary, independent judicial bodies as State's attorneys have been established. And on the media speculation and speculation of the yellow vulture's press, I don't intend to look back. State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92248	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the Financial Insurance Act with the final proposal for a law. This is one of the new laws in our financial system. Its purpose and purpose is, in one part, to implement in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and, of course, to resolve and enable better business on the financial market in terms of the use of financial insurance. In particular, the objective of the law is to regulate specific rules for the insurance of financial liabilities by financial instruments or by means of financial assets made up by financial market entities. As we know in the financial market, the financial market is one of the very complex, sensitive areas in which every segment is very important as much as possible to work out more detail to achieve the greatest stability and security of each participant in the financial market. In fact, the law removes formal obstacles to the performance of financial insurance or financial liability operations by means of financial instruments. Legal certainty increases, credit risk decreases, facilitating cross-border transactions, strengthening the capital market and the financial system as a whole. What is also very important for the financial market is to make it as transparent and as easy as possible to carry out transactions. The law therefore makes it easier and faster to carry out financial transactions, easier to access entrepreneurs by means of financial means and to regulate their rights and obligations. This law excludes financial insurance operations from the application of a specific provision of the bankruptcy law in the sense that all financial security instruments that are given and located in a particular firm entering bankruptcy do not enter into bankruptcy but first need to settle those financial instruments and financial collateral instruments to which these financial instruments are given. So, the debtor is obliged to pay for that financial insurance what we say in the jargon according to the financial collateral, so that these collaterals are fulfilled. And only after that goes into bankruptcy, what is not done in that transaction. In this way, we are those who provide financial security or those who receive financial security gave them legal certainty to when, to be sure if they gave credit, if they gave certain financial resources for which they had received the instrument of insurance, that they would, under that instrument, receive those funds and will not depend on the procedure, a long-term bankruptcy procedure because it is mainly financial institutions that are in the process. The law also regulates the procedure and the institution of a special publishing law which the Law on ownership and other real rights does not prescribe for the purpose that recipients of the instruments of insurance are, most often, banks under such a publishing law may use and dispose of insurance instruments during the life of the insurance, clearly under the obligation to return them to the insurance provider at the end of the life of the insurance undertaking. In fact, this law also protects those who provide an instrument of insurance. So if a citizen has pawned the mortgage, if he has therefore provided certain collateral for the credit he has received, he is certain that at the time when the loan expires, when he has fulfilled his obligation, when he pays his debt to the financial institution or the bank, then his instrument will then be a mortgage or something else released from the burden and in that sense he will be certain that after that he is returned to the insurance instrument. The provisions of this Act shall comply with the obligations laid down in the Financial Insurance Treaty independently of the opening of a bankruptcy or initiating of a liquidation procedure. It shall also determine the validity of the Financial Insurance Agreement as regards the moment of conclusion or entry into force or the time of delivery or the acquisition of the instruments of insurance. The law also prescribes entities of application. Application entities are Member States, National Bank, central banks of Member States, international financial institutions, all domestic financial institutions, credit institutions, investment companies, insurance companies. Users, therefore, are subject to the application of pension funds, bodies carrying out compulsory health or compulsory pension insurance activities, natural persons when participating in transactions with those financial market entities etc. What is important to note, therefore, that the law is very short, it is proposed to enter into force from 1 January 2008. It mentions once again increasing the security of the financial market, increasing business transparency, allowing therefore faster and better quality of business, and in this sense, since this is a law implementing part of the acquis, so we propose that the law be adopted by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92249	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92250	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Final Proposal for the Financial Insurance Act. The adoption of this law means the implementation of certain legal solutions which are in force in the countries of the European Union, and thus in any case Croatia receives legal legislation which it has not so far had and introduces standards that apply to the European Union. As is known, we have developed systems of hostage rights on movables and real estate. These are the rights where creditors protect and ensure that their search is carried out on real estate or on movable property. This means that, if a certain obligation is not fulfilled, the believer has the right to settle from a stockpile of movable property, either through a court or through a public notary. There's also an institute of fiduciary ownership, it's a transfer of property to real estate for the purpose of securing demand. And these systems are already quite stalking us and these systems are quite regulated and by the Law of Property and other real rights, the Law of conduct, and that is something that is extremely useful. However, this opens up new opportunities, this in any case enriches our legal system because these regulates the rules for insurance of financial liabilities by financial instruments or by means of money. Therefore, after the adoption of this law on the financial market, we will have new institutes where financial claims will be able to be provided by financial instruments and these insurance instruments are financial instruments or funds. The law is quite short but it seems very clear to me and are very correctly defined by all institutes. Thus, we have in Article 2 precisely defined terms financial insurance transfer or establishment of a specific type of security on financial instruments or financial assets for the purpose of ensuring financial liabilities. We also have the exact definition in the same article of what financial instruments, shares, whether or not appropriate securities, bonds, debt securities traded on the securities market, shares in joint investment companies in transferable securities, money market instruments, other unrealised securities traded on the securities market and which give the right to acquire shares. Exchanges and cheques are not considered financial instruments. Also, in law we have defined which entities to which this law applies. The circle of these entities is quite wide, such as credit institutions, investment firms, insurance companies but also means all other parties to the financial insurance contract may be other entities and natural persons but only if they conclude a financial insurance agreement with the entities listed in this Act. It is also defined in which form the contract must be drawn up for financial insurance. He's not so to say too formal, not sought, not exactly the law prescribed which all the ingredients he must have. The important thing is that there is written evidence of the creation of such a contract. The law also specifically discusses insurance for financial insurance through the establishment of a special publishing law and insurance by transfer of the insurance instrument. Therefore, the known one difference where the beneficiary of that financial security can be used and available with these financial collateral during the insurance of its demand. And secondly, he also knows that other institution of asset law where there is no possibility of making use of available but only when his claim is reached and it is not met. So the secretary of state has already explained actually all the other important professional details of the laws. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law and we believe that this is a significant contribution to regulation of such issues on our financial market and throughout our legal framework. This will definitely regulate some of the issues that are not regulated today, and so we will fill in those legal gaps that we have in the legal system, based on the foundations of a solution that is valid in the countries of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92251	Thank you. For the SDP club, respected deputy vice president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92252	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I would like to express my doubts on this proposal for a law on financial security and, in this respect, to make a number of remarks that may give us the basis and constitutional and legal challenge of this law. But before that, allow a few things that would be interesting to say as well. It is not an appropriate form of work or the adoption of a law under which, in order to implement the directive, some of the Directives, any European Union would pass a law under which the fundamental laws adopted by this Parliament are put out of force in relation to the subject matter regulated by that law. Namely, this Financial Insurance Act introduces a new publishing right and practically, in that domain, entirely out of force puts our Property and Real Rights Act. The second thing we would like to point out is that financial business entities, which are also business banks, even if they were European, Norwegian or any other, African, American, when investing capital, this law deprives them of their right to assess the risk of capital investments, I am a little cynical, because they are free of full responsibility for the risk of investment, given that bankruptcy laws are not fully applicable to these transactions. The question is, is it really possible to do this by law? Thirdly, on behalf of the Club, we would like to point out the fact and also challenge which arises from the reasons for the proposal for a law which is called for in Chapter 3.9 of the financial services point 3.9.1. of banking and as regards coordination with the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the Council since 2002. 47 EEZ. I would first like to point out in this context that this directive and the understanding agreements are related to the banking part, however, to a different problem and should have been adopted as part of the project discussed within the framework of the National Bank with international elements and entities and, of course, to our special act on credit institutions implementing the Council of Europe Directive. The law on credit institutions should then include all creditors and all creditors and could not go in such a way as to aim, and I would like to remind myself that this insurance agreement applies primarily to public rights persons in accordance with Article 3(2), which says the following, which is, I quote: central banks of the Member States of the European Union, the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the European Investment Bank, the International Bank for International Observations, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Financial Corporation, the Inter-American Bank for Development,... the development bank, the African Development Bank, the Council of the European Redistribution Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank, the Caribbean Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Fund and the Inter-American Investment Corporation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia, its funds and banks shall be considered in the Republic of Croatia as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. You see, first of all, the question arises whether the Republic of Croatia... Not as the holder of sovereignty, not as the holder of the legislative authority, but as the holder of the business capacity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where it appears as the legal owner of the funds it invests with other entities, it may have a special position in relation to all other entities in view of our Constitution. And then, of course, mostly from that and all these banks that I mentioned earlier. We would like to remind that in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia it is said, Article 49: "Employment and market freedom are the cornerstone of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia. The State shall ensure that the legal position on the market is equal to that on the part of the State as well as to all entrepreneurs. Prohibited abuse of a monopoly position and so on. Article 3 The state promotes economic progress and the social well-being of citizens and is concerned about the economic development of all its... and the rights acquired by investing in capital cannot be reduced." It is also prescribed in Article 50: "It is possible to restrict or confiscate property in the interest of the Republic of Croatia with market value compensation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Entrepreneurial freedoms and property rights can be extremely limited by law in order to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, the nature of the human environment and human health." And look at the wonders, instead of protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia, protecting nature, protecting the human environment and human health, we make a law that needs to protect all foreign investments in our country and that have absolute protection. In fact, they are protected as our people say who faces bears because domestic legislation does not apply to them despite the provision that the laws will actually apply to these contracts if there is a dispute, procedures with us. Of course and why? Because those fundamental laws governing these areas will not apply because they are exclusively... The law is now asking the question and what law to exclude the Law on Financial Contracts from the Property Act? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what's the financial contract? Well, that's the subject of the Mandatory Relations Act. And so on and so forth, in particular, we're not talking about it. This actually shows one particular segment if we can say so in the subject's mind or in the position of a child compared to these entities that want to be realized. Special position and special protected position. Or if you want to be more specific, it can be compared to the unfree, but it can't be compared to the sovereigns. If sovereigns do so, they actually accept that they are the subject of the second or third order. The issue would be very interesting to promote from the point of view whether these banks have such a position, for example, in certain European Union countries, in relation to companies that they also finance through their business banks, the headquarters of these companies. Because the fact that here, I say again, paragraph 2 of Article 3 says that these are then Croatian, Republic of Croatia, as I said, the Croatian National Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, banks and housing savings, the company for the insurance of investment and pension funds, the company for the management of these funds, brokerage companies, the central depository agency and so on. Therefore, for all of them, when this insurance contract applies, financial insurance will not be subject to the provisions of the Property Act, the Banking Act in the case of failures by individual undertakings and individual and financial and legal institutions which are also concerned. Fifth, what's the subject of the Financial Insurance Contract? It is now said nicely: “Financing instruments are shares, they have adequate securities, bonds, other debt, securities, etc. of course, this law on transitional and final provisions says it applies from the day of entry into force, thank God that it is so. But the fact is that a large number of our companies, our banks, have huge parts of the stock fund and shares in the conversion and privatisation of our companies. And those companies that are extremely significant in the Republic of Croatia and which, by calling on that fact tomorrow, can enter into financial insurance contracts with international entities where, as an instrument for the insurance of these financial contracts, they will be shares and shares of those undertakings owned or deposited by those banks. Gentlemen, if this happens to me with that revision and the results of the revision of illegal conversion and privatisation after that and the attempt to return it to the Fund of the Republic of Croatia we come to the chess-mat position, because we will practically do nothing, regardless of whether we want to carry out such a criminal or bankruptcy procedure can be realised for a simple reason because these financial insurance contracts will not be subject to the bankruptcy law, the Property Act will not apply, etc. etc. Sixth. What is the right stemming from the Financial Insurance Treaty relating to a new publishing law. It's the right to use and the right to dispose. And then what's left of your property is, say, shares, securities, shares, etc. In Roman law it was called “the offer of yus” or it remains a naked right, because in fact the content of the right has another. Therefore, in this situation, we first ask that an emergency procedure be removed from this bill, that the debate on this bill be conducted in the first reading, that after the debate in the first reading to the second reading, we take another look at this situation that we are in and try to get to some results first. (a) to comply with the Constitution before its adoption. b) to ensure and respect the interests of the Republic of Croatia and its economic operators and to place them in an equal position, while respecting the interests of which we are. c) that banks as business entities are placed in the same equal relations with all other entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia not only from business, but also from the aspect of carrying out business risks both domestic and foreign, and also from other financial organisations starting with funds through residential cooperatives, etc. c) We have no objection to the introduction of a new publishing law in the Republic of Croatia, but not by the Financial Contracts Act. If necessary, let the debate be opened on the amendment and addition of the Property and Real Rights Act. After such an amendment, let these questions be settled and that we can only then pass the Final Bill proposal in the second reading. c) In such a situation, it is quite clear that a debate must be opened not in the case of the general exclusion of the bankruptcy law in such matters, but whether or not the bankruptcy law will actually apply. It's one thing if you get out of not knowing the International Bank for the Reconstruction and Development of Loans that you're investing as a public institution, as a public authority holder. And the second is if it is a business part of the entity and a specific move that can occur, for example, with some of the international or domestic funds. In such a situation, risk sharing must be. d) The law must ensure an equal position, and therefore we believe that it is not good to adopt the Financial Insurance Contracts Act, but should, in accordance with this material as it states, and how we have committed ourselves to adopting the Credit Institutions Act, which should regulate credit relations rather than financial insurance contracts. Credit relations are something else. The financial insurance agreement is only one of the segments of credit relations and in such a situation it is quite clear that such a solution that we have received as an offer would not be acceptable to deal with it immediately and by emergency procedure. For all these reasons, I repeat, we, as a club of representatives, are proposing, and we ask the promoter to accept that this law goes into first reading, that these serious issues, these serious issues, are enlightened until the second reading, and that in the second reading we adopt a law that will be in the interest of both our economies on the one hand, so that it is brought into line with the acquis of the European Union. And what is particularly important, not to be a brake, but to be a new instrument for the development of business, credit, and relationship between us, our financial institutions and, of course, European and world institutions. And the last thing, you know, no matter what we do, if we don't accept this, if this law were to be passed, I'm just not getting into the depth of the arguments on certain issues because it's impossible in 15 minutes to indicate some constitutional-legal issues that the doubt is certainly going to end up in the Constitutional Court if this is how it is left, proposed. We must not forget again the fact that the Financial Insurance Act excludes the fundamental laws that this State makes, which regulate specific civil and legal relations such as the Law on Property and Real Rights or Business, or economic relations such as the Bank's Law. Because of all these things, we are asking that an emergency procedure be taken down and that we discuss this law in two readings and that this law comes into the second reading at the session, at the first session, the autumn session in the autumn, because it is impossible to fix it in five, six days to make it as it is, and in particular that it would be in line with the National Programme for Accession of the European Union in 2007 concerning the Law on Credit Institutions, not the Financial Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92253	Thank you. HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92254	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government, the Croatian Party's right club cannot support the proposed Financial Insurance Act, with the Final Bill and we are also looking for a first reading today because if we were to adopt the Financial Insurance Act at this session in the text offered to us, this means the next unfavourable for Croatia, meaning the fall and the last minimum line of protection of Croatia's financial sovereignty. The message is addressed, not that there will be no revision, conversion and privatisation of banks given to foreigners, but that they will be protected from any new conversion, or revision of conversion and privatisation. Let's remind ourselves that we have invested 15 billion euros to resuscitate banks, after which these banks were sold for a billion euros, today these banks are worth 40 billion euros. The fact itself already speaks enough about how and how privatisation was done, i.e. first conversion and privatisation of banks. Who among you would invest 15 thousand kunas in some 15 thousand kuna project and eventually sell it for a thousand kuna. I'm sure a normal man can't do that. Therefore, if we want to send a good message to the Croatian public that the issue of the conversion and privatisation of banks is not resolved, that the state audit will have authority and that part will be found to be legally possible in this part as in other parts of the State's audit that have been established in relation to the revision of the conversion and privatisation where it has established illegality and irregularities that it cannot become legal then we cannot pass the law in this form because if it were to pass it, it is again subject to foreign banking and monetary institutions, with other rules being introduced in relation to domestic entities for them, and this is truly unheard that this law would be derogenous to the bankruptcy law and to derivate the Law on ownership and other real rights. As far as this is going, where this is going to lead, whether we have national dignity, whether we have the strength to say that we can't give every reason why foreign banking and banking institutions are being harajoved to Croatia and that they are always protected that their capital as such, which is basically capital if we are real, Croatian citizens because they got told about a billion euros we got from the sale of business banks, they are currently worth 40 billion euros and 100 more if we take those foreign reserves of Croatia that amount to over 30 billion euros that they are also located in foreign banks and that these foreign banks place our money to Croatian citizens and earn interest, this is proof of what monetary policy is going on in Croatia and which is essentially rising. So there's no way we can support a legal text like this, and we suggest that you either withdraw this legal text and not justify it as P.Z.E. harmonising with the legal gains of the European Union that another country would accept such a part to bring its citizens, to bring its financial institutions to a level that we no longer have any financial sovereignty and what little we have now would lose to this end. So the adoption of this law would be devastating for the future and in response to the revision of the transformation and privatisation of banks and all the illegalities that were made in that part. So either withdraw this law or agree to go into another reading, but we must protect the interests of Croatian citizens, our monetary interests and we cannot set double rules, one for Croatian citizens and the other for foreigners, with the party back in a privileged position. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92255	Thank you. An individual debate. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative of the Mato Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92256	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. There is no doubt that this law deserves to be discussed. It is certainly important, it refers to important matter, but it also raises some important questions that have already been raised here. I won't say it again, but I'd like to point out the following. Such a law is true, it does not exist or there are only partial solutions in us, and so far it has been successfully regulated matter that deals with this law. At the same time, we kept having problems of that kind and failed to solve them. There have been various attempts on financial security, but they have not been successful enough. From that point of view, it can be said that this directive and this law are actually going towards a problem that is objectively present and that needs to be solved in Croatia. But here, as we see it, we stress that we put financial security, the technical instruments that apply to it, anyway. and that the legal and overall solutions which would effectively do not conflict with Croatian laws, Croatian basic laws concerning these and other important issues. Because as far as we can see, that's the basic intensity in the direction that should be further working on this law looking for solutions. Otherwise, it is doubtless that such a law and such a European solution relating therefore to financial security would contribute to legal certainty and a reduction of credit risk. I would certainly add two other objectives that are very important in relation to this law, which relate to facilitating cross-border transactions and strengthening the capital market, but, of course, always on the criterion that this also takes account of its own interests. When I say that, I'd like to mention two more. This own interest in us is, above all, exports, support for export activities, and then facilitating cross-border transactions that can be current here, has weight. In fact, anything that simply regulates the basics of economic and financial life to a greater extent favours imports than we support exports. Exports are well-charged by the state budget, in stores you can find natural onions from China, pods from Canada, etc. And there are no 2, 3% of our products and every law must come from criteria to strengthen our position on our market, but also the position of our entities on the external market. In this globalisation which Croatia cannot stop will undoubtedly suffer particularly the poor and especially those who are less capable of technological exporting and every law must pass the solution that we bring to our interests. The second thing that I think is to point out is that there is indeed a problem for the believers in us, that we are traditionally more concerned with debtors and care for them than about the believers and those who have created something and passed on to others and that we therefore need to support the intention to find a further solution that will contribute to the financial legal and any other security on which the European Union directive is on which this Law is based, but that we have a constant problem of applying the rules that is being made. Even when there is no doubt that the regulation is in place, in the application that is being realized in us, there is a problem that eventually turns against the interests that have led to the law. So I would like to support further discussion and further further up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92257	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92258	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here I am, I must admit that I am partly surprised by this intense debate and I am extremely pleased that this financial law and we have such an intense debate. First, about bank conversion and privatisation. This law has absolutely nothing to do with it. It does not apply here in Article 13 of this Law to the relations which occurred before the entry into force of this Law. So there is absolutely no word about this that this Law would change or prejudge any changes related to conversion and privatisation. The second thing, related to the esteemed representative Arlovic when he spoke about the Credit Institutions Act, was also the national programme found that the Credit Institutions Act, i.e. in preparation, was therefore the national law-making programme for the following year, so the Credit Institutions Act next year will be made. He was in the final phase of making in the Croatian National Bank along with the Ministry of Finance and other institutions, and of course it will fulfil that part of the agreement that the distinguished representative Arlovic spoke of. But it seems to me that the MP has forgotten one important thing that this law wants to settle, which is the stability of the financial system. The stability of the financial system that we want to have fully stable, so we want the financial system that we know to be extremely important for ensuring economic growth and for the normal work of all our entrepreneurs here to be extremely important and, of course, in this respect, financial institutions most often appear as creditors and in this sense they need to be protected. What is said, therefore, this area has not been regulated so far, it has been arranged in a partial manner and thus, by adopting this Law we want to fully regulate this area and I am sure, therefore, that the law directly implements the acquis so that the law does not put anyone in an unequal position, but ensures the security and stability of the financial system. So when we talk about certain other laws being placed in a different position, we know that the financial system has a series of laws specifically governing the financial system in the Republic of Croatia, from the Banks Act, the future Credit Institutions Act, to the Pension Funds Act, to a series of Investment Funds Acts. So every law in a certain way particularly regulates this area, regardless of what we have the Law on Commercial Companies, etc. So, in this respect, there is always a question, so special protection is needed specifically for this area that we are talking about, which is the Financial Insurance Act, or what we are talking about in the jargon on the financial collateral. Therefore, all those who make their supplies, either collateral or or provide their debts, we think of the creditors and those who therefore make sure that their supply, therefore, is properly treated and will, of course, be returned to them after the end of the financial obligation. Therefore, also related to other international financial institutions, it is said here that they are subject to the provisions of this Act, and that these provisions of the law will apply at the time of Croatia's entry into the European Union and apply to domestic financial institutions. So, regardless of what we have a number of foreign-owned banks, most of them except for the large Croatian postal bank, the other 5 banks are owned by foreign banks, they are domestic banks because they operate in accordance with domestic laws, they are subject to Croatian National Bank decisions and in this sense they cannot be said to be foreign banks. They are foreign-owned domestic banks and as such have the obligation. It's also not just about banks. It's about insurance companies that, as we know, are mostly domestically owned, it's about other financial institutions, institutions' funds, pension funds. Therefore, in this respect, a number of financial institutions operating most normally on the domestic market. Therefore, the Government remains in an emergency procedure, remains with this Law, thinks that this Law is a very good solution to this area, and in this sense we propose that the law be fully supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92259	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Financial Insurance Act. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, amendments. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. Here you go, table.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92261	The first amendment is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92262	It becomes an integral part of the law. The other one?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92263	The second amendment is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92264	It's part of the law. Third?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92265	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92266	It's part of the law. Fourth?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92267	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92268	It's part of the law. Fifth?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92269	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92270	It's part of the law. Sixth?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92271	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92272	It becomes an integral part of the law. Seven?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92273	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92274	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 73 votes for, 18 abstentions and 4 against, the proposed law was adopted in the text as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted. As regards - - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z.E. No. 707 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on energy regulation, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 710 - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the electricity market, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 711 I propose to propose some representatives and clubs a united debate. Consent? Okay. Then comes a united debate. The Proposer of the Law is the Government. It's an emergency procedure. Amendments to the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, Economy, Development and Reconstruction and European Integration. Proposer representative, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Vladimir Vrankovic will further explain the proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92276	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Let me briefly just refer to the proposed amendments and amendments to the law in question. Lately, the characteristics of the energy sector have been major changes, primarily in the legislative and regulatory framework and strong support for wider use of renewable sources. The reason for this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws is that they are subject to the necessary, minimum changes that are urgently needed in order to comply with the legislation of the European Union and to align the new laws and sub-chapters that have been adopted in the meantime. The very reasons for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of energy laws are as follows. Exceptionally important and demanding changes in the energy sector caused by the restructuring and introduction of market relations, which is why market relations and market participants are related within segments of public services and the relations and responsibilities of the body of institutions including the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry, the Agency must, without delay, clearly and clearly regulate and adapt to the emerging situation. In particular, it is necessary to remove the obvious ambiguities and to develop before the solutions and segments of the existing legislative and regulatory framework are worked out. The demanding process of adapting Croatia's energy legislation to the acquis requires the European Union to work towards further harmonisation of energy legislation in order to better reflect the requirements of the relevant directives and regulations of the European Union when it comes to the energy sector and the energy market. Since December 2004, when significant changes to the energy legislative and regulatory framework in the Republic of Croatia, including all the laws mentioned above, have been made to this day by a new law on the gas market and a number of sublegal documents that were necessary to bring together and bring them into line with each other. There have also been some changes in European Union regulation, and the most important are Directives 2005/89. The European Community and the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers on measures to protect security and supply of electricity and infrastructure investments. The main objectives and contents of the amendments and additions to the first Energy Act are to define the expression of the overall content of energy activities in the gas sector as market activities, and the activities carried out as public services, in accordance with the provisions of the new Gas Market Act. Next, the introduction of the obligations of suppliers of household appliances and distributors with regard to ensuring the energy efficiency label, information list and technical documentation relating to the sale of household appliances that use energy for their work. Introducing opportunities for legal persons and natural persons i.e. craftsmen may, under equal conditions, obtain a permit to carry out any energy activity that enables equal competition and the development of entrepreneurial freedoms and legal and physical persons under equal conditions and constitutes a full implementation of the applicable EU Directive in all energy activities. Exclusion of energy operators carrying out the energy activity of production, distribution and supply of heat from the rules to keep special business books for those activities and to draw up specific financial reports, but respecting the principle that they are separated from all other activities in order to avoid unnecessary administration. Then the introduction of the possibility that, with energy entities, a proposal to amend tariff items may also be requested by the Agency as an independent, independent and expert body which oversees the application of all tariff systems and the work of energy entities. Finally, the introduction of the obligation for the Government to provide once a year reports on the security of energy supply and the expected energy needs in which the electricity and gas sector will be united according to standards in other Member States of the European Union. The basic objectives and contents of the amendment and addition of the Energy Regulation are as follows. Clear demarcation of transactions with public authority from other agencies. It then shows the regulation of the rights, duties and responsibilities and the conduct of the President of the Governing Council, members of the Governing Council and of the Agency as a whole when it comes to the conduct of public authority within the scope of their competence as well as professional and other non-public powers. Regulation of the rights, duties and responsibilities of professional leaders in charge of conducting professional work in the Agency. Introducing direct responsibility in the management and management of the Agency, the Management Board of the Agency and the Agency's professional services in a way that is evident in order to regulate the level of management. Strengthening the professional, organisational and personnel structure of the agency. A clear regulation of the issue of responsibility for planning work and business, establishing the implementation of the Agency's work programme, realising financial plans and procurement plans, estrangement of assets, implementation of projects and studies that are being launched and so on. Ensuring the competence of professional leaders and professional work in the agency by selecting the manager through a public tender. Ensuring the continued, high-quality functioning of the Agency's board of directors by gradually replacing and completing the members of the Governing Council in order not to replace all members of the board and the problems in operating during the initial period, following the appointment of the entire new Governing Council, and giving the possibility that members of the Governing Council shall not act as sole concern, thus ensuring impartiality in the conduct of public-authority operations. Finally, the main objectives are the harmonisation of labour control provisions and general acts of the Agency with the provisions of general and individual acts governing the system of state administration, the Law on the System of State Administration and the Law on Institutions. Finally, the basic objectives and contents of the amendments and additions to the Electricity Market Act are as follows. The introduction of an obligation to establish, before obtaining the status of a privileged electricity producer, a prior solution to obtaining the status of a privileged electricity producer in order to provide transparent and clear implementation of support for renewable energy sources for electricity generation. A more precise definition of the conditions of procedures and methods of energy authorisation for the construction of electricity production facilities. Introducing the possibility that production facilities for electricity production can be built by legal or physical persons i.e. craftsmen. Introducing that in the construction of production facilities using renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration of specific principles and criteria set out in the Regulation on the use of renewable energy and cogeneration sources. These changes are mainly technical in order to clearly and transparently implement the system of support for the construction of renewables for electricity production. Those amendments, in accordance with European Union legislation, also introduce the possibility that natural persons under the same conditions of production of electricity may also be built by legal or natural persons, allowing equal competition and the development of entrepreneurial freedoms to legal and physical persons under equal conditions. Since these laws on amendments and amendments to the law harmonize our legislative framework with European legislation, it is necessary and necessary that this be adopted in an emergency procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92277	Thank you. Legislative committees? Economy, development and reconstruction? European integration? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. For the club of representatives of IDS, the respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. And the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat. The first will be the respected representative of Walter Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92278	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister. This debate of colleagues and I will share precisely because these three legislative proposals are very important, according to us, the Energy Act, the Energy Regulation Act and the Electricity Market Act. We believe that, under these laws, Croatia has certain opportunities, but what may be even more important has an extraordinary strategic position on the ground of Europe in which it is located. The wealth of a democratic country is precisely that it can be said and interpreted in such a way that it is so rich in how much energy it has, or how rich it is with the sources of natural energy, whether it's oil or it's gas, or if it's atomic energy to the production of electricity. So when I said why strategic position was important. It is precisely because, in this case, when we talk about our country of the Republic of Croatia Croatia, Croatia is very fortunate that the Adriatic Sea enters the heart of Europe, and that part, given that maritime traffic is one of the cheapest traffic we have today can be reached by waterways to our ports, so that the distribution of certain energy sources can be deployed in a way that can move on from here on one side. And on the other hand, also what is thought to come from the land side so that here you can move aboard and continue the distribution of energy in another direction. What I'm saying is that today there's a lot of talk about alternative energy sources as well as alternative fuels. To all of us who are dealing with energy and who are monitoring the development and future of the past, the present and future of energy in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but also wider in the territory where Croatia is surrounded by Central European countries, we know that the mass was a very interesting thing that the media is well following, which all ministries, all governments in democratic countries in Europe support and encourage to use and to work on biomass and thus go simply towards alternative fuels. I also have to say here that there are power plants that are very interesting today that can also be used as an alternative source, but we will all agree together that all these alternative energy sources can be used only in moments and when conditions exist. So, the wind power plant will only produce electricity if there is wind. Also, the production of bio-mass has certainly good properties, certainly it can cover one smaller percentage of energy requirements today in our country, but the production itself of bio-mass must also be used and consumed only by energy that has to be produced elsewhere again. We know that the Republic of Croatia today has a daily shortfall of 30% of electricity, and we know something else that by 2012 practically, if I am well informed, we do not have the possibility to build new power plants, given the development strategy and the conclusions of this Parliament. We know that there are some things we need to change in this, and we know that simply without energy production, in this case electricity will simply not be able to move on and we will not be able to compete with the products that Croatia produces and not towards ourselves on the Croatian market. What may also be very important at this point and I will talk about the problems of the location of the source or production, specifically in this case of electricity. I come from Istria, I come from Labinscina Plomin, Plomin's location. We know that the location of Plomin was determined when the Rasha mine had, there are also today coal supplies, but the use and extraction of that coal is so expensive that it simply doesn't pay off. So import is worth it because it's much cheaper. We know that in the 1990s there were a lot of problems with the level of government in relation to the level of local self-government and the county around the construction or completion of the Plomin II thermal power plant. to coal. We know that at that time there was still the installation of the detour and that, together with the very high chimney, certain things in the very part of the local self-government would therefore be different on the ground from those that should have been much worse for that area at the first moment. Of course, even today, we are not satisfied with the fact that the plant is built on coal, knowing that coal is no longer available in that part of Istria. We know that we were both human and on the ground in the phase of the heart test, but also among the experts, why if we had to work at the Plomin III thermal power plant. on the one hand, to reconstruct the Plomin I thermal power plant, which today works without suspicion, therefore it is a major pollutant on the ground. So how do you solve at least, sort of solve that problem? We know that near the thermal power plant and the location of the thermal power plant pass the Pula-Karlovac gas station, we know that there is enough gas in that area that the Plomin III thermal power plant. if it's ever ever been that it can be on gas and only on gas. And that's what we're up for, and we're sure to suggest to the Istrian County Assembly that if there is a change in spatial-planned documentation, it can only be discussed if the energy in that part is gas. We are talking further and the LNG terminal topics, or natural gas ingested, have been opened. Yes, gentlemen, the strategy will say what's better and the waist will say what's better but let's not afford to have a lobby at this point that can be bad and devastating exactly for the territory it's talking about to determine something else entirely. So, surely and most importantly, the need is that the Plomin III thermal power plant. If there's ever gonna be gas or there won't be gas. This is the attitude in the field, and I believe that this attitude will include people who are involved in energy. I must say that I have attended and participated several times in the debate about the future of energy in Croatia, but another thing that bothers me very much, is that it bothers me that gentlemen dearly avoids our opinion and ask what they think of it as the most poor of experts? I want to say here is a concrete Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, I have not seen or read anywhere that we have their opinion on these proposals or I know that they are involved and that these people are involved in the way of thinking about the strategy for the development of the future, energy in the Republic of Croatia. I believe that it will not stop, that it will still be asked of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the energy sector, what is thought of it? So I'm not taking up much of my time since these three laws are united and I'm leaving my colleague with a little thought to say what he wants to say here. So I agree with these laws, to establish a basic legislative framework for the restructuring and reorganisation of the energy sector. The opening of energy markets and the regulation of energy activities, thus covering the reconstruction of energy subjects and the creation of new legislation and institutional framework. Determination of market rules, public service obligations and separation of energy activities on the market, market and regulated. But what we are talking about now may be very important to say that today we are in such a situation that we are no longer in virtually united Europe east and west. In order to buy electricity on the market today, I can say that it has already started to be very difficult because prices have stabilised or will stabilise in the next very short time. So we see for ourselves that the Germans have big problems with existing nuclear power plants, and that in that part too will depend on a lot of energy development in Europe itself, in which we will surely be very soon. And we from the IDS Club have been advocating it since the beginning. So what I want to say once again. Energy that, in any case, without energy, we cannot move on because today we lack 30% of daily electricity and on the other hand we need to know in which way we will approach and use our natural resources and that is still gas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92279	Now stop only the time, moment one for correcting the incorrect allegations the respected representative Željko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92280	Dear Mr. President, I seem to have heard that my colleague Walter said that there was not enough mass in Croatia for our needs. I'd like to correct that assumption given that one man needs a single space meter. So there was enough mass to use all for energy's purposes. Here's the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92281	Okay. Let the time begin to flow again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92282	Dear Mr. President and Secretary of State who's gone, respected colleagues and colleagues. So here's what I want to stress in these few minutes about the Energy Law and the Energy Regulation Act that perhaps one common feature that has fallen into my eye is that there is a lack of regulation of responsibility and sanctions for responsible persons. In view of the changes in the description and terminology of energy activities, it will urgently need to be harmonised or adopted by the new text of the Regulation on the conditions for carrying out energy activities. I wonder why this has not been done now that we are already harmonising this with European legislation. I think it would be good if it did now. It is good in these laws to facilitate the keeping of business books or provisions on the possibility of production, distribution and supply of thermal energy being jointly managed apart from other activities. It is also acceptable to provide a provision of Article 23 on the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide, once a year, a report on the security of energy supply and expected energy needs but should also be established that the first report is made within 3 months of the adoption of these amendments, as it would be appropriate to first make such a report by the current Government of the Republic of Croatia, and not to leave it to some new government since it has now made and established these tasks. The end date of each year should also be set when the report is to be given to the Croatian Parliament. The lack of the current text of the law and also of this proposal is that deadlines have not been set in which the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Croatia should decide to determine the amount of individual tariff items in the tariff systems. And there's no sanction for making such decisions. In particular, these state bodies make it difficult and do not make decisions at the request of energy operators, which is so-called. the silence of the administration but also the blocking of the work of energy subjects. The real situation is such that decisions on the refusal of a request for a change in the amount of tariff items cannot be duly justified and requests are not accepted and decisions are not taken for a variety of political reasons. Keeping social peace, for example, or wanting to please the electoral body. It is also proposed to establish if the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry does not decide within 60 days on the determination of the amount of certain tariff items in the systems at the request of the entities or the refusal of the application is deemed to have been accepted. And that the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, at the end of each year following the receipt of annual reports and insights into the business of entities, determines the justification for changing the amount of tariff items. Or, in the event of malpractice, it takes further sanctions against energy subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92283	Thank you. The HNS Club is a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92284	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Since these sets, this set of laws in my debate on behalf of the Club, I will only talk about one thing and this is the Law on the Regulation of Energy Activities or on the "ERA", the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, which, after these interventions in the law, is better to get the name of the Nero Contessa because it would then be more relevant to the content itself. Although it has been a very short law, the essence of the change that is proposed and the consequences and which will be implemented or produced by this law for the future of work by the agency is disastrous. It is already in Article 1 that a revolutionary change follows that the Statute of the Agency no longer adopts the Administrative Council, but rather the President of the Governing Council. Can you imagine the Administrative Council elected by the Parliament for five years by a large procedure and protocol, and then the Statute as the basic document of the work of the Governing Council is not adopted by the Administrative Council, but by the President of the Governing Council. Then why the Administrative Council, you'll see later. That chairman of the Board of Directors when we get to the core provisions becomes a despot. We've already got one despot in the power industry. We'll have another one. His Majesty despot. In fact, Article 2 reduces some of the Agency's powers and it is well-covered because, for example, in the new powers of the Agency, there are no methodologies for determining tariff items, tariff systems on which electricity prices are defined. Whose jurisdiction is that now if he's no longer with the agency? What do you think? There is no decision on the construction of new power generation facilities up to 50 megawatts. It's those little plants that can be built in private. It's not the agency's decision anymore. It's someone else's. Guess who? There is no prior authorisation for the construction of energy facilities for the production of heat for tariff customers. That also goes from HERA somewhere else, but you don't know where. Article 3 has so far prescribed the Agency’s obligation, so the Agency is obliged to publish annual reports on the results of monitoring the activities defined in Article 10(2) in order to ensure the principle of visibility, objectivity and impartiality. So far, the agency has had to publish a review report each year, and to what extent the HEP respects the most important fact that it has daughters who are private legal persons who each must book for themselves and where there must be no subsidisation between regulated and market activities. So far, HERA has had the power to monitor and report whether HEP, OPS, ODS, supply, production and trade operate in accordance with the law and whether there is no mutual subsidisation. With the new proposed legislative solution, HERA has no obligation to publish these reports anymore. So he doesn't have to monitor or publish. But he says that in the event of a need, he can conduct surveillance and determine the implementation of certain measures. What are certain measures that HERA could, for example, order HEP and what it would look like in practice. Let's say that on the application of a third legal person, HEP takes advantage of its privileged position. HERA gets a report, and then the board president calls the president of HEP and says, "Don't, don't, don't see this one, they saw something's not right." And this one says listen, well, I'm not being public right now, I'm being a little bit more secret. Then they go to lunch and they agree that everything is actually fine and that this HERA leader has no reason to issue a warrant for the implementation of special measures. And so every year. Article 5, the old law, that the Agency is governed by the Administrative Council. However, the amended Article 5 reads: “The President of the Governing Council shall decide on the financial plan and the annual accounts of the Agency.” What are the members of the Board of Directors doing? This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. At first glance, nothing significant, but what it says in Article 9 of the Law. What does the President of the Governing Council do now? Issues of permits to carry out energy activities, give an opinion to the Ministry of Tariff Systems, give an opinion to the Ministry on the proposal for a tariff item, give an opinion to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal for the amount of accession fees, give an opinion to the Ministry on the procedure and criteria for the selection and construction of production facilities, organise and implement the tender procedure for the construction of production facilities. Imagine! It shall organise and implement the tender procedure, issue a decision on the status, acquire the status of the privileged producer, give consent to the energy entity for the construction of direct water, control of the quality of the service of energy operators. It shall also be responsible for resolving disputes and complaints under point 5. Under Article 12 of the Law, it is authorised that, in the event of the need of a transmission system operator and a distribution system operator, changes in conditions, rules and arrangements. And in Article 13, he also says that he does all other affairs according to the law. If you already wanted to give one man in charge of HERA more power than the President of the Republic of Croatia then you should have abolished the Administrative Council and said that the Administrative Council is pointless, that this is only a great cost, that Croatia does not have 5 qualified people to manage HERA and that is why all of this should be given to one man. And why do you propose to remain a circus by selecting members of the Governing Council when they will only have powers to receive compensation and nothing more. But they can't do anything. They will be paid only to do nothing, as all His Majesty's work will be done by President Galic. Because, by law in the final provisions, a new Statute should be adopted within 30 days, and then the Government will resolve the existing Administrative Council and appoint a new Administrative Council in this term with the new old President who should not have taken all these powers of evil. So stop the Board if you think of the head of HERA setting up a man with despotic powers. Article 8(2) shall be repealed by the Director of the Agency. So, the agency won't have a director anymore, but it goes on. The President of the Governing Council will appoint professional leaders, and the conditions and arrangements for the appointment of professional leaders shall be laid down in the Statute, adopted by the President of the Governing Council. And now watch out, the President of the Governing Council shall adopt the statutes, the Director shall be suspended, in the statutes shall be governed by the work of the Agency, i.e. by professional leaders appointed by the President of the Governing Council under the terms and conditions laid down in the Statute. So where's that? No government body, no public authority institution in this country has such a solution. This is a proposal to strike Hera's independence and the agency will no longer be supervisory and regulatory, but will be subordinated to Croatia's electricity and its administration. But I suggest another savings, that we don't have a president of the HERA Board of Directors, but that these jobs are done by the president of HEP's administration because we already have him, so on one salary, we solve everything. Well, we don't have to pay two people when one of them is actually going to run everything. The director of the agency has been abolished, professional management services are conducted by professional leaders, professional leaders respond carefully to the President of the Governing Council. And to whom does the President of the Board of Directors answer? Vladi. And who chooses him? The Parliament. And who's he reporting to? No one. No one! Is that the agency? Then let's change the name. It's a man with powers of supervision, regulation, determination of truth. It also concerns the final solutions indeed, and obviously it is an extremely capable man who, within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act, will adopt a new statute and succeed all, but all through the summer regulate, resolve the current director, appoint new professional leaders and manage the agency. Why or why such solutions? Who really is the proponent of such a solution? Is this solution behind the Vice-President of the Government of Polancec, the chairman of HEP's management Mravak or the current chairman of the Board of Directors of Dalic? To whom it is in the interest that, in this way, the only boredom of an institution that has seen the liberalisation of the electricity market by the Parliament has the power to regulate supervision, and in particular to prevent the ability of daughters within HEP to pour money into each other, especially those 11m euros that we will receive due to the transit of electricity that must not end up on the HEP gyro budget, but those who are dealing with distribution and it is obviously a great fear that a possible agency of such composition could discover whose gyro budget will be sent to Brussels when they say give us a place to pay 11m euros that would have to arrive in about a month's time in Croatia. And that's why emergency procedure, and that's why abolishing the Governing Council, and that's why giving despotic powers to a man who's actually, as usual, every other day at lunch with the president of the HEP administration is going to solve regulation, supervision and reporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92285	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92286	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed colleague said about Article 1 that the President of the Governing Council is adopting the statutes of the Agency. That's incorrect. The President of the Governing Council, with the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, brings the statutes of the Agency, and yet the Government of the Republic of Croatia is an institution that can afford that freedom to give its consent to the Statute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92287	So, tomorrow, we'll have the Committee on Finance and the State Budget schedule a session today, like other interested committees, and tomorrow we'll start discussing the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2007. We're going back to this debate now. The club of the representatives of the HSS, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92288	Thank you, Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So let me also, on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, briefly refer to the set of these three laws that would have been said so far. Sure as you can see, they're all P.Z.E. Laws. That means it's also a process of coordination. However, this coordination process certainly draws attention to others as well as to this point, so perhaps let me start this debate with one, with one key dilemma that has been present in the HSS for a long time. In fact, when we talk about the total energy of any kind, it is not that important now, the question is, who should really be responsible in Croatia in the right way to ensure the sufficient amount of total energy? So any kind. We all know or at least a large majority of us who have participated in either local self-government or participated throughout a whole series of companies in energy-related processes that are primarily production or supply, however we want to define a long-term process. Namely, all the major producers make contracts for a larger number of years, five, ten, fifteen even. And we have to have exactly that and a clear picture of how much energy we have. For this very reason, and by referring to a debate from the predecessors of Mr. Lesar, we believe that this job should therefore, under different conditions, be given different powers and also be held accountable by HERA. In fact, right at HERA, things should be the most professional, competent people who have to answer primarily of course to the Ministry and the Government, but also to the Parliament for the implementation and performance of their work. But how can this be done if these proposals are still being reduced by the foundation of these proposals? I mean, we can hide our eyes, but that's a fact. On the one hand, the total powers of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency are reduced, and on the other hand, few remaining powers are maximumly centralised in the role of the president of the Agency. Of course it is not good and we are protesting such provisions which, of course, are then minimised by the board of directors and, in particular, I don't know why the Agency's institution has been abolished. So that, in our opinion, is a key observation that responsibility and authority of HERA in some way instead of strengthening us here are reducing. I hope that we will get quality answers not because of the current government but because of the total energy, I repeat it any other time. Similarly, we can look briefly at the provision that determines the distribution process as a public activity, and I'm trying somehow to link it to the role of HERA. It is clear that the distribution process can and must be publicly controlled but on the other hand we are talking about the market again. All these subjects whether or not the legal persons as described here are on the market and they have to function. So that has to be a little bit more specific. What seems to me to be important and not here, better said is not good enough, or enough of that was talked about at least not in some more serious indication, which is how more transparent to resolve the secondary gas network. I've taken the gas, of course, because it seems to me that at this point gas energy is quite instantaneous and because of the gas ingested, location, etc., it's been said for years of course so no solution can be found. But when we talk about the secondary gas network in Croatia, I will naturally take an example of why I repeat that it is not handled well enough. In fact, this Pula-Karlovac bus pipeline was built, but secondary pipelines only have in the hints except somehow the area of Rijeka remained in the hints. It means he doesn't have enough users. For whom we build such large then bus pipelines. It is certainly expected that a greater and more significant role of the units of local self-government is expected and is not defined in any way. So there is a need for a more transparent solution to the problem of the secondary gas network. What I would like to mention is that, among other things, it is seen in this first law in the Proposal to amend and supplement the Energy Act in Article 4, see a little bit. Energy activities within the meaning of this law are mostly related to electricity, of course oil derivatives or gas. And what about renewable energy sources? Look, heat energy, biofuel is mentioned below in paragraph 2. Biogas and bio-mass gas. We're all talking about renewable energy sources, how they're still some kind of future. I understand they're kind of complementing existing energy sources but they should be talked about quite more. It's a trend in Europe, it's a trend in the world, with us. I won't even talk to the wind power plant, there's a lot of talk about it. We have as many good locations, as many problems as you want. We're causing ourselves problems, and if, I mean, who's creating it, then of course they're monopolies. So, what about these renewable energy sources and we need to have them more and more. Here, these were some of I would say more principled remarks which we believe should have been better agreed and resolved because it is not crucial in this law if the distributors of household devices are defined in fact traders that energy efficiency must be specified, further information sheet. These are things that standards are everywhere in Europe and I hope they will be, in fact, there are such standards with us, and it's not something that's just in the hints. Even, it's not even a questionable introduction of a legal and physical person actually a craftsman on equal terms. That's all correct and good. But I repeat, these few key things, and especially the role and importance, responsibility and authority of HERA, are crucial. We repeat, HERA is currently on the sidelines, it's not good. The board is also out of office and we choose it here, it's not good. And certainly, we would like it to be more responsible and more authorised, given the concentration of professional personnel in HERA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92289	An individual debate. Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92290	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The adjustments to energy legislation to European energy legislation as one of the conditions on the road to Croatia's membership in the European Union are extremely significant and certainly cannot be compared with that story of three or four leaves in the cauliflowers that I am building on, in this House of Higher House, have been deliberately commenting on as a whim there by some European officials. When it comes to energy, experience learns that we are rarely mistaken about a cheap individual energy at that point, not thinking about possible long-term consequences. Let's just remember the '70s oil crisis. Oil was cheap, really cheap. Many have put it to sleep and suddenly there has been a shock of a huge price hike with almost inconceivable consequences. The supply of energy, energy must be secure, must be regulated to the smallest detail and, when it comes to the Republic of Croatia, to the application of all the benefits of energy European legislation or legislation in the area. In the end, therefore safe supply of balanced prices, long-term security is inescapable and the message of the slogan "with energy rationally". It's just I'm convinced of that underlying problem. The Act on the Market in Electricity, the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, the Law on the Market in Gas, the Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities, the Law on the Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy are a series of laws that regulate these issues in addition to other regulations adopted under the Energy Act. The energy market in the Republic of Croatia is increasingly opening this necessary timely change of the legislative framework. This results in the implementation of energy activities in an incentivising manner under the rules of the energy market which are marketable or in accordance with the rules for those energy activities being carried out as public services. In accordance with a series of Directives of the European Union, amendments and additions to the Energy Act have been proposed, and these include: defining the expression and the overall content of energy activities in the gas sector as market activities and activities carried out as public services. Obligation of home appliances suppliers and home appliances distributors to ensure the energy efficiency label. In addition to legal persons and natural persons, a person may, under equal conditions, obtain authorisations to carry out any energy activity. This authorisation is of course a condition for the implementation of that energy activity to be started. The proposed amendment obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to monitor security of supply for electricity, gas and heat. Opinions on the proposal for a report shall be given by the Energy Efficiency Agency. Why emergency procedure? Two reasons are given. The need for alignment with the acquis of the European Union and a dissatisfaction with the degree of liberalisation and openness of the energy market. It is precisely this emphasis on liberalisation and openness of the market that I find extremely important. As regards the Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities, there may be nothing to add other than commenting or stressing a passage that speaks about doubts about the Agency, about jurisdiction and so on that such doubts are not spared either... regulatory bodies in the Member States of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Changes where they are fast and frequent all in search of adequate solutions conditional on complex and demanding issues. The electricity market law is one of a series of energy laws no less significant than the previous two that are being discussed here. The electricity market law was passed in 2004 and followed by sublegal regulations, noting that new ones are being prepared from the substantive scope of the Electricity Market Act. Of course, the amendments and additions proposed are conditional upon compliance with European Union directives. In particular, the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the electricity market, as well as the Directive on the promotion of the use of electricity produced from renewable energy sources on the internal electricity market, and the Directive on the improvement of cogeneration based on the consumption of useful heat in the internal energy market. These regulatory frameworks in the field of energy are of great importance for the start-up of the economy, i.e. in general for the economy. The process of building electricity facilities is liberalised in the sense that a legal or natural person can build an object without prior authorisation to carry out energy activities. In addition to this right, a legal or natural person may acquire the status of a privileged electricity producer, thus obtaining the right to an incentive price by applying the tariff system for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources and cogeneration, which is particularly significant in a highly efficient way. A legal or natural person is required from the Agency to come up with a prior solution on obtaining the status of a privileged electricity producer. Based on this, bank loans can be made for the construction. In order to build electricity production buildings, it is not necessary to obtain prior authorisation to obtain energy activities in electricity production. It is precisely an emphasis on objects that use renewable energy sources and a highly efficient cogeneration that justifies the adoption of these proposed changes and additions with the approval of the slogan on "with energy rationally". Because with energy, the maximum rational need is both in production and consumption. This is why these changes are welcome in the belief that they will be an incentive to build objects that will use renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogenerations. And I certainly support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92291	Thank you. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92292	Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It is important that we coordinate this energy law package because energy legislation is also an important segment when negotiating membership, Croatia's full membership in the European Community, the European Union. The important thing is how we coordinate it, the more important it is how we use it. The European Commission has already launched a debate earlier this year on further reforms in the energy sector of the Member States of the European Union, i.e. the third package of legislation. The process is expected to be completed in the autumn of this year, followed by the adoption of the specific European directives that we also apply in our legislation. Notwithstanding the final outcome of the debates held in the European Union in this segment, significant changes in the energy sector are also expected, including those concerning regulatory agencies. In my presentation, I will refer only to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities. Further strengthening of the powers of those agencies is expected, in particular on issues concerning interested countries, in relation to interconnective waters and problems with their use and opening of regional markets. The establishment of a supranational regulatory body is expected to be established, which would also be given certain powers in all matters. I'm saying this because in this segment, we're actually focusing rather unilaterally on the Law on energy regulation. The powers of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency are relatively small at the moment. To a large extent, it comes down to giving an opinion to the ministries and the like. It is certain that the adoption of new European directives will again give rise to a lot of important reasons and the need to reconciling our legislation. Unfortunately, in this bill of law we're currently discussing, we're not dealing with it. We are only dealing with a peripheral problem or solving organisational problems in the agency. I'm going to say that on several observations, examples and observations specifically of this law. Since the law bears the mark of conformity, it is adopted by emergency procedure. However, it would be better if he were to go into regular procedure and make more serious coordination so that, therefore, there is now only a proposal here to resolve internal relations in the agency, and to establish more effective work. Thus, it is proposed that the President of the Governing Council, with the consent of the Government, adopt the Statute, and not as it has been the case so far, that this was brought by the Administrative Council. The Agency shall be managed by the President of the Governing Council as an individual and shall also assume the role of the Director of Professional Services. Of course, he also runs the Board of Directors. The powers of the president are extremely high. Article 5 of the amending law has been amended, where it, among other things, adopts both the financial plan and the annual accounts of the Agency. As for the other members of the Governing Council here, it is now possible that they can be professionals, as well as volunteers who will be employed outside the agency itself. This amendment shall be adopted in accordance with Article 6(9). A change in the choice of members of the Administrative Council is foreseen on the principle that, following the adoption of such a bill, existing members are elected in time from one to five years in accordance with the order set out in the Decision appointing president, deputy and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. However, there is no order. The selection of professional leaders through a public tender is also foreseen for a period of 4 years with the possibility of re-election. What are the remarks here that should actually be made? It is not common in European regulatory practice for such powers to be concentrated in the hands of one man. This significantly reduces the transparency of work in the decision-making process itself, and raises the question then the general purpose of the existence of the Administrative Council as a collective body in which they can be either professionals or volunteers. For example, in Slovenia, the director of similar agencies also has significant powers, but he is not president of the Governing Council which consists of volunteers and where the President of the Governing Council is actually a respected scientist from that area. But he's not even a member of the agency, so he's not employed there. Our proposal leaves the possibility of members of the Governing Council being either professionals or volunteers, while the chairman of the Governing Council is also a professional director of the agency. Some experts have warned us that the choice of members of the Governing Council under the proposal proposed in this law is not, in fact, the practice of the European Union but of the United States. When it comes to the appointment of members for that period of one to five years. This can be discussed, but its implementation in terms of the duration of the term of office does not actually have objective criteria or is not resolved in this law. We now have a situation that all members of the Governing Council are professionals selected for a period of five years. This will also raise the question of the position of current members who are still in office after this law is passed. So they will be, their mandate will be suspended and a new Administrative Council will be elected. The proposal for amending the law is overly focused on changes to the internal structure of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency in such a way as to increase the powers of the President of the Governing Council, and no change in the regulatory framework is considered at all, i.e. increasing the role of the Agency in line with the announcements of new European directives. So I think that we should have a discussion in two readings and that in the second reading, we should actually have something broader to explain how it works in other countries. Therefore, to substrate organisational solutions in the countries of the European Union or our neighbours who are members of the European Union, and after a more detailed analysis, we could then be defined as one perhaps more appropriate solution for us, and not to transfer large powers to one person in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92293	At 11.30, the time for the application for a ten-minute debate was up on these agenda points. Replica. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92294	Well, the problem of energy is certainly one of the strongest problems of modern society, and here these days, the government has just decided that each household stands out three, four kunas more for the development of alternative energies. No one has any objection to the development of alternative energies, but I wonder why the government puts it on the back of its citizens in moments when it boasts that the inflow into the budget is bigger than they expected, so I don't understand why it is now going to put more pressure on households than the government of the same enriched and infused budget money itself singles out of the alternative energy development budget. It occurs to me that this isn't the beginning of maybe the realization of that famous Sanader program three times seven, but in a very unusual way, beating citizens on the back with new intrusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92295	Three times seven is twenty-one. Honorable representative, and the board is. Replica. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92296	So, fellow Jurjevic, you are surprised that the government from a budget that will now be increased by five billion kunas cannot single out funds for the development of alternative energies. Our government likes to increase its obligations through a few fiscal burdens to citizens. All we can think of is a famous water contribution to Croatia's investments which are so necessary that investments are in fact diminishing citizens' opportunities for their own investments, but also for companies and local communities. So, nothing new.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92297	Under the sun. Honorable representative Nikola Sopčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92298	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The adoption of amendments to the Energy Act will create a comprehensive and quality framework for all other regulations in the field of energy in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. With its adoption, we bring this regulation into line with the European Union directives and this with the Directive on common rules for the electricity market, for the internal market in natural gas, on the promotion of the use of electricity produced from renewable energy sources. The Directive on the promotion of the use of biofuels as well as other renewable fuels also defines the terms and content of energy activities in the gas sector, defines the obligations of suppliers and distributors of household appliances to ensure energy efficiency, information sheet and technical documentation, and all related to the sale of devices that use energy for their work. In addition to the legal basis of this proposal and natural persons, under the same conditions, authorisation to carry out any energy activity as well as the principle that a legal or natural person may start carrying out an energy activity only on the basis of a licence to carry out the same activity. The proposal to amend the Energy Regulation Act establishes a new organisational framework and action of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. This removes the observed shortcomings in the applicable law, which regulates the work and operation of the agency itself. The Energy Regulatory Council established in 2001 as the predecessor of today's agency did not provide the basis for the organisation of the regulatory section so that this agency, established in 2004, could act as an independent and expert regulatory body. This proposal for a law provides for the necessary reorganisation and definition of the structure, the way the agency itself works, thus regulating the demarcation of the public powers of the agency from its other businesses. The rights, duties and responsibilities of administrative bodies and professional managers of the Agency itself shall be governed, thus strengthening the competence of the Agency itself. The proposal amending and supplementing the Law on the electricity market establishes the duty of a legal or natural person who is evenly equal to that of a privileged electricity producer prior to obtaining the status of a prior decision on the acquisition of status. It is also possible for legal or natural persons who have not been authorised to carry out energy activities to meet the criteria set out in the energy authorisation procedure for the construction of production facilities to build energy production buildings. For all these reasons, I support the adoption of this package of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92299	Thank you. Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92300	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This is obviously a non-essential topic for the Parliament, and here comes two clubs, and the third one seems to me, and they came to me, and here I am the third individual debate. She's basically and as she's presented, she's irrelevant, because what's it about? It is that we are harmonising laws with the European acquis, the European acquis, and so it is said here whether there are two arguments, so in two laws of reasoning, there are in short several important reasons for the urgency of the process, and then the withdrawal needs to be brought into line with the acquis of the European Union, and another withdrawal is unsatisfactory to achieve a degree of liberalisation of the openness of the energy market. That's two reasons. And when you look at those two reasons, obviously the debate is illusory and it's not too important, but the question is, what's behind the plate is whether it's hidden. The question is what is behind the board, especially in this second paragraph. What does liberalisation mean for Croatian citizens? What does that mean? Did the secretary of state or someone here explain to us what it would mean for Croatian citizens over the next 4, 5, 10, 15 years, what we're going to have? Do parliamentary representatives know the state of energy in Croatia? So, except for that finding that's already heard here that 30% of our energy is being imported. I guess it's 30% power already. The question is this other one, how much do we even have? I think we're close to 50%. And those are questions that I'd like to hear the answer to. It seems to me that this liberalisation, please do not get me wrong, I am a liberal, means the possibility of collecting electricity, because colleagues who side across the street, so the ministry knows very well that in Italy, electricity is twice as expensive as in Croatia. It's the right state of things. The average energy price in Italy is twice as expensive as in Croatia. The question is the day when such things will happen with us, when, surely, they will not be in the pre-election year now because it is being settled in the first year of power, tariff lawyers are not being passed 3 months before the elections, but the fact is that if we accept all European rules that we will have to accept the price or get close to that price, especially what we import, which is a lot of energy we import. It's something the public should know or at least the MPs of this House, and by the way, since many here, a few of those who reported up were talking about HERA. I'll remind you what I was saying when it was the Hera Act. So before that, it was before Hera's there was a council. That council numbered 6 or 7 people, HERA today is about 50. I was saying back then that that's how it's gonna be and that's why it's done. We always clearly cover ourselves with obligations towards the European Union, and HERA, its president, is a man from the system, from the electricity industry, from HEP. All problems are not solved close to this as it says, but are solved on the 7th floor of HEP if there are problems, and you usually have no problem with that, because the president of HEP administration comes to the Bane Courts and solves everything here. When he returns from the Ban Courts, he has his own opinion, otherwise he has no opinion. It's actually the state of things that happens today in HEP, and so thanks to both world and European opportunities, thanks to rain years, we don't have a reduction, we don't have a problem yet, because that's how much oil accumulates on the world market again, something calms down, so it comes up, and it's getting closer to some normal price again. And Croatia still has no problems with the other, which does not mean it will not. In our system, we obviously don't control it, because if we were to control it, we wouldn't have this many stories about gas pipelines, about Adriatic society, about the problem of transferring or connecting all these energy links between Europe and this part of Eastern Europe at the very least not to say and beyond, but to be here really some kind of landlord in that system. And I'm afraid our time has run away and we haven't done anything here, the question is whether or not we're going to take over. Here, that's something we'd have to talk about, otherwise if you're watching these laws a man has nothing to say about them, especially when you're looking at explanations why they're being brought in. Who's ready here? Not even Pero Kovacevic. It votes against something that is consistent with the European Union. I can't. But I wonder what the times ahead are like when we get along together. And citizens should know what it is. By the way, I'm paying for electricity because I'm heating up in Split, and I'm paying for gas because I'm heating up on gas in Zagreb. You know what the relationship is? The ratio is 1:4. It's four times more expensive in Split. Will we just rhetorically have that gas in Dalmatia here, it was promised in 2009. You know where we are today? I don't know if we have any paper and an environmental impact study. I don't know what that gas will be spent in when it comes down, because according to the laws of hydraulics, that gas if you don't have a big consumer can't come. You'll fill the pipeline and stop. What are we, where are we, and how far away have we gone with this? There's something the all-knowing prime minister says and promises, and that's how I don't really understand it, because unfortunately for me, I'm an engineer, and that's how a man knows everything. And these are some of the troubles that come from these laws. I'm saying that we should know a little bit more about it, and I guess one of the people here will come forward to explain things a little bit. By the way, only one who is energy independent is the master of the situation in his country. We still have a chance for approximately another of what we have hydropower still about 6 billion kilowatt hours, another 3 billion, two, three billion built. We have the possibility of a smart builder and a thermoelectric power plant giving concessions to the construction of a thermoelectric power plant, but I'm afraid there's someone else in this country thinking about. He's thinking about selling what's a national fortune and not thinking about using that foreign capital to invest in new production facilities. And after "Plomina" and business with RV, nothing really happened on that plan, and that was a long, long time ago. A long, long time ago. The last decisions on the construction of a thermal power plant other than the "Lesce" hydropower plant, on the construction of power plants other than the "Lesce" hydropower plant, were made long ago in 1984. A year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92301	Thank you. Five replicas. Honorable representative Walter Poropat, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92302	Your Honor, Mr. President! Well, I completely agree with what my colleague Marasovic said that this topic is very important or that he finds it strange that very few clubs have come forward for discussion. It's very simple, by the way. The country's strategic position is very high if it is practically energy independent. And the example itself can be seen in the former G7, so G7+1 and now G8. And who's talking when? Does he speak first or does he say second?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92303	The reply to the replica, the respected representative, Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92304	That's more like sparrows making sense of what energy means? Energy means life, energy means politics. Putin is today the world's first figure of politics not because the KGB is being beaten either because it is Putin, but because Russia has energy, which Europe is dependent on Russia and without Russia there is no life for Europe. And that's quite clear. On the other hand, with that potential, here's how much more I hear payoffs are all possible debts and London, Paris and Roman clubs, and it's more and more cost-effective, and Russia starts practically without debts, and you see where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92305	Second Replicated representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92306	A colleague of Jakša Marasovic! You're surprised and you're asking a question, what's going on with our HEP and who's with him and how does he manage? You also asked the question of costing electricity? So why do you wonder? You are probably not familiar with the 2004 data, from April to April 2007, the latest data on how many new people have been employed here is an example only in the Pereca work unit. There you will see an excellent display that almost 1/3 of new people have been employed and beyond the needs, past the competition, contrary to the law and to the opposite of the Law on Defence, so they were not given the opportunity or advantage, they did not even know...... I don't know why you're upset. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] These are the exact data from HEP itself, so look. I'm not talking in my head. And the data is also that more is a working man and women in Croatia, so men and women have to eat other than pensioners and how many are the number and three thousand new employees in the administration and in companies in which the property or primarily has state property. And that's why they're collecting different services in one way or another, so they're collecting the whole country together.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92307	The reply to the replica, the respected representative, Jaksa Marasovic. Will you answer that question astounding workers and citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92308	Mr. President. My colleagues, Ingrid, have not opened new plants, nor have some new jobs opened up. If this government reduces unemployment, it must employ existing capacities. Well, clearly, I'm surprised at your question. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92309	What a surprise in the world. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92310	A colleague, Marasovic, said the president of HEP, is going to the Bane Courts and comes with his own opinion and I think the country's strategic problems should be a partner relationship between the government and state-owned enterprises. However, what is problematic in this whole story is that a lot of the presidents of the administration of our state-owned enterprises are taking an opinion in the Bane Courts. What is problematic is that after that decisions taken do not have much to do with the economy, the profession, for example, enters and exits the highway, some competition etc. You'll agree to such goings by thinking and thinking are not good, but if it were partnered, it would have something to do with life. It seems to me that this government has achieved its full purpose. In this way, when it comes to the opinions of the Bane Courts, then the Prime Minister is responsible for everything that is good and if something goes wrong, it is usually the presidents of the administration and their sometimes supervisory boards.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92311	And is it unconstitutional to go to the Ban Courts? The reply to the replica, the respected representative, Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92312	Mr. President, I have to do it again, I don't understand Mr. Korenik. Because watch out, the Prime Minister knows everything, he doesn't need anyone, he doesn't need a government. So he's gonna tell Shuker to charge taxes on a TV phone from Slovakia, and then Shuker's gonna issue a solution, then the prime minister comes here and by the ears what you did to me, you load one. So, the prime minister is a man who's all-knowing, who knows everything and to me is, I'm in... context told. [[I don't understand the speaker.]] It's good that they come for their own opinion. Imagine they're working on their own so that only then would they be.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92313	How it's one agreement and it's nice to hear the confession that the Prime Minister knows everything. And the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic is the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92314	Dear Mr. President, I have a replica of Mr. Jaksa Marasovic's presentation. ... You'll get your turn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[I don't understand the speaker.]] First, I need to replicate this part of the president of HEP going to the government. There's no big difference there before. True, he used to go to the Croatian Fire Institute because Goran Granic used to do these energy things there. So, it's just the difference where he's going now. Now he's going to the government and he used to go to the Croatian Fire Institute, you know it best. ... Yeah, it was that way we know everything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the problem is that here you don't care about general interests like it hasn't been before, then it's being led to the Croatian Fire Institute and beyond. And now that you mention me about our vote and my vote. Look, we at the HSP club, you say if you read all the materials, we read all the materials that come to the Croatian Parliament, we vote on conscience, we vote on whether something in the general good Croatian citizens, not interested lobbys were banking, there was money, and if you were on the first wheel then you'd see that it's a worse situation and that's the proposal for a law on financial insurance but unfortunately you weren't unlike the rest of us in the assembly all the time. And I can tell you that I am not impressed with the European Union if you think it impresses me, first and foremost I am in favour of the well-being of Croatian citizens and then we can also talk about the adjustments to our legislation with the acquis of the European Union but not about the adjustments that are made to the benefit of certain members of the European Union or of the European Union, which is not part of the acquis such as various laws that appear here. We will vote on our conscience, not as they tell us from the Office of the President or elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92315	The reply to the replica, the respected representative, Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92316	Mr. President. My colleague Kovacevic, I know that you read everything, that's clear to me, I get it. To know everything and to read it all, I see you're wearing those book packages. But it doesn't matter what you read, it's important to read what doesn't say, that's the point. And now that a man's reading here, it's all really nice writing. We're all for the European Union, I've put in a questionnaire for you. We're all for the European Union and that's what it says. But what doesn't say is the problem, that's the trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92317	How will you read what is not written?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92318	That's what you and I know.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92319	And the Honorable Representative of Jakša Pavlic [[Intruder: Not Jaksha.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92320	Here, I would like to answer to Honorable Representative Zeljko Marasovic for your return. Dear Mr. Jaksa Marasovic rightly warned of the danger of increasing electricity prices and the risk of the cost of transition and privatisation being transferred primarily to the back of users. Citizens. The price of kilowatt hours in the Republic of Croatia is 38, and the average price in the European Union is 60 euros in those old Member States and, therefore, with 25 members throughout the European Union is 59 euros. So this is where Mr. Marasovic warns of the possibility of raising the price of electricity. In fact, the opposite should happen because in Croatia the process of expanding the status of authorised customers in the Republic of Croatia takes place, so that in this year 2007, the status of a privileged buyer should be obtained by entrepreneurs and in July 2008, the status of a privileged buyer should be obtained by all electricity users. The Energy Act tells us what a privileged customer is. It is a customer who acquires that status under the law and who can freely choose from whom to buy energy. Therefore, it is assumed that more electricity providers will appear on the market and that customers will then be able to choose which electricity they will offer. Whether or not this will happen has therefore asked Mr Marasovic the same question, given what is happening to the rise in electricity prices in this and other way year by year, I think we will be witnessing that the price of electricity in Croatia will be higher than unfortunately today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92321	The reply to the replica, respected representative Jaksa Marasovic, who became a star of replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92322	Mr. President, my colleague Pavlic called me Zeljko. I am the first child, I was wanted and I was Željko and I was thinking about changing my name because my denominator is the father of all conversions and privatisations, Jakša Barbić. So I thought about it, and then I wondered if I'd call myself Zeljko or Vlado. I decided to stay after all, Jaksha. [[And what did you decide?]] So my colleague gave me one creamworth about privileged customers. In Croatia there is one happiness in the accident that we destroyed the Long War,... So instead of building new objects, we don't have consumption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So one over there 40, 50 megawatts and over here 50 megawatts, and for us these privileged buyers, they're socialist whether, who had the power of half-wits, we're lucky that they failed. So there are good things in that conversion, but don't let God do it. So we took the Aluminium Mostar. And I would find it very interesting to see the contract with Aluminium Mostar and the supply of electricity Aluminium in Mostar. That would be very interesting, but how can I not ask because one of my questions the prime minister replied: "Well, don't tell me that question again. You have to ask the other side.". Then I won't even ask again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92323	Who asks doesn't wander. Honorable representative Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92324	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State, Professor Tomsic. These 3 laws we also consider what counterpart Marasovic said to be very important and that they should be spoken of precisely for the reason I spoke on behalf of the IDS Club, which is that the one who is energy independent is the one who has energy, but also the one who uses more types of energy so that in the event of a crisis, any energy source always has the opportunity to cover at least part of its energy market. What's also important is where you are strategically at that point. Croatia is geostrategically well positioned when we are talking about the Adriatic Sea entering the heart of the European Union. And then there are questions about how and how to get the energy. We know that no matter how much we talk about alternative speeches and alternative energy sources today, it's always in the first place oil and gas. And he's in Europe, he's coming to Europe mostly by sea. I'm talking about oil. Gas comes from Russia or the Far East. What am I saying that for? I say this because alternative fuels and alternative energy sources are relatively small to cover the needs of today's population. We know that a wind power plant can only produce electricity when the wind has five to ten megawatts. I will also agree with those who are, and I am also, that the mass or biogas is used to the maximum. But for the production of biomass, we need new energy, some other energy to produce a mass from which we will then produce energy. So these are energy sources with which we can only mitigate possible shortages but at no time today we can't say that they are the future. They are the future for covered holes to say so, but no basic sources. And it's important. It is also important to know that Croatia needs 30% of electricity imports today. We also know that we do not have the opportunity to build new power plants by decision of the Parliament. So we need to go to the talks on how to get new sources in this case of electricity. I have to say because I'm emotionally connected to the location of Plomin and to those unfortunate 90s when local self-government was ignored in the way that it wants to be solved, or how to solve energy for the Plomin2 thermal power plant. I believe and I am sure that by respecting Professor Tomsic, who is one of the main strategists in the Republic of Croatia for energy, I believe that there will still be a solution to the profession in case it is possibly going to Plomin 3 to take the gas. Just because it is the most environmentally acceptable, which is the closest gas source near the Plomin site, Pula-Karlovac gas pipeline passes only a few kilometers from the Plomin thermal power plant. Also infused natural gas is certainly able to be found on the ground from Plomin to the entrance to Raška Bay. On the other hand, Green will probably accept the way in which the thermal power plant uses water and sea for the cooling system and gas in the "drop" as such cools the water and needs water for its own, then there is a balance between these two temperatures. We know today when it comes to renewable energy sources, alternative energy sources to interpret things differently in Europe as well. Let us take the example of France. Former President Chirac advocated that nuclear energy also enters environmental energy sources. The question is what Sweden says about this, which is practically 90 percent or over, of its energy coming from nuclear energy. So the question is, what does technology or technology mean? The problem of nuclear energy is its waste for which there is no solution and, of course, technology that can provide security and what it all ultimately means. So I said energy independence is that independence if you have energy but also it if you use more energy sources. We saw what happened when, when problems with Russia, Ukraine, or Belarus were on gas pipelines that lead Russia to their most important energy. So the most important energy in the European Union is exactly Russian gas. And that's how they grow and price and then market every day everything, in this case less and less disappears. For what? For the simple reason that you became addicted to that source. However, when we talk about the electricity market, this law, which is proposed, will resolve the duty of a legal or natural person, i.e. an energy entity, to establish the status of a privileged electricity producer prior to obtaining the status of an authorised electricity producer. Second, the possibility that legal or natural persons who have not issued an authorisation to carry out energy activities, the production of electricity, which meet the criteria laid down in the energy authorisation procedure for the construction of production facilities, shall build buildings for the production of electricity. However, the electricity market must work in a way that we have someone who produces electricity and who buys it. However, respected gentlemen, we must take into account the social component at this time and in the price of electricity. Therefore, we are not all able to pay electricity at the price at which electricity is sought, but at that very price we need to install a social component, and on the social component, the government, or one who has been given the mandate to help in such situations. In this case, I believe that not specifically as the location “Plomina” is a professional lobby, but rather a professional lobby, not a lobby of one, second or third energy. And I believe that then the Istrian County will go on to change the spatial-planned documentation that can be used and used in the tar natural gas as fuel for the location of the thermo power plant in Plomin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92325	Thank you. Replica. Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92326	Mr. President, fellow Vice President. There's no energy without victims of these or those. We can talk and talk about environmental protection, about nature protection. But there's no energy without victims. And when you talk about renewable sources,... Only that we don't have the energy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I just have to remind you now, let's say that in the late '50s and early '60s, those semi-literate partisans were building large hydro facilities and they were all on oil, oil. You know, there were very few people who had light bulbs. Was it like one of Lenin's industrializations or... Or something that was an even stronger vision and a bigger vision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But today we're in a situation where there's no energy, there's no energy. There's no energy without casualties! All the alternative sources you see in Denmark. That's where I think they've reached one higher percentage. And it's expensive and it costs a lot and a question of what it means to you, in a small percentage. But the way I see it lately, trends are that alternative nuclear, so I guess we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92327	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92328	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course I can agree that there is no energy without victims, colleague Marasovic. But I can't agree that we don't have a source. We have gas sources with which we can work things out. I'm not saying that we have gas sources at this point for export, but that I have gas sources specifically near the Istrian coast, that with that gas we can very well use, we can use it as fuel for the location of the thermal power plant in Plomin. And I'll agree with you on alternative sources. With alternative sources, we can cover certain holes, we can cover certain gaps, but in any case, the main sources of energy are still the ones that are very important today.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92329	Thank you. Five-minute debate of IDS MPs, respected representative of Dorotea Pesic Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92330	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the debate itself, and there is also a lack of coherence and a lack of responsibility, as well as a desire to centralise power in the hands of certain individuals, and there is also no adequate solution to the silence of the administration and I think that it should be better determined according to the reports and deadlines that should be done according to the Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and HERA. I come from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, where we have a thermal power plant, two refineries, JANAF, the coal landings in the Bay of Bakar and I wonder if we really take care of our pollution as a country, that is, to take care of that we are both a tourist country and that we should really see which fuels we should, which fuels should have priority. However, as regards the very Law on the Regulation of Energy Activities in relation to the earlier text of the Law, the position and role of the President of the Governing Council is very strengthened and the importance of the members of the Governing Council is reduced. The President of the Administrative Council shall, of course, have the authority to adopt most of the important roles, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Administrative Council. Only in Article 7. The proposal of the Energy Regulation Act, i.e. in Article 19, explains in more detail the work of the Governing Council. We believe that this will overcentralise the work of the agency and, despite the necessary consent, concentrate power still in the hands of certain individuals. I dare say you're giving certain lobbies power in your hands again. Likewise, what I have said about reports and deadlines should certainly be decided by the Government when to submit reports to the Council of the Republic of Croatia, and we also propose that it be established if the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry do not decide within 60 days on the determination of the amount of certain tariff items or if they refuse to apply, then it should be considered that the request is accepted, if it is not of course rejected within a certain period. Although it is not prescribed by the proposal of this Act, we believe that an amendment to Article 28 should be made and the responsibility of the Agency and the responsible person should be determined if he does not act in accordance with Article 27(3), within 60 days, if he does not respond to the energy subject's written request on matters relating to the regulation of its energy activity and are significant for its business. I don't think we can really tolerate the administration's silence for months not responding to demands and that's one very important item that needs to be set by the Ministry itself and also by the Energy Regulatory Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92331	Thank you. HSP club, five minutes of debate. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92332	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, highly respected gentlemen from the D.A.'s Department. Leading on energy and on these laws that change our structure of energy market regulation is indeed a responsible thing and I would agree with those who say that there has been insufficient debate in the House. Of course, if the energy system of a country is wrongly agreed, then the energy disasters that occurred in California in 2001 are possible, as I warned here at the High House in the previous assembly during the debate on the energy sector reform strategy. So what's this about? That California lesson is more than important to us. California went after decades, after almost a century to fully liberalise the market and to privatise the energy sector. It happened that there were only a few energy producers left on their energy market that were no longer interested in growth and development, no incentives from the state, consumption was growing, production was not invested and ended up all together with power cuts there in January 2001. After that it went back to... The system, but the price of energy and gas and electricity went up several times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it didn't happen in a third-world country, it happened in California. That California lesson I mentioned here, but it's good to have it in mind when we talk about these laws. So every reform of the energy market must work very carefully to ensure that it remains intervened, remains in the service of Croatian consumers and guarantees stability to the Croatian economy. Everything else is completely irresponsible. A pro post particularly favourable conditions for electricity producers, i.e. for privileged producers. It is of course that Croatia needs more energy, of course that the increase in economic growth is closely linked to increased energy consumption, but you will be forgiven for the purpose of destroying the Good River Valley with the construction of the Lesce hydropower plant in order to get 1% of the energy required when at the same time 11% of the energy is lost on the outdated electricity transmission. We are also wondering why it is necessary to go to such an amendment to the Energy Regulation Act where unlimited powers are granted exclusively to the President of the Council which, or to the President of the Board, is headed by the Agency for the Regulatory of Energy Activities. It may have been simpler for gentlemen to call the law on the authority of the president of the agency's administration, because it is only about him and his unsuspecting powers. Let me remind you of the chronology. In the previous meeting of the Parliament, the Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities was adopted where there was a council at the head of everything that had no professional service, so for each and the smallest part of the decision had to go to... after the study. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this assembly, you have changed it anyway, so you have done the right professional service, which is good if we want to have a serious regulator, but let's not go to another extreme now and concentrate so much power in the hands of one single man. As for the third law in this today's package, which concerns the rest of the oil gas ingested terminal and ingested natural gas, it is good that this is finally regulated legally, we think it would be unserious to go for such a big procedure, and I would say even a historic procedure in our energy without all of this being expensive legally regulated. Of course, it would be good to also regulate the obligations of those involved in this project to take care of the appropriate sources of such a terminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92333	Thank you. I am finalising the debate on the three final drafts of the law. We're going to the polls. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary Vladimir Vrankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92335	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92336	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The result? With 85 votes for, 5 abstentions and 3 against the adopted law along with the accepted amendment. We are going to the next point - the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Transport and Transport Engineers, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 705 Proposer of the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Constitution, Rules of Procedure, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links and European Integration. State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Drazen Breglec will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92472	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Chamber of Transport and Transport Engineers with the final proposal of the law. So, with eleven so far, we are proposing the establishment of the Chamber of Transport Engineers and Transport Technologies. We also propose that as a legal person, they will have this status with public powers which are the most important issue and renewal and withdrawal of the authorisation for the operation of allowances and licences and the exercise of professional supervision over the work of members of the chamber. On the basis of the proposed law, therefore, the Croatian Chamber of Transport and Transport Technology Engineers is established and this need stems from a constant increase in the volume of all modes of transport and the complexity of the work of transport engineers resulting from the intensification of safety requirements and transport protection. Then, through the outcome of the need to make more and more complex studies and so far experience in joining transport and transport engineers in project and inspection teams has shown a number of shortcomings and problems. Namely, these engineers had no public authority to design and expertise, and thus reduced their responsibility for the quality of the embodies and projects carried out. The proposed law prescribes, among other things, that it is an independent and independent professional organisation, that transport and transport engineers who carry out such a law are bound to join it, provided that they meet the requirements for enrolment in the registers of authorised engineers. So these conditions include that he is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, that he has an adequate diploma... the study, that it has passed an expert examination which will be defined by the basis of the Regulation, which shall be the time limit of the adoption of the year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law also sets out the public powers of the chamber which are detailed. And also the structure of the chamber body, which is the assembly, the board of directors and the supervisory board. It is also a way of funding that will mainly come from the membership fees of its own income, and for the first year and initially from the state budget. The minister will call the founding assembly according to this proposal and thus the chamber will be able to start and act. So much for this opening address. For further questions, we are at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92473	Thank you. The committees? Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. Vice-President of the Committee, Honored Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92474	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! At the 69th session held on 4 July 2007, the Maritime, Transport and Transport Association Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Chamber of Transport and Transport Engineers with a final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 705, which was submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the proposal for a Law on the Croatian Chamber of Transport and Transport Engineers with the final proposal for a law as a home working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee accepted the proposal to adopt the law following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening presentation was given by a representative of the applicant who pointed out that the proposed law established the Croatian Chamber of Transport and Transport Technology Engineers, which must be associated with transport and transport technology engineers who meet the conditions laid down in this Regulation and which, by enrolling in the registers managed by the chamber, acquires the position of authorised engineer in the profession and approval or work licence. The need for the establishment of the chamber was created by increasing the volume and level of all modes of transport and transport, intensifying the safety of transport and transport security, making all the more complex studies of traffic-related projects and elaborates and human resources as a key factor in the process of transport. The proposal stressed that the law is in line with the 2005 Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications in order for transport and transport technology engineers to also have public powers to design and analyse, thereby bearing responsibility for the implementation and operationalisation of project and expert solutions. ... Discussions The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament has unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the law in question in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92475	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, a respected representative of Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92476	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! It is obvious that in Croatia, however some lobby may be slightly strengthened, you are immediately in the Croatian Parliament of the Government to propose a law establishing some of the chambers. The fact is, and this law goes with this lead because by reading the explanation of the establishment of the chamber I have to admit that it's quite a thin argument that, that we have a lot of problems in building, for example, roads, traffic projects, and that we should then have engineers who have public authority to pass certain laws. What is interesting for this law when you look at 35 articles of the law itself, for 29 articles, it is in line with the legislation and the directives of the European Union, 29 of them are not applicable to this law. It seems to me if I've calculated correctly three articles are fully harmonised and four articles will be, are partially harmonised and will be harmonised when the statutes of this chamber are adopted. But what's most important now, when we look at the general provisions when we define what professional affairs this chamber is to deal with, then I can ask and ask you now, but also the promoter, we know that the Transport Study in Zagreb is both interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary. However, what is put into the jurisdiction of the professional affairs referred to in paragraph 1 of this Law is being engulfed in other professions and I do not believe or I am almost certain that traffic engineers are not qualified to carry out such things. For example, it is said to examine the quality of built-in materials. If we have construction materials that are installed in roads, for example, if we have the quality of the railway infrastructure, for example, testing the quality of rail tracks, I am not convinced that traffic engineers are qualified to examine such things. There are other things, I don't think that can be part of it. In addition, we know that Croatia has joined the Bologna process in higher education. I can ask if this is only about graduate technology, transport and transport engineers, in which way we will define the jobs for which there are higher schools or which are studied at higher schools or high schools. It seems to me that we forget or at least in the proposal of this law we forget that there is an application of the Bologna Process and that we should then agree on professional names because we also talked about it when they were proposals for the establishment of some other chambers. It seems to me that we have enough time to agree to this because I am asking the promoter whether we do not have a traffic study at the Croatian universities dealing with the problem that is being studied in this law. For example, since autumn, a study of transport logistics has started at the University of Varazdin. In what way will those who finish three years of studies at the university. There are plans to go to three plus two years of high school studies in Varazdin, in which these persons will be included in this study. And an expert study, meaning there is a professional study at university which is just one part of the competences that are placed within this chamber. They will also be studied and the persons who finish those studies will receive diplomas that are quite appropriate to join such a chamber, but this law in the beginning makes it impossible for them to do so. We are here saying that only persons who have completed a university study can join or pass exams and come into a chamber like this. We propose on behalf of the SDP club that the vote on this law or that the government come with its own amendments or which might be better quality and better to withdraw the government and prepare the whole law by the start of the autumn session. The second thing that says about something with this law is wrong and that some lobby obviously wants to take a good part of the cake for itself is Article 5, where it is said that the chamber, among other things, in collaboration with the colleges and the competent ministries, organises professional training of its members. That's well imagined. Just gentlemen, I'm asking you, I'm asking all of us here do you think that in the context of transport and transport technology only at the Faculty of Transport Sciences can talk? If we have expert studies at universities, if we have institutes, if we have other professional institutions, can't they also participate in the professional training of chamber members in cooperation with the chamber. As things stand here now, we only have a narrow group of engineers in Croatia and a narrow group of people who have completed their studies, we allow them to participate in this. Whether it's targeted, whether it's intentional or we have some other and more quality arguments than they are here. It is also said in this law when we look at Article 4 that the chamber also gives public authorities an opinion on the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of technology and transport acquired in other countries. So someone who acquires a qualification at a professional study abroad about him will be able to declare himself to the chamber but to the one who ended up in Croatia there is no word about it. In addition, one of the important things that are missing in our opinion is the criteria of Article 21, which are very clear and precise criteria on the basis of which the chamber will assess that someone cannot or does not meet the requirements for enrolment in the register of authorised engineers. I can understand that it may be given by sublaw and the statute of the chamber, however, for such an extremely important thing where it is still a matter of being able or unable to perform a particular job, and at least in the most important outlines, it would be good to prescribe it by law. Because this chamber will probably protect itself. However, the criterion is then, everyone knows the prescribed rules of the game in advance. I am in no way questioning the moment when the chamber is established, when it has a congregation and all its bodies that they will not work for all of it. However, it is obvious that someone defends his exclusive right to something, so we fear that it will all be defined in that way. All in all in hyperinflation or let's say the inflation of the establishment of chambers since we've also been legal in the Road Safety Act, for example, that there must be a road construction project that has to exist, absolutely certain that it's good and that there must be an authorized public authority. However, given everything else, since building, for example, the road is multidisciplinary. However, the main part of road construction is the construction project and we here in Article 1(2) point out once again. We're putting things that are affecting one piece in the area of construction, one piece in the field of electrical engineering, one piece in the field of engineering and some other professions, and it seems to me that then this paragraph 2 should be revised, because then there seems to be no reason for me to have the authority to design such as transport, technology, transport and transport as members of another. Or, for example, that instead of establishing a chamber it can be one branch or one part of a building chamber or another because in this way other than hyperinflation and chamber formation... We're going to have a few people afraid and it's going to stay as old as it is because a tight circle of people will have the opportunity and the right to deal with how they design and all the others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our proposal is if the Government agrees to hold this or postpone the vote on this law until the Government, with its amendments, corrects these remarks that we have spoken about, or perhaps even a better solution to go to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92477	Thank you. For the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92478	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the Republic of Croatia, there are a number of cases where the law requires the association of persons who carry out the law of certain professional professions or activities, along with professional organisations, etc. the chambers, along with the Croatian Bar of Law and the public recording chamber, which were established by law as a public service, the law established 11 other professional chambers. Thus established chambers have legal personality status and have the law of a certain public authority, including the most significant issue, renewal and withdrawal of authorisation for the operation of a licence, licence and professional oversight of the work of members of the chamber. The need to establish chambers of transport and transport technology engineers comes from a constant increase in the volume of all modes of transport and transport, the need for increasingly intense security in transport protection, the creation of increasingly complex studies of elaborates and projects related to roads and means of transport and man as a key factor in the transport and transport process. So far experience on the integration of transport engineers and transport designed in expert teams has shown a number of shortcomings and problems. Namely, these engineers had no public authority to design and expertise, thus reducing their responsibility for the quality of the labs and the design of the projects they were working on. The proposed law stipulates that the Croatian Chamber of Technology, Transport and Transport Engineers an independent and independent professional organisation with the status of a legal person in public authority entered in the court register, that transport engineers who carry out certain professional transactions in all forms of transport, pipeline transport,... the transport of logistics systems if they meet the prescribed requirements for enrolment in the register of authorised engineers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the registers, the body shall decide by the statute of the chamber, and the registered engineer shall obtain the status of authorised engineer, his identity and his license to work in the relevant field of technology, transport and transport shall be issued. The way in which the chamber is financed, membership fees, own income, donations, other sources and the state budget are determined. The state budget I only hope for at the establishment. It should be noted that this Law is in line with Directive 36 of the European Community, of the European Parliament and of the Council, the recognition of professional qualifications aimed at creating conditions for the mutual recognition of professional qualifications and their equal treatment and the cooperation of the relevant authorities of the Member States in this regard. Finally, we can conclude that the adoption of the proposed law and the establishment of the chamber will ensure the promotion of professional work in the field of transport and transport technology and the rights of authorised engineers in this area as well as their responsibilities in the work towards both employers and other persons. It should be noted that for a long time there was also a desire, and we can say freely the lobbying of engineers, traffic and people in charge of designing projects in traffic studies and that this is a good law which will certainly be supported by the Croatian Democratic Community club in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92479	Thank you. HSS representative club, respected representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92480	Dear Mr. President, honorary Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few words on the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Chamber of Technology Engineers, Transport and Transport on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club. The Croatian Peasant Party Club does not doubt the need for the establishment of one such chamber and so far we have been and supported in this Assembly all chambers of the professional that were proposed by the authorised promoters. In principle, I would say that in this part of the need for the establishment of the chamber there must be and it is listed here. What's she coming for? Due to increased volume and level of all modes of transport and transport, intensification of safety protection in transport and transport, making more complex studies, projects, infrastructures related to roads and others. Clearly, in that part it is necessary to regulate and to regulate certain issues in a way that has been proposed so far in the establishment of the other chambers that we have spoken about. But look, a year and a half ago we also passed a law establishing a chamber, a Croatian chamber of engineers of forestry and wood technology, and I must say that after a year and a half of work she did not revive in her practice and therefore has a whole series of reasons why so. I'm afraid that then and only the establishment and other chambers that we've talked about before that if she doesn't get her clear status here over time is I think well suggested to be a legal person and that all engineers who will be authorized to do these jobs are registered in the register. If it happens that she would not have legal personality then we would come to the fact that practically everything that needs to be done, and especially those implementing acts that need to be done by the Resort Ministry, that didn't happen at the forest chamber, that's when the work is limited. It is proposed here that it becomes an authorised engineer, as it acquires membership in the chamber, so I would refer to Article 19, which speaks of becoming a member of the chamber, but has one item, item 2, item 4, and says that it has passed an expert examination in accordance with the Regulation on expert examinations of technology engineers, transport and transport carried by the minister responsible for transport. And then the following paragraph 3 says that it will only apply after the Minister of Transport has passed a rule on the expert examination of technology engineers and traffic from the date of the specified regulation. ... So today there's no rulebook and it can happen, here's the election now, the change of government, so that that rule isn't passed for the next year or I don't know how much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, formally all those who would now be enrolled could be sent to the chamber members without having a professional examination, which I think is the same in some other chambers, it was decided that all those who have so far enrolled in the chamber did not have to have certain professional exams passed. I don't think that's a good thing, and in order to do that in some other way, because I say theoretically we know how much it takes for regular rules, it takes a handful of months for a ministry to bring them in. If it starts now, then only in the next term will the Government be able to propose that rule. And the question then is his conduct as such? Keep going. In the whole part, it is certainly good that this part of the traffic engineers join the chamber and that they also have certain professional exams because as I recall from our closer history there were many different and generals who acquired diplomas. I've even personally signed a letter to the Dean to tell me how one of these graduated and when? I never officially got an answer from him. In view of the fact that there is no need to throw some kind of balance on the profession that is surely appreciated and has its place in Croatia, I think this project needs to formulate this part of Article 19. As far as here is concerned, it is necessary for the establishment, the HSS Club will support the bill but we expect the proposaler to perfect it at least in this section as regards the membership of the chamber and authorised engineers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92481	Thank you very much. I concluded on behalf of the motion secretary of state Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm going to try to do, hopefully, to give satisfactory answers to some of the remarks made in the debate. So the dilemma presented by the honourable parliamentary representative Mr. Korenik on whether it is necessary to allow membership in the chamber and people who have and completed a professional study, not just a university as prescribed by this proposal of the law. Of course there is and I believe and there are different practices in other chambers. We know that cases where it is allowed and membership with a professional study, so we will until the amendment is declared according to this proposal. As regards the training referred to in Article 5(5), the training is therefore permitted from the means and provided for by the means of the chamber and these means of the chamber are also the sources of those funds, which members themselves are paying. Therefore, in that part, we do not see it disputed that it would not be so. In the case of refusal or acceptance of a request for entry in the register defined in Article 21. Here he would therefore warn that the same article defines itself if it does not meet the conditions, in which case it may refuse to enrol in the Register of Authorised Transport Engineers, and these conditions are set out in Article 19, so we also consider it a precise provision. When we comment on the professional affairs referred to in paragraph 2 of the Law, we can, of course, turn the thesis and say that even traffic engineers couldn't possibly get a license or a building permit or anyone else. Of course, works especially in construction are intertwined from different professions and dams. However, in particular, Article 2(2) of Article 1 should be seen in the context of paragraph 1 of the same article, which states that these engineers are already performing professional work in that area, and then these professional jobs are numbered. So it is not prejudged that the exclusiveity of traffic engineers is that they can do these jobs themselves. We do understand, however, that in the study of the quality of construction material, it may be that some other professions are more inviting, but of course they are already doing so in certain segments, and that is why it is listed here, not including that of course some others do, that some other organizations do so. The level for potential members sought and completed a study abroad, of course, implies that, according to the proposal, it will be allowed to enrol in the Register of Authorised Engineers and Professional Studies, it will also set that limit for those who have completed their studies abroad. At this point, of course, it is understood that this should be proven by nostrification. On the note of Mr Ledinski's distinguished parliamentary representative on the expert examination as well as on possible avoidance of the terms of the professional examination or prior entry into the chamber without meeting the conditions of passing the expert exam, we have one amendment which we will accept, but when the time comes, which solves this dilemma in a satisfactory manner. However, I can say in defence of this proposal that through transitional and final provisions, where a 90-day deadline is given for construction and statutes, and also for that reason, it is in Article 19 which will, of course, delete but also, the same deadline is also foreseen for the adoption and entry into force of the rules, so that they could not, according to this proposal, come into that situation either. However, we accept this clear statement that this provision referred to in paragraph 3, and this amendment will be declared so that this case will not be possible in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92483	Thank you. We have one correction, Vice President Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92484	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! I must say that I am correcting this thesis or sentence in defending this proposal from the transitional and final provisions. I think it would be good for the quality of the law to postpone the plea and go possibly to another reading, precisely because you cannot defend the transitional and final and other provisions of this law. For example, in Article 33(4), you say that the founding assembly will adopt the statutes by majority of the votes of the authorities present, and at the same time you have in Article 11(2) of the Law that the statutes are passed by majority of the votes of all the members of the chamber. It's a completely conflicting solution. It is therefore impossible to have two solutions in the bill. Or you have, for example, in Article 18(2), that the general acts of the chamber will be published in a manner... the statute of the chamber. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to remind you that it's the opposite of the Constitution. In accordance with the Constitution of Article 89, I will quote to you: "The rules of the bodies which have public authority must be published in an accessible manner in accordance with the law. Under this law, you must say that they will be published. Not with the statutes. Because it's about bodies that have public, public authority. So a couple of things they're referring to, and I used this correction for a simple reason to suggest. ... It must be a formal second reading, postpone the plea and try again to cross from Article 1 to the last of the law and bring it into line with the Constitution in order to be fine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92485	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92486	Final draft law on the Croatian Chamber of Technology and Transport Engineers. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the HNS. Secretary of State Drazen Breglec. Amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92487	The proposed amendments 1 to 4 shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92488	Thank you for becoming an integral part of the law. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92489	The proposed amendment is not accepted. In particular, the equalisation of the classification of the profession of university studies and professional specialist graduates whose completion results in 300 ECTS points as it is requested by the amendment is not subject to harmonisation through this Act. In addition, existing chambers from other activities have also not been installed in their composition by persons who have completed a professional specialist degree study. And eventually according to school dynamics i.e. the implementation of curricula and programme according to the Bologna Process to professional specialist graduate studies, whose completion has resulted in 300 ECTS points, so far it has been possible to enroll only two generations of students. Furthermore, in accordance with the provision of Article 19(2), which prescribes the conditions for membership in the chamber in point 3, that there are three years of working experience in the profession, students who will complete professional specialist studies may be expected to obtain the conditions for entry in the Chamber of Technology, Transport and Transport, so that when such a situation and such a problem arises at that time, it may also be further intervened because we will have 5 years of experience in the work of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92490	The club of representatives of the HNS respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92491	The fact that other chambers do not have such a profile in their membership is simply due to the fact that there was no such profile in the formation of the chamber. I don't know why we won't respect our own laws, we've passed the Higher Education Act that qualification level is even by all those ECTS points for everything we've sworn, and now that it comes to practice, we won't respect it now. I'm asking for a vote this is really insane.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92492	Who's up for this amendment. Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. With 87 for, 11 abstentions 10 against, passed the proposed law. I ask MPs and MPs to be careful. It's always been.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92494	We move to: - Final proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous substances, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 708 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 150. ... The Rules of Procedure unites first and second readings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection and the Committee on European Integration. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. State Secretary Mr. Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92495	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances with the Final Proposal for the Law dates back to 1993. He had extensive changes in 2003. However, because of its dangerous, human health and the environment, dangerous things are in place in about 5,000 registered classes, defined in 13 classes, and in the Republic of Croatia in 2005, there was a transport of 6.33 million tonnes of dangerous goods in road, rail and river transport, which makes up 8.5% of the total transport of goods achieved by these forms of transport in the Republic of Croatia. The area of transport defined by this law refers to all types of transport other than maritime transport, other than maritime transport, and the maritime transport of dangerous substances in maritime transport has been regulated in accordance with the international legal instruments of the Maritime Code. I would like to point out that the Republic of Croatia is a party to international contracts on the transport of dangerous substances. The three international agreements are particularly important and physically comprehensive and apply daily, i.e.: the European Agreement on International Road Transport, ADR, the Convention on International Railway Transport, the RID and the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Goods by Waterways, the ADN. Also, aviation problems in the transport of dangerous substances define international aviation conventions as well as the recommended practice... This Proposal for a Law provides for the application of an international contract and international contracts which I have just stated on the transport of dangerous substances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, but I would also like to point out that this law does not apply to the transport of dangerous substances in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, which, which is a problem defined by the regulations on the transport of dangerous substances in the armed forces brought by the competent minister, is a defence minister. This law also prescribes conditions for the transport of dangerous substances in all other sectors of transport. What are your terms? These are the conditions for, at all stages of the transport process from packaging, from the manipulation of goods when packaging means both packaging and vehicles. Then to preventive security measures and procedures in case of accident and accident. At the obligations of the consignor, the transport organiser, the packager, the charger, the owner or user of the cargo space and the loader, the carrier and the recipient of the dangerous load. This law also defines the conditions, transactions and professional training of a security adviser who is obliged to appoint legal and natural persons whose activity includes the transport of dangerous substances and related operations. For the purpose of strategic management and international coordination of the transport of dangerous substances, the law also provides for the establishment of the so-called National Committee for the Transport of Dangerous Substances, established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and represented by representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Internal Affairs, Health, Environmental Protection, Economy, State Nuclear Safety and Civil Aviation Agency. After the adoption of the law, 15 sublaws will be adopted mainly within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, which is proposed to enter into force by the end of this year. Finally, I would like to stress that this proposed law is in line with the applicable provisions of the international contracts mentioned and their additions, as well as with the legal acquis of the European Union in the field of transport of dangerous substances. Thank you very much. For further information, we are available.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92496	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92497	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is another law that aligns Croatian legislation with European Union legislation. I would say a very significant law given the increase in transport, the increase in transport in all segments, was he road, air, water or rail and was mainly an increase in transport and also this dangerous, dangerous waste in road transport. This is how I said a significant law from which it is evident that the Ministry has put a lot of work into its preparation and I believe that the law is very good and that it should certainly be accepted in, at this session by emergency procedure. The law includes all modes of transport which Croatia... The basic International Agreement on the Law on road transport, ADR law or agreement on rail transport, the RID, the Law on waterway, ADN is considered to be inland waterway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also international conventions in civil aviation. It is also evident that the law and these agreements have not yet been translated into several thousand pages and that the ministry and services they work for the ministry will translate these agreements within six months. So, by the end of this year. The law covers the transport of dangerous things not only transport, their transport. The law also defines how dangerous substances carried by one of the means of transport, the way they are packed, the way they are transported, and the way they are stored. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall also establish the National Commission of Article 56 of the Law in order to manage the transport of dangerous substances effectively, strategically, and in view of the coordination between the persons involved or the resolution ministries involved in the transport of these dangerous substances in order to prevent the incidents resulting from traffic or traffic accidents. It is also evident that this law provides for the adoption of 15 sublegal acts and that their deadline is 6 months. In the end, the Croatian Democratic Community Club welcomes the adoption of this law and proposes that we bring it forward by an urgent procedure in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92498	Thank you. On behalf of the club HSP, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92499	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. We have quite a law ahead of us, so the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances. Unfortunately, we are witnessing frequent events that say that something does not work in terms of the application and implementation of the law in Croatia. When it comes to dangerous substances, I will now remind you of the situation of January 23rd this year when the tanker in Palestine turned over. It's a place next to Herzegovec, or Gareshnica. Then over 11,000 gallons of blue diesel and other various oils were poured out. So there's been an eco incident. Unfortunately, to this day the consequences of this eco incident have not been removed. To this day, the consequences have not been removed. However, the pollution of wells continues. The first was the beginning. Normally, a system of groundwater works unfortunately its own. Now the last thing was, even though they don't want to go out properly on the ground, of the 30 wells that have been tested, they still need 10. But the locals don't have time to get into the field. 28's polluted. I've been to Palestine three times as an MP from another constituency. Last time I was 23 June. So exactly when it's been five months. The situation is the same as it was after January 23rd. I also asked a representative question to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. According to the government of the Republic of Croatia, which received from Bjelovar-Bilogorska County. So where Mayor Byce answered the situation is ideal. So, according to the answer, the situation is ideal but come and you'll see that oil is swimming in the well, and no new source has been found, so oil is in the canals, so wells are polluted, and no one has raised the problem of rehab, no one has raised the question of people dealing with livestock. They do, it's a Palesnik, otherwise it's quite famous for the part of cattle farming related to farming and cows and everything else. So you need to feed the cattle. No one's taking care of that. We immediately proposed that the county as such and the state join in that part, that people, in the meantime, have joined the water line, and that part of the costs, people do not have the money to join the water line, the costs to bear the county and the state, and the result of the regressive lawsuit is charged by Croatia's insurance. Here, this is really what the situation is about the Law on Dangerous Substances and how nothing is going on, that nothing happens after a situation like this happens, unfortunately. And the first day that such a situation happened everyone was downstairs taking pictures of themselves in the cameras, everyone promised, everything would be done. Afterwards, neither did Mayor Bajs appear, nor did anyone from the government, Minister Cobankovic, who said everything was wonderful and wonderful, and people prepared them for the water that is toward them, according to my representative question from the well where the oil swims, to give them gifts, to see what kind of water they have, without talking about the part of the cattle and the rest. Therefore, this question of dangerous substances is, unfortunately, such that we may have relatively good legal proposals, legislative regulations, but unfortunately, the issue is the implementation and inaction of the Central State Authorities responsible for these issues and at the level of the county, because this is about those various headquarters, so these headquarters are being established, we make various plans, and then environmental protection. So he says headquarters. Then they get together, then they make some conclusions, and then they give a warrant to the Public Health Department to question the water. They don't do it even though they get paid. Well, then we get a private who, like, took some half a million kunas of money to get rid of that part. He obviously took the money, but he didn't do anything. Then the Department of Public Health reports that he is not in charge of the matter of the soil, but only for the matter of water and it is all going round and round, and none of the relevant ones performs. So let's test this law and similar laws on specific cases and examples to see if it solves. Unfortunately, this one doesn't solve it either. He says that whoever does something like that will have to do it on their own cost and everything. If they're looking at these criminal provisions, if they don't do anything to anyone like this Palestinian case, and people have to figure out how they're gonna handle it. The cattle should be given water. People have to take a bath. I tell them, a pipe bar to make one tap where they can take water, they don't have to buy from, pay either fire tanks or some other tanks to even get drinking water. Here, that's the situation. Unfortunately, such situations happen every summer in the area of Dalmatia around tanks and everything else. Therefore, if we would like to have the right law, go to that variant that dangerous things should normally be transported by rails, and that exception is part of roadways, or waterways, depending on how normal there is no other way. I think there's the strongest and the strongest protection and safety in terms of both the way and the wagons and everything else that protection is much stronger than the road part. We know for ourselves that many carriers try despite the bans on the side roads to transport. So they're expensive. Everything is expensive for them as well as for highways or other parts of the Master's Department than for the purposes of transporting those roads that are not intended for that part, and I think that we should do much more in investing in the safety of that transport itself for the precise determination of the route of transport and of the road, so we have to work very hard on doing so in order to be in such and similar situations. But I'm saying, the best solution is what the HSP club proposes is to go to the maximum on the railway issue, but I'm not talking about that situation right now about this last deal, it's not known what President Mesic and President Putin agreed on, the gas ingested, and that part is a very dangerous substance in transports, if there's no security there, it's possible that various situations are where it can come from, it's unfortunately, to an eco incident. Therefore, if you answer this question about the Palestinians, does the law contain it? Perhaps I will support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92500	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92501	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. We have witnessed in the past that we have had several dangerous people call this an accent on Croatian and Croatian roads and railways, and all this has shown that this law, which is in principle in line with EU legislation and does not bring too much news, has in fact proved that in Croatia, unfortunately, the state is still neither local or regional self-government but unfortunately nor the relevant state-owned companies are qualified for the incident situations that occur in the transport of dangerous substances. The fact is that even today some of the highways don't have all the necessary appropriate equipment in the event of incidents, this has been shown recently by a railway incident, it's also proven on several of our roads. What is startling in this whole story is that, for example, when we were determining corridors at a time when oil and oil derivatives would be driven at that time, it wasn't because of the danger of ecological nature in the country and in our country, but because it was found that oil was being smuggled. It shows what level of environmental consciousness we are all at, and it seems to me that one part of this law is going at that moment. We had previously and the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Technology, Transport and Transport Engineers and this other law was an ideal opportunity to install something from that law and like this. When we talk about a security adviser, we support the appointment of security advisers, however, it is a question of who will grant them approval or conviction. That's not clear to the end of the bill. In addition, we know that there is a re-emergence in Croatia and professional studies held within the university and now is an ideal opportunity for what is defined in paragraphs 28, 29, 30, 31. It would be normal for a consultant to be a member of this chamber of technology engineers, transport and transport. This would further strengthen security, but there is simply no such thing here. It seems to us that a person who is supposed to be a security advisor must have completed a high level of expertise, whether university or some professional study, because then we would show that environmental and safety in the transport of dangerous substances is our first priority. It would be normal for what is referred to in Article 31(3) to then teach those persons professionally, to be in the jurisdiction of this chamber that we were just talking about, that would make sense. However, it is obvious that the legislator of this law did not take care of it. In a way, we feel like he doesn't know what his head is doing and vice versa. Therefore, it seems to me that the other part means that when it comes to a security adviser, then he would have had with everything he is prescribed that in his jurisdiction we must warn him now that we have and so far we have had correct laws that have not always been implemented until the end. We know that a part of our companies unfortunately do not want to implement these laws, and there is insufficient coordination between the competent state authorities and police, or police administrations. We must also be aware of this, it has already been said here, that the corridors in Croatia will have to be determined, which will carry dangerous substances, but the emphasis should still be there and I agree with the predecessor to try to use the railways to carry the largest transport via land dangerous substances, only to smaller relations, shorter relations and strictly established corridors could be carried out in road transport. It seems to me that it would also be good for this law to, on the basis of these remarks made by some of them who have been and so far in the debate, and regardless of what this law has to do with the legislation of the European Union, that the proponent is still taking into account the comments made by the clubs so far, I suppose there will still be, however, delaying the vote on Friday rather than, if it is possible to agree with the representatives' clubs with our remarks, and only then goes into further procedure because it seems to me, it is too important law to allow it to be unsettled. In doing so, it should be emphasized that we prescribe certain things from some other laws which I do not consider necessary because we also have the Road Traffic Safety Act, we have the Road Transport Act and it seems to me that simple provisions relating to these laws do not need to be prescribed in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92502	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President Mato Arlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92503	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is a pretty good law. I agree with some of the remarks that clubs have made regarding actually professionals, advisors, their appointment and realization. It is good that, finally, in our law, there is a rule of nomotechnicality that counts international conventions and documents that have to be implemented because there is an interpretation in which it is enough for us to write in the Constitution that they are ratified and that they must be implemented without having to be processed through the laws. However, there are some things I would still like to point out, I will not exaggerate in that part but allow only examples of punishment. For example, it is said in Article 60 that with a fine of 1,500 kuna, I repeat 1,500 kuna for the offense will be punished. And now the packager, the offerer, and not to count. So persons who, among other things, are responsible for loading, packing or sending a dangerous substance that can cause enormous damage to human, animal, and so on or environmental pollution. You know how much that $1,500 fine is? It's about less punishment than most of the fines they are, they charge the driver of motor vehicles in the event of traffic violations. Now the question is actually being asked, what kind of law do we really want to achieve, and where do we train it to be strict? So where big money runs because you know the price of services in transporting dangerous substances is very high. Where covert things can happen and abuses related again, let's say, to the transport of nuclear waste, the way it's packed, and so on. Then an individual is brought to the level of banal punishment in road safety and legal persons will be punished from 5 thousand to 500 thousand kuna. And the damages could be millions and millions of kunas, so I don't count or quote any further. I think these misdemeanor measures and legal and physical persons are completely, completely inappropriate compared to what they're dealing with. It is a very risky business which, of course, there is an additional price of services and increased earnings. And for that, of course, this question has to be settled by me quite differently. Now in that part, that would be the first comment. The second observation is related to the National Commission for the Transport of Dangerous Substances, which should be established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and made up of representatives of individual bodies responsible for the transport of dangerous substances. Now, look at the wonders, the government is setting up and making bodies responsible for transporting dangerous substances. And then it's the members of the Ministry, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry, and so on. Now the question is, what exactly does the government establish? Aren't the government just those ministers and the government's ministries? Therefore, if that is the case, this National Authority should nevertheless be extended with a number of professional institutions and persons from different institutions, and especially from the sphere of those institutions and organisations that have public authority, in fact, to control, control of hazardous substances and their quality. In this regard, of course, it should be pointed out that paragraph 3 of Article 56 states that other experts in the area can be appointed, but see now, those who correspond to the transport of dangerous substances. So you from the sphere of carriers that should be responsible for the damage, if they do damage to the transport of dangerous substances, you name experts in the national section, and for example from Ivo Pilar Institute, fire protection or I don't know from our commission dealing with nuclear waste, and so on, we won't name and so on. Why? Why is that? The question arises, among other things, how will this part work and for one more important thing. The supervision of the implementation of this law should, of course, be carried out by the ministries. It's the department's inspection surveillance. Ministers, inspectors. And it is now very interesting that the supervision of the implementation of this law concerning the National Commission to act on this matter and to carry out the legal work of the National Commission of the Ministry when it comes to overseeing its own ministers or persons from the Ministry in this regard. I think we have closed the vicious circle and it is a very, very important issue because of the interest, the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia, the protection of nature, the protection of the environment and the protection of human health and flora and fauna otherwise in the Republic of Croatia. That's why I think no matter... Because of this novelty and quality that you have introduced into the law and which I support and welcome, I don't think things are fully worked out and that there should be a little more stopping at the work of this law because of what we really want to achieve, and that is the protection of the fundamental values that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia protects, such as protecting human health, protecting the environment, protecting nature and everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because of all this, I suggest that an emergency procedure be removed from this law and that it pass the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92504	Thank you. A brief review of the promoter, Mr. Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92505	I would like to thank first of all for the interest in the debate and for some remarks, useful remarks, and I will try to answer in defence of this proposal some questions raised in the debates. First of all, Mr Kovacevic, the parliamentary representative I do not see at the moment, I would like to actually refer to a series of provisions that bring about a new quality in this law. I agree that he is in the good part and continuity of the past law but they are here in some parts particularly well and more precisely defined. And which concerns a series of prevention measures, a clearer definition of the role of a security adviser, also of procedures in the event of an incident, of liability in the event of an incident. Indeed speaking in response to a specific question through, through dozens of articles, would take too much time and simply it is impossible in such a way and act at this time. On his concrete remarks about the incident in... of 23 January, of course, I don't have the information that I could give an answer to "ad hoc" but certainly it's instructions that he, as an ex-inspector, is very well-informed if some thing isn't well done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If there really is any indication of what he was talking about. If there are contaminants afterwards to refer relevant services to certain observations, or to initiate the procedures of inspection services which have the power to comply with these and other laws. With regard to the proposal that dangerous substances should be used if I am well understood and directed by law to the railway, it can only be the consequence of the law, and we cannot explicitly prefer one branch of transport to another for economic reasons. But I agree that it should be done and it will be as a consequence quite certain for some dangerous substances will be more expensive, which is more expensive. But this depends on the quantities to be transported by road, rather than by rail, so that action should also be the result of consistent application of these laws but not explicitly prescribed provision which, as part of the article, would be defined. As for the remarks made by the distinguished parliamentary representative, Mr. Korenik. It has been defined through Articles 28 and beyond very precise who will give powers to security advisers and what their roles are, which are their conditions for them to become a security adviser so that, within these articles, they are also responsible for a specific question, to a good part of the specific issues that you have raised. Whether the security adviser may be a member of the chamber by connecting the last item of the agenda. It can, but it doesn't have to, because a security advisor doesn't necessarily have to be a transport profession, and a member of the Transport Engineer Chamber must be exclusively a transport profession so that a precise answer to your remark. As regards some of the remarks made by the Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr Arlovic specifically on the criminal provisions in Article 60. After that, you were correct, that it exists in Article 59 far stronger in the financial amount measured by the criminal provision. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that Article 60 refers to infringements of natural persons and specifically to workers, to the packager specifically if he does not respect the regulations... the inscriptions and the markings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the company worker, you'll agree with him, it's certainly not possible to punish him with a fine of 100,000 kuna. And behind it is the responsibility of a legal person for whom far greater penalties are provided. So then we have a charger, so we have a loader, so we have a recipient, and so these are all physical persons who physically perform with the carrier, with the other entities in the transport chain of these jobs, which are so marked and defined as the packer, charger, etc. Of course, through Article 59, infringement provisions are fines from 5,000 to 500,000 kuna. However, there is also a obligation to submit, i.e. to cover the costs of recovery on the burden of the carrier, i.e. the cause as defined in Article 21(2). In the National Commission as a multi-disciplinary body there were words here particularly in the context of control, both at the end and in the control context, in the context of the conduct of inspection surveillance. Therefore, in Article 56, the composition of the National Commission does not in any way exclude when we talk about experts in the field of transport of dangerous substances. Of course, this does not mean that these experts can only come from legal persons or from a ministry dealing with the transport of dangerous substances. Of course, these areas are dealt with by experts through both institutes and scientific, other scientific organizations. Because as we know, we have a number of projects with an energy institute dealing with some aspects of transport, and we would never say that, and certainly there are experts who have this profile and these references and satisfy the condition that experts in the field of transport are dangerous substances. When we talk about inspection and the issue that ministry inspectors would not be effective or subjective in controlling their colleagues who make up the National Commission also come from the ministry. Unfortunately, we do not have or fortunately have a different way of defining the jurisdiction of conducting inspection tasks, and to illustrate that this is not necessarily negative, I will just say that almost in all branches, not only do I believe in traffic and the colleagues' economies are controlling colleagues. We have so much in particular about air traffic, air traffic inspection both in road and rail inspections which are in special administration and are controlled by the entire sector which is also in the same ministry but the inspectors are, of course, independent so that we expect it to be in this, and based on this law. Here, so much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92506	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Mato Arlovic, vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92507	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Breglec, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. When interpreting this article in 60, it turns out that these penalties apply only to legal persons if they do not act in accordance with the workplace, then for the first time, they would introduce a direct offence in those specific responsibilities. But I don't have anything against it either. However, it is too narrow to interpret this Article 60. If you take the infringements of the natural persons referred to in paragraph 1 and point 4 relating to the infringement of the obligations referred to in Articles 17 and 19 relating to the recipient of the obligations of the consignee, or the obligation of the loader, you shall ignore the fact that natural persons are considered also craftsmen who can work in a cooperative relationship with the legal person relating to the loading and unloading, the reception of dangerous substances, and then it is not the same as the natural person employed, and the other question is disciplinary responsibility so that the issue is quite different in nature while reminding you that also the natural person who is the driver of the personal vehicle, the motor vehicle has a greater penalty in most cases of road safety injury than those natural persons would have in dangerous substances, for example in nuclear packaging or receiving nuclear waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92508	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92509	Final proposal of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Secretary of State Drazen Breglec. Amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92510	The amendments of the Legislative Committee from 1 to 19 shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92511	Thank you. They become an integral part of the Law. HNS's club. The transport of dangerous substances. It's a mistake. There's no such thing as an amendment. Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92512	The amendments of the Spatial Arrangement Committee shall also be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92513	We can vote. The result? With 94 votes in favour and one abstention, 6 against the proposed law together with the amendments adopted. I give the vote on the proposal for a conclusion is authorized by the professional service of the Croatian Parliament to edit this text before its publication in "The People's Journal". Please vote. The result? With 94 votes in favour and one abstention of the proposed conclusion. It's not that hard to handle there, pal. It's not that hard. All you have to do is watch.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92515	- Final proposal of the Act confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation (2004), emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 713 The Proposer is Government. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. Would the representatives of the board like to? No one answered. I'm closing the debate. We continue at 15.00 hours with agenda point Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92516	Final draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 94 votes unanimously adopted, a proposed law was passed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! We continue the session with discussion on - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Social Encouragement Building – Second Reading, P.Z. No. 647 Proposer of the Law is Government. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, Labour and Social Policy and Health. Environment, spatial planning and construction minister Marina Matulović Dropoulos will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92518	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. As you can see, we have proposed to you the Final Proposal of the Law on Encouragement Building. In our first reading, we made it clear why it is necessary to change this law. In fact, the main reason was that local self-government units could no longer provide land for the construction of the encouraging housing with which we want to continue. And that is why we propose an increase in land prices so that units of local self-government can buy the country at normal prices and also give the country to APN to build apartments in stimulating housing. Here we added another new article, which is that where a local self-government unit cannot or does not want to build, it can also enable APN to build and sell these apartments normally. One of the newspapers is that we all met together with the problem of people buying an apartment in a stimulating apartment and then selling it immediately. And that's why we suggest that ten years can't sell that apartment, or if someone wants to sell it, they can sell it, but they have to make up for the market value of the apartment. And one thing we have accepted from the remarks made in this House is that units of local self-government are receiving a municipal contribution, therefore they will receive this municipal contribution. But the municipal contribution and construction of municipal infrastructure cannot amount to more than 20% of the value of the apartment. So the value of POS apartments increases from 910 maximum values to 980 euros per metre square, which we think is still a very favourable solution because on the market apartments in these, in such amounts cannot be bought. And we also believe that the credit allocations, credit and interest deadlines are still so favourable that there is no reason why these apartments are still not being built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92519	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? Work, social policy and health care? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92520	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Ms. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as the Minister explained in the introduction the important paper of this law, the law harmonizes the construction of apartments according to the POS model according to the market conditions of land price or allows the increase of land prices from 70 euros to 140 euros, which clearly will result in a total increase in POS prices to around 980 euros. It is important news that is also in order for local self-government units to return 35% of the price and also 35% of the land supply prices to infrastructure. This also allows the Real Estate Agency to buy building land unless there are units of local self-government possibility or desire to do so. And it has been found that the utility of the land on which the apartments are built cannot therefore be that this equipment cannot be more than 20% of the ethlon price of construction. These are, however, the SDP club expresses its reserve under Article 7 of this Act, which says it prohibits the estrangement of dwellings within ten years of the date of the conclusion of the buy-in agreement, or an exception which would allow it to be allowed, provided that the difference to the market value of the apartment is paid. This provision is questionable in our opinion, as one question arises as to who will determine the market value of the apartment or how and at which time the market value of the apartment will be determined, leaving the possibility of various interpretations, manipulations, etc.? The second serious remark to this law is in Article 8 which literally speaks like this. In order to initiate procedures under the provisions of the Law on Social Incentives, if they are not completed until the entry into force of this Act, the conclusion of a buy-in contract will be completed under the provisions of this Act. In our opinion it is not, it is legally unacceptable because it actually allows for a change in business during a job, so a change in business conditions during a job. There should eventually post this point and supplement if it goes in favor of the buyer. So if it goes in favor of the buyer. In that case, this provision would make sense, as it is simply unacceptable to start a legal business under one law, to change the conditions during that business. Here are two basic remarks from the SDP club. On the other part, we believe that this law makes sense, and this one depending on how we resolve these issues in Articles 7 and 8, we will be put to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92521	Thank you. HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Marko Širac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92522	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In market conditions, most citizens are unable to acquire housing for housing purposes or improve the quality of housing in an existing apartment or house. Therefore, the Social Encouragement Act provides organised housing encouraged by public funds provided by units of local self-government and the Republic of Croatia. The sales price of these apartments is significantly lower than the market price, with the possibility of a round-rate payment under very favourable conditions. The shopping championship has citizens who for the first time acquire an apartment owned for their own purposes and units of local self-government that buy apartments to rent the apartment i.e. buy social, substitute or other apartments. Investment firms for the construction and sale of apartments of legal services agencies and real estate interventions to APN. The Agency shall establish the implementation programme of the socially stimulating housing of the so-called so-called so-called building programme. the POS programme in accordance with which it provides the necessary funds for the construction of apartments and houses. In the application of the applicable law, certain difficulties to be removed have been observed and certain provisions of the law should be complemented. This primarily refers to an increase in the price of flats by the applicant's assessment will be 7.7% because the market price of building land has increased to 100%. Given that the units of local self-government for the implementation of the POS programme are largely not owned by building land, it is necessary to allow an increase in the prices at which land is allowed to be purchased. Under the bill, the current price of construction land from EUR 70 per metre per square metre would increase to EUR 140 per square metre. This will result in an increase in the price of apartments from EUR 910 per square metre per square metre. The increase in the price of apartments according to our assessment should be paid by customers because on the free market the prices of apartments are the same quality and up to 100% higher. The increase in the price of construction land is amended by the applicable law by the prescribed criteria under which units of local self-government participated in the implementation of the POS programme. Therefore, the amendments and additions to Articles 6 and 7 of the applicable law order that increased costs to the local self-government unit should it provide land and settle the cost of regulating the municipal infrastructure and connections to the municipal infrastructure will settle the APN at 35 % of the value of the building land and 35 % of the value of the municipal infrastructure, within 60 days of the payment of the customer's participation. The total investment in land and municipal infrastructure is also limited to EUR 280 per square metre and 40% of the apartment's etalan value. The amendments to Article 13 have established the possibility that in justified cases APN can buy building land at a price that cannot be higher than 20% of the Ethlon construction price and provide financing for the regulation of municipal infrastructure provided that the price cannot also exceed 20% of the Ethlon construction price. of EUR 280 per square metre. The expropriation of Article 18 prevents the avoidance of competition that took place in the conclusion of a direct contract with legal and natural persons authorised for works of construction that provided building land for the construction of dwellings. In addition, in such cases there was the possibility of other illicit payment operations, paying off works with apartments, business premises, and so, a number of other circumstances which are now being prevented by eradicating the provisions of Article 18 to the end. Article 19(1) of the Regulation provides that the average selling price of an apartment per metre per square metre cannot exceed EUR 980. This provision ensures the protection of customers, i.e. Citizens who, under the POS programme, address life issues, i.e. They're providing themselves and their family with an apartment. The new Article 28a also provides that the owner of the apartment that bought the apartment under the POS programme cannot alienate that apartment within 10 years of the date of conclusion of the contract. In the event of a decision to alienate that apartment, the APN is obliged to pay the difference between the selling price and the actual market price of the apartment at the time of estrangement. Therefore, according to my assessment, this provision is well formulated because it is the determination of the market price on the day of estrangement. Finally, I would point out that the implementation of this law will not require the provision of additional funding in the State budget for 2007. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92523	Thank you. For the club of representatives of the CNS respected representative Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92524	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and assistant minister. First of all, let me express my praises as I did last time concerning that part of the changes and additions relating to the land or to Article 2, the basic text of Article 6, which delegates the funds which... , the agency of 15% proceeded in sales, the purchase of pre-contracts and the sale of apartments to delegate them to local self-government units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I welcome that decision because I think it facilitates the procedure and the very offer of land to the agency. I also welcome the decision to do so within 60 days or within 2 months to transfer those funds as one acceptable time limit. I also support the proposal that you set out in point 4 of the same article, which is that the means to provide utility and connection devices are also 35% to target those funds towards the local self-government unit. But there's no time left here? So unlike the 1st Ali, where it says "in 60 days" it doesn't say here when I consider it a small flaw, does it? Perhaps at a time when it will go into the making of it, but let me say it as an observation. As for this 20% part, and we certainly welcome it because we know that some things on the market have changed significantly since the moment it started. The fact is, since 2001, when POS left, approximately housing has changed significantly. They have changed, they have also covered general economic and banking and market conditions in the area of housing, they have changed the requirement for a change in the adjustment of regulations, and in this sense any improvement in this regulation that allows the subsidisation of the system to be welcomed. In this respect, the change in the maximum land price that is increasing by 10% of the prices is also positive and we welcome it, especially since it does not significantly change the whole system in the price structure. However, I would now refer to Article 13 or Article 4 of these amendments, i.e. in the basic text in the final proposal of Article 13 as regards the proposed Article 13(1), paragraph 1 of this Article, is almost identical to the basic text of the law. It is clear that it is about the adjustment, the increase in the limit, the mentioned price limit from 10% to 20 and it is evident that this is set in the context of the price of the apartment, i.e. that so purchased land cannot charge a square meter of useful area of the sale apartment by more than 140 euros per metre of square area. However, as a building is also built in business premises, it is clear that the land price should not be put in line with the business premises because the commercial premises are sold at market price and are also financed from the sale of the business space. Therefore, for the sake of clarity, I should add to the provision at the end of paragraphs 1 and 2 that this does not apply to part of the land price relating to business and garage spaces because they are marketable. The following of the case should perhaps go with one amendment, I would suggest that you consider giving the amendment. So this thing about land that doesn't apply to business spaces and garages. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. the final draft of the law referred to in paragraph 3 is not clearly visible who grants a temporary authorisation. It is said that this article can be approved and is further spoken with the agreement of the Agency and is then discussed again on the terms and conditions. It should be legally clarified or better made more clear to define that provision, it is clear that this sale should be approved by the seller, i.e. APN. Furthermore, the question is whether it is only one condition for this approval to divide or have something else. This should be clearly defined in the provisions of paragraph 3 where it is spoken of exceptionally and for a period of 10 years. As far as Article 18 is concerned, I have now said the things that are welcome in the amendment of this law and I welcome, I would still only be bound to land and communal contribution to mention that there is no water contribution left here. I didn't see him define him anywhere. What about the water contribution? You speak here in the article of Amendment 3. You speak municipal contribution, the cost of regulating municipal infrastructure, and you talk about the price of connection to municipal infrastructure, but let me not see any water contribution anywhere. I suggest you think about it and see what happens in the amendments. And now let's go to Article 18, so that's the one I opposed last time. Otherwise I agree with my predecessors just so much more, about the sales restrictions for 10 years. I have to admit that it's basically a little vague or inadmissible to me, because this is about buying property and when you pay something, whether you're paying for a loan or paying for a war or a total price, I'm not quite sure if it's constitutional that when you get something in your possession that someone's limiting and making it available to you. It seems to me that it can be over and unconstitutional. In any case, it's very doubtful for me personally. I'm not saying that there's no possibility that this is being abused and I'm not against being abused but I don't like excessive red tape because we know that life is not bureaucracy and there are a lot of different situations in life that can't be predicted and that can be justified to sell the apartment and buy a new one. So I had comments on that article last time, and we can see that a colleague mentioned it in his discussion today. Finally, Article 18, which I do not agree with or agree with last time. So delete, this is Article 5 of these amendments, which delete Article 18. It is thus abolished that the construction company can give i.e. provide land for the building of apartments and build alone without a public tender. The conditions are that there is an interest in buying apartments, i.e. to sell these and such apartments is undeniable. Well, if there's an interest in buying within the limits prescribed by law, I don't see any reason to cancel that article. Namely, all apartments in Split, for example. The apartments on Brodarica were realised in this way and about 400 families solved their housing problem, and now this de facto makes it impossible to sell it. Allow me to wait for the city administration of Split to agree something with itself, today these 400 families would still be waiting for a solution to their housing issue. I mean that often some things come from unpositive relations between local politics or some kind of conflict at local and state policy level, and the victims are ultimately only citizens. As a rule, building land for the construction of POS apartments is provided by units of local self-government, i.e. cities and municipalities. In order to implement measures to meet housing needs and improve the quality of housing of their citizens, units of local self-government also establish housing needs and, in line with these needs and their capabilities, provide adequate building land for the construction of apartments. However, if there is no such possibility, it is a possibility that a construction company that owns construction land with or without construction documentation, offers this land to the POS agency that the same company can then build apartments on the property without a public tender, but under the conditions prescribed by law. The basic conditions are the appropriate technical and housing standards with a limited land price and the total selling price of the apartment and that there is also an appropriate interest in the purchase of these apartments under previously defined conditions. In the event that the construction of apartments on a specific land owned by a construction company may be a suitable construction project and there is also an interest in the purchase of apartments under defined prices and parameters, i.e. The sale of apartments is unquestionable, there are no stronger arguments that this same construction company is alone and does not perform these works, of course with appropriate guarantees and, if it is authorised and trained. In this regard, the Commission notes that the construction company, which owns the land in accordance with the prescribed conditions, does its own work and thus employs its production capacities and workers, significantly increases the potential interest of that person and that, within the limits of its land prices and possibly an appropriate project, it applies to POS apartments. Therefore, the decisive factor in the conclusion of a construction contract without public competition is the concession of building land without which the construction is not possible. I note that on the list of the needs of the city of Split at the time of the list, and I think that the tender was opened for 3 months was about 900 and some interested and qualified families who submitted the request and whose request for purchase of such an apartment could be approved. To date, as you know, we have realised only 400 apartments in Split, I say on condition and under these very circumstances. So, still 500 families didn't get apartments because there was a boater who had only a possibility of 400 apartments. Therefore, the city of Split obviously has no own opportunity to offer land for business in construction or does not want to. I don't get into it, but there are construction companies that have land I know from the Ants, from the "Constructor" on. I mean, there's a lot of construction companies in Split. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that's where you'd be able to argue who and where. And that's where we know what, from... Go on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I'm just saying it's one of the models that just worked where the local self-government unit didn't function for any reason. So not for the reason that there was no interest in these apartments, but for the reason that it was said that such land did not exist. So there's a need, people need apartments, and cities or municipalities can't provide it, they can't provide that possibility. That's it. I wouldn't last any longer. So depending on the amendments we will see and if they will be the club of the Croatian People's Party will either support it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92525	Thank you. An individual debate. Honorable representative of the Crown of Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92526	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Minister with an associate. It is precisely this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement that has clearly expressed interest if it exists to be recognised by the unit of local self-government and in cooperation with the agency in order to access construction. There are very clearly highlighted differences in relation to first reading and accepted useful suggestions as to what happens when a local self-government unit provides construction land, which if it ensures the regulation of municipal infrastructure and infrastructure connections, of course and the payment of municipal contribution, which is what happens if the local self-government unit does not provide sufficient building land that the agency can react in this case. It is of course useful to point out that it is precisely this way to secure the price of a meter of square apartment with more favourable conditions, but also with the consent of units of local self-government, municipality and city, because it is a very useful provision that says very precisely when the unit of local self-government provides construction land, the agency will again call on the contract concluded between the agency, the unit of local self-government and the agency will pay when paid by the buyer within 2 months, so very precise, solid and secure deadline, but also the security and guarantee that the unit of local self-government will just get what is agreed. It also sets out very clearly the cost insurance when the local self-government unit subsidises the municipal infrastructure and infrastructure connections, also very precisely, 35% of the price of municipal infrastructure and re-emerges at the moment when the prices on the market have changed this good bill proposal. It has not even been omitted to apply the provision when the value of the municipal contribution paid by the investor in obtaining an act that can be built, then it will also be paid and included in the price value that cannot exceed 20% of the value of the Ethlon construction price. Of course, it is difficult to prevent all the abuses that have recently occurred at the social promotional housing site in the city of Split because many apartments have just received a very popular price of 980 euros in the middle of the city have been resold for a multiple higher price. This provision that was deleted, which says that regardless of the city or municipalities if he is interested in such construction, he will find her land, and the company that has such land, the own land for the need to build apartments, she will not be able to conclude a construction contract without a public tender. A very precise clear provision because it is impossible to rule out such species otherwise from the abuses that occur. There should also be caution. Do we want every major city to relax with this kind of construction and smaller places and cities in the area of a particular county or region. I think this is a very good approach to be discussed and a ban on housing within 10 years. This will be recorded in land books, but if it really wants to be sold for reasons of going to another city, to another place, or otherwise to change the apartment, then the price has to be paid and this difference between the market price at the time of the conclusion of the contract and the sales price that has been concluded. Very clear and understandable and I think that these are actually the right guidelines in how to bring existing laws into line with the current market situation, especially the price of apartments that are still deficited, but only in the largest city and the largest cities in the Republic of Croatia. Many of the smaller places that wanted to build these types of apartments could not sell them because there is no such response or interest. Therefore, this Law and the observations of the laws that were adopted after the first reading and adopted, and should again be pointed out that they have also consulted with the alliance, the association of cities, that it is very good to say that they have been conducted in the broadest sense of the debate in order to feel the way in which legal proposals should be prepared that really go away with life and life.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92527	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92528	Here, thank you very much. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my fellow Peronja that the apartments were meeting in Split. No, the apartments were shopping in Split. So in this program you don't get apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92529	And the replica immediately Honored representative Alenka. [[I replica if I can continue]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92530	As for leaving the region at the expense of apartments and dwellings and moving to cities, I must say that this is primarily one demographic problem that should be addressed at the second level rather than at the level of this Law on Incentive Housing. Although I certainly agree with the fact that our regions are moving to the heart of people moving into cities. However, this programme of encouraging housing has never gone to the new population in any unit of local self-government during the competitions, but has always gone to that population that has lived in these cities for 10 and more years but without a settled housing issue. So you can't say it's about moving out.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92531	Reply to the replica, respected representative Krunoslav Markovinović. ... The crown of Peronja. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92532	... [[The speaker is away from the microphone, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92533	It's good for a microphone to talk, then you can hear it, and no microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92534	... Donations but almost 50% is thus the price of the apartment donated because in the middle of the city of Split for 980 EUR, you get an apartment per meter square as opposed to, say, Žnjan where 2800 is, that's a big difference in everything. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] Of course, encouraging measures should exist precisely to connect the seats of a particular region or county with remote cities more quickly and in two directions in order to allow it to remain alive and can be done in these larger centres. So very carefully with such encouraging measures that only give opportunity to those who live in the big city and who have come to the big city for the last 10 years, they have found a job and they no longer wanted to come back from where they came from.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92535	Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92536	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, by looking at the item of this proposed law, we see that everything we have proposed has actually been accepted here. However, there are some things I would like to point out. The local community is certainly interested in building POS apartments because POS apartments... They're cheaper than the flats on the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course it is, I could say some sort of environment between the time the apartments were assigned, and also the rent rights and the like, when Zagreb was actually entangled with a small one-room, one-room or possibly small two-room flats and expensive apartments that are currently on the market. Here it is, it is good that the Ministry of Government invests its share of the funds here. It is good that local communities are also participating here, and unfortunately, some of us are not so fortunate, if some of us are fortunate to have land that can be clearly given for POS construction while here it is now well built so that to some extent it can be compensated for the purchase of building land where it is not. Also for construction and infrastructure connections. I wanted to point out two more things here. One of them is, in any case, the protection against alienation of such an apartment, which is very good. Because this apartment is cheaper than other apartments on the market, so this is how it is prevented. And secondly, all those manipulations that were with companies that invested their own land were given jobs without competition to prevent it. So the fact that we're talking about POS is a little confusing people, maybe you should tell a little bit of people because you have a lot of shortcuts. Let's say POS, HNS, DORH, BOOK, MUP and so on, so there are a lot of shortcuts to explain to people, and why am I bringing this up? Because if we go back a little bit to history then we see how much manipulation there is and how much malversion there was with the POS flats. Not only did the competent Ministry of Radiir Cacic take this as an incentive measure for different manipulations, but it also had interesting events. We know it's about Cres, say, where 9 million went without a contest. The biggest jobs were given to the firm of Resolute Minister Cacic. Here's Spain we have an example, not only of construction but of designing, but of not only building permits, but also of project project documentation, cost-effectives and the like. That's why I'm saying it clearly to avoid it in the future. A particularly interesting story is about a pig farm in Sesvedi where jobs were shared... Lands that weren't even owned by APN, so it was owned by someone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today we see that, to what extent, someone else's property is being built there today. So the executives, the apartments were cheaper, but extremely poor quality, so the tenants, the buyers, have been trying for years to fix the gaps mostly unsuccessfully. Here were the great articles again about the building in Cres, Spain and the like there about the quality where the water was leaking inside, the drain wasn't solved in buildings and the like. So in some buildings, I say the tenants even refused to move in. As a coincidence, the projectors were often again companies of the Coning Group. Here's what happened to annexes. The annexes are actually a very important thing about the contract. And unfortunately, even the investigative commission didn't have all the annexes and, for example, it came to me that in the POS building, which is incomprehensible to me on the island of Cres, suddenly the firm "Coning" became the owner of the company without competition, with no 29 garages and 3 business spaces. First of all, why are POS buildings even having a business space arranged? But good, what's there. Secondly, we know what a garage place on the island means. I know gold is worth, I don't know, on the island of Rab and Cres and elsewhere every garage. So to become the owner of such garages for nothing, for nothing, it's very interesting because these garages must have been sold quite well afterwards. I mean, here's a fellow mayor of former Raba looking the same way, but I know that the POS building on the island of Rab was thrown out, not only because of those bars that were there but also because of a very bad performance. I don't think building POS apartments was bad either. People welcomed it gladly, but the idea was probably still going to Israel in 1991 where the company was already building I think here is 1294 pos apartment in Israel and where the singing group "Coning" remained in debt to both the Israelis 8 and a half million dollars and the company "Zagorje" 170 million kuna. Therefore, it was not better for our companies either, a good part of our companies also suffered from the construction of POS apartments, if it was not privileged. Here's how I see a colleague of the Koreans wants to get to the point, so I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92537	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92538	Thank you very much. Although it would have to be fixed here practically from the beginning to the end because, unfortunately, a colleague here didn't realize too much. I'll fix it and stick to the quote when he said Cres didn't go with the competition. Cres went to the competition. Furthermore, I would also correct his incorrect allegations when he said that related to the pig farm and unresolved land, the pig farm is a land that was settled with the city of Zagreb, as you know through a pre-contract that has the weight of the contract. It's about the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92539	Now, here's your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92540	Thank you very much. As far as the replica is concerned, I'd be replicating my colleagues when he said about the quality of the apartments in POS. Dear colleague Markovanovic, I would like to warn you that the apartments in POS were not built by butchers, they did not build or know textiles but were built by builders. So the quality of apartments in POS is just a reflection of our construction industry, or our construction industry. So they're just as good and bad as those other apartments on the market, just not then 900 euros, but then 3,000 euros. Maybe with video surveillance, but trust me, video surveillance doesn't make for the quality of construction. As for the sale of business spaces and garages, which you mentioned in the context of Cres, I would like to tell you just one detail, that in the apartments that I inherited in the buildings that were residential business from the Home War programme, we tortured for four years to sell the business premises that were in those buildings. I don't know how many competitions we've made, so for Dubrovnik, for the Refrigerator, for Zadar, for ine facilities on various destinations in our country. So no one was alive interested in buying these business spaces or buying these garages. So here we solved what urbanism assumed, so urbanism said there had to be business spaces, and in order to get rid of that ballast, we basically got the construction companies to keep it going, not that the state had to sell it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92541	Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92542	Thank you. Well, here's a colleague of Chicin-Shain's really been in an unfavourable position, because wherever Minister Radimir Cacic was written, it was written in exchange for Alenka Kosha Chicin-Shain. So Mr. Cacic didn't sign any of those contracts and I believe that a colleague and actually has to defend because she signed it all. As for the quality of the company that takes over was that engineering firm like Coning's firm takes over construction, it must also be responsible for construction works. We can't say e "Coning" gets a job, I'll take, I don't know on the road I'll pick up a couple of people come on you build. Now they can't build, so I'm not to blame here. So that's not true anyway. As for the purchase of space, I believe that part of the space remains unsold, I agree, but 29 garages on Cres Island again I claim has a great, great value and I am glad to see, I must commend "Coning" no one wanted them so they received it as a gift, probably with the thanks of the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92543	Honorable representative Marko Širac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92544	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister. In his presentation, colleague Markovinović described a series of irregularities that occurred during the implementation of the POS programme in the past time, i.e. during the former coalition government. I think he should also point out the decisive reasons why this government has proposed that the provisions of Article 18 be deleted, because, in fact, by eradicating these provisions, more work is made impossible directly to the one who has the land. He who has land available today, who owns the land, and he is a construction contractor or legal entity or firm, when this law enters into force he will no longer have a chance to contract with the agency with a direct contract. He must go first land must be sold to the agency, and the second must go if he wants to perform the work as well as everyone else on the market. However, it would be good for you to explain to us how these works were carried out, you entered through that commission, in the name of the compensation for the performance of the works, giving us valuable business premises and valuable apartments. I don't get it, so I'd like you to explain it a little bit more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92545	Replicate response, respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92546	Here's a thank you. Well, that's very hard to explain because there's no trace. Only the annex determines that Coning became the owner of the space and owner of the garage. There were other interesting things. It was like at one point construction, back in annexes, and some contracts had seven annexes. At one point, Coning becomes a government lender, so the ministry. Well, then, with the next annex, it's moving. So then the next annex again, the Coning company becomes a creditor, clearly under the conditions that were probably agreed, which were appropriate. I believe that POS apartments will still talk a little bit about POS apartments, probably even when another firm here exhibits about its cities, it is, I see that we are entering the agenda of the state's attorney's office so there will be work to do because for all POS apartments I think a year has been a little seeing, and the state's attorney's office hasn't responded yet, so at least one two, three years will take us. I'm hoping in this term we'll clear that up, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92547	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92548	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Here's a couple of such commendable or constructive parts again first. First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that all these changes and the additions to the Law on Encouragement Building are just undermining the purpose of this model, I justify its existence, and it is finally proven to be socially beneficial, and that is practically, to obtain recognition and the right of citizenship by the fact that it is going to change and supplement this Act because obviously this Government has realized that this is a good model to be continued. Unfortunately, my remarks are about dynamics. I think the model will be good when the dynamics increase as much as needs show. So, if there are thousands of cities and several thousand demands to solve housing issues for people living in these cities for over 10 years, I think that's enough argument to allow these people to live in these cities, especially since these are often young or younger people who end up with their jobs and existence and their lives tied up to these cities, so I think it's better to keep them at home than to say they're sent to America or some other country where such educated citizens often find themselves. As far as POS is concerned, it is certainly desirable to compete with a construction explosion that is currently using the housing deficits to raise prices in a dizzy way, both on account and on the cost of desperate citizens. Often this is about money that has succeeded in any way, acquired during privatisation, and I think that such often times in this construction conuktura that money is very questionable in the privatisation service and serves to further develop a building extension from which further money is then created, so all of this expensive wave of prices of apartments on the market especially in large cities is something that this ministry should end up, of course not just bureaucratic to define but to see under what conditions companies do, etc. So, licensing that we know you've already been through. However, I would still like to be in that very fact that it is actually intruding into a very lucrative business of construction precisely in that fact lies the multiple obstruction of POS over a number of years, so I say that all of these or most of these changes in the law I find positive, I welcome them, and I believe that they are on the right track. So, as I said earlier, I welcome and collect land from 70 euros to 140 euros per metre square apartment because just in the cities of high urbanisation we have a situation that the land price is very high, but there are usually lower municipal contributions and vice versa where land is cheaper means on the perimeter of cities there is usually no municipal infrastructure, so it needs to be built so the prices of the municipal structure are more expensive, higher. However, the HNS would prefer to see that instead of a linear increase from 70 to 140 that it was based on an assessment of the tax administration for one reason which I would mention that there were both those cities and those municipalities, I will not name them, who gave up land prices or who gave up land for the construction of dwellings from the model encouraged housing because they understood precisely those more intelligent mayors that in this model and the possibility of addressing the housing needs of their citizens. Of course, it was simple, nothing in life is bad, so that land is not bad, but it is burdened by other taxpayers of those units. However, it is in this segment that the small part of the social sector that is always mentioned in POS is, although it is often said that POS is not a social programme and is not because these apartments are being bought. However, this balanced price has social elements in it and helps people resolve their existence. As I have already said what the shortcomings are, or what I think is not well done with these changes and additions, let's subtract this water contribution, I would once again warn you of it. I think it's wrong that you didn't put it in there, but what I'm essentially referring to is, of course, the question of having your own property or restricting the availability of property when you buy it. I don't think that's good because you don't even know what a real market price is, who determines that market price, whether it's the tax administration price, whether it's the price of an eye, who gives consent, whether it's the agency, it's said it can. There is still a lot of uncertainty in this article on 28th, i.e. in the new article of these amendments. And finally, removing the possibility that a construction operation can offer its land to build apartments from a fostered housing, I don't think that decision is good regardless of the kind of life-saving vehement debate of fellow Markovanovic who unfortunately sees this thing from only one negative angle. I would give a series of examples of exactly the opposite character of very positive examples where the obstruction of local administration did not show the possibility of building apartments from the POS programme and the interest existed. So, interest, the citizens who were interested were having an inertness or obstruction of the units of local self-government did not lead to this unit finding land and offering it for the construction. For this very reason, I think it is possible for a construction company to report that their land is often mostly storage spaces that companies no longer need because the working conditions have changed to offer their land for construction. Of course, that something must be of interest because the interest is not in the price for which it will sell that land to APN because that price is mostly minimalistic rather than that interest is precisely in the fact that it employs its own operation at twelve, twenty-four or eighteen months as long as it will be built because this employee operative that does not bring any particular profit but of course brings at least that so-called. Zero, so they have employees, people can get paid, etc. For example, I would like to point out to you and the minister will probably explain it to you later in the session, for example, to the case in Sibenik where the company "Lavcevic" was built there, or to Bila Briga, where the company "Lavčević" was building the same. So, it worked a lot of various construction companies and not the ones that came yesterday, so on. newly-composed construction companies of ficus or piano or one person than where they built construction companies that have since been a construction company in this country. Thus, these companies have just managed to hire and feed people in such construction sites. So, all that you've been saying in favor of the negative perception of this article, I have to deny you and say that you're wrong, that this article has just been good and that it's been working out what's not going to be resolution right now, and that's the one hard, very often and limited bureaucratic structure of a low-ranking politician in local self-government units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92549	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92550	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Shain cited several incorrect allegations and I will try to correct only two of my time. First, this law does not determine the price of land 140 euros per metre of square or 980 euros per square metre of apartment. This law lays down the above amount of the price, which means the maximum amount. It could be him and 60 euros per square metre, it could be one kuna. As for the restrictions on the availability of property, every citizen can sell his land, sell his apartment. However, this law restricts smuggling with that apartment. I or someone else report that I'm socially endangered, I get an apartment, and then the next day I sell it twice as much because the market price is almost twice as high everywhere in these big cities where cities are built.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92551	Second correction, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92552	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's an incorrect, incorrect claim from a colleague that it's been an obstruction of POS over a few years. That's not true. The conditions have changed, and due to the banking conditions above all. Bank loans have become very, very favourable and many have actually turned to high-quality construction companies, which could have actually made apartments in the short term. Secondly, the second correction is not true to look at everything from a negative angle. Whatever angle I stand in, I see the same thing. And from every angle, you can see that the company of Prime Minister Cacic's candidate is simply out of business. Here's the first time we've seen it in 2005. One is even a liquidated company. How come none of them were liquidated while Mr. Cacic was Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92553	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92554	... If this were a violation of Article 209 I would like to ask you, Mr. President, in the first part of Mr. Markovanovic, about which correction of the incorrect assumption was it also? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What claim did you correct? ... [[Intruder: Now]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92555	And the next correction, Honorable Representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92556	Mr. President, I'm going to correct a quote from a colleague mentioned by his colleague, Chirac. It's about a colleague saying that this, by introducing a ban on alienation of the apartment within 10 years, limits property. That's not true because at the moment of bargaining and contracting, that future buyer is not yet the owner. He just accepts the terms of the contract. So if they answer him, they will accept them, and if they do not respond to him, they will not accept them. Therefore, at that time, he is not yet the owner and cannot be threatened by ownership rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92557	Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92558	Here is the Honorable Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues have already said most of what is important about this law, and I would, of course, like to support the amendments and additions to the Social Encouragement Act, and these changes are in some way the result of the problems that have been observed so far, and these are suggestions in which the shortcomings that have been observed so far have been addressed. What I think is important to say is that the POS has certainly given results from the very beginning and has, of course, solved a lot of housing issues primarily of socially endangered families. I think it is good that part of the funds for the purchase of construction land, the construction of a municipal infrastructure that is required to provide or be obliged to provide a unit of local self-government now of 35% of the value of these investments enables the return of units of local self-government. We often had a situation that the units of local self-government were in a difficult situation, financially in the budget when the commitment was to be carried out and so it was difficult for them to close these financial structures. I would mention two important points that are now changing, supplementing or connecting them. The fact is that with this current price of up to EUR 70 per square metre, it was not always possible to find sufficient amount of building land on these market principles to build POS apartments and with an increase to 140 or to 140 EUR per square metre. I think we're still doing better than we've been able to solve this problem. In particular, I think that even buyers of such land or investors will have to focus more on POS apartments outside the strict city centres or in smaller places because of the lower price of building land there, of course. But I'd like to say one more thing. I think that the lack of building land was also affected by the very environments and construction firms that knew that they needed to live in certain environments. That there's an interest in POS's apartments. They knew that limited resources regarding building land and, of course, driven by market logic bought this building land in time and then, in some ways, led investors and the state into this situation that they had to build POS apartments in subsequent contracts. I think there's been a lot of manipulation here in practice, that there have been artificial land shortages and on the other hand, pressure from interested families for POS apartments, and I believe that this proposal has been affected, which abolished the provisions of Article 18 that allowed companies that give their own land to build apartments in POS without a public tender to conclude a contract on construction. I believe that with the new price of increased land, we will be able to find enough land to build POS apartments. And this last thing that I have commented in correcting the incorrect quote about the ban on alienation of an apartment within a 10-year period that is now being introduced, I believe it is necessary. If all of us were to be correct and fair, then the laws shouldn't even be passed. But I think the laws should prevent those who want to manipulate. Reflecting on this situation, I tried to make a calculation that is probably in itself and a number of shortcomings but said: "Someone can buy in Zagreb POS's apartment of 80 square meters per 900 euro square meter and that cost is 72 thousand EUR's." In theory, the next day, I can sell this 80 square-square apartment to say a lower price than it objectively is 1500 euros per meter and will receive 120 000 euros. The difference is 48000 euros. But that's how he makes 120,000 euros in cash. He comes to me in Karlovac and buys a 60-square apartment of 1000 euros and remains purely 60,000 euros in his pocket, of course, with the one he used to take over the loan but which is also under the well-favoured terms and terms and as regards interest rates. That's why I think this provision is very welcome and I support that provision and the whole bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92559	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92560	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Jelkovac, I'd like to correct the quote when you said the construction companies were buying land, and they created a situation where the land was not there. Namely, I'd like to tell you that primarily what's in such an environment is that there's an interest in buying apartments. As soon as the cities are larger, the land deficit is higher. So it's not that someone was buying land, it's that they simply realized that the conukture is such that the need exists, and it has its own land. It's the first correction to an incorrect quote. The second correction of the incorrect quote refers to this example that you gave for the purchase of 72,000 in POS bought an apartment in Zagreb. Resold tomorrow for 120,000 and going to Carlovac. You can't do that. At first hand, he returns, funds return, funds return to the state. So, as much as the state has invested, so much is coming back. On the other hand, you can't go to Karlovac tomorrow and buy POS's apartment there because you've already consumed your rights, and you've consumed it with the fact that you've been registered in Zagreb for ten years. So you can't if you come to Carlovac tomorrow you won't be reported for ten years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92561	Thank you. Replica. Dear representative... Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92562	My 209th colleague was correcting something I didn't say. She said he couldn't come to Carlovac later and buy POS's apartment. I wasn't even saying he was gonna buy POS's apartment. He buys a normal apartment on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92563	Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92564	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, speaking to a colleague of Jelkovac about land manipulations, I will set an example for you of Varazdin, for you are accusing, and you do not know who you are accusing. For example, in the area of the City of Varazdin, the largest land complexes were purchased by tycoons that were accidentally or not from HDZ. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Just talk impossible, and the companies that build POS apartments in the City of Varazdin are either the presidents of the board or the owners or co-owners of the same HDZ, so let's not blame someone because I see without the intention of defending Mr. Cacic because I have no reason to. But I have a feeling that you orchestratedly use the opportunity to attack Mr. Chacic. Let the members of his party defend him, and he himself. But the fact that by saying that the city of Varazdin can give land for POS at a relatively attractive location in the wider center of the city. It's just a matter of those cities and their administrations that find or find no interest in quality apartments being built in the wider center of the city, or maybe it's a reason, and that didn't give it to the Czech Republic, it's not Mr. Czech City of Varazdin. You seem to forget that the City of Varazdin is a little bit wider than Mr. Kramarić is saying. A few months ago, he was crippling him, and now he's loudly praising him. But the fact is, we can't always blame the land on one and the same. Let's get some balvana out of your eyes first.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92565	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92566	I really don't know where my colleague Korenika read HNS and Mr. Cacic. To be honest with you, I wasn't thinking about some individual tycoons, I was trying to speak in general. And here's the next thing you know, I'm just gonna tell you one thing I'm worried about. I'm surprised that in Varazdin, where HDZ is not in power, some of you say HDZ tycoons bought land, and in the rest of Croatia it's HNS or SDP tycoons.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92567	There's something wrong with that. Yeah, that thing at the Helsenboyer Castle. The final review of Minister Marina Matulović Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92568	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I thank you for supporting this bill of ours. What I would like to answer on behalf of the SDP club is that when the market value of the apartment will be determined. The market value of the apartment shall be determined on the date of signature of the contract. As you probably know, it's a pre-contract first and then it's contracts. On the date of signature of the contract, the market value of the apartment is also determined, and that is the amount to be paid, so that if someone wants to buy it, they sell the apartment. He'll have to settle that market value of the apartment. The proposal to apply not according to this law, but not to go according to the old law, but to this by amendments and additions, and if it goes in favour of the customer, we cannot accept it because I have already said that not only should the interest of the individual be looked at, the interest of the state should also be looked at. Here the state and local self-government units bear a good share of the funds, and in addition equality with other citizens. All those who have taken an apartment under the law so far bought an apartment in front of a contract. So they can go on the basis of a contract when they're going to make the right deal, when the apartments are going to be finished or at the end. As regards Article 18, it would have been very good if that article had never been in the first place, because then the ministry, i.e. APN would have bought land in Split, and it would not have allowed that land to buy Kerume after Kerum Dalconing, so that the contracts with them would have been carried out on the basis of Article 18, and that after that day, the City of Split was in charge of judicial proceedings with Dalconing. Or, an example of Varazdin which Mr. Korenika has now encouraged me and I think it is necessary to say, which is that for the City of Varazdin the situation went so that the state gave the city of Varazdin free land. The city of Varazdin sold the land to Koning, and Koning built POS apartments on the basis of Article 18 and sold it naturally through APN to people. Therefore, we do not want that ever to happen to us again, and in no way can we accept that we return Article 18 and put certain builders in a situation that is simply not appropriate for them. And just one more thing. Ninety-six apartments were in smaller areas. It was bought on a list of 287 apartments. We had to buy the rest of the apartments for the victims because no one felt sorry for them. And what the former ministry agreed, although it should never have, but APN 576 apartments gave up on the basis of the article, and they bought, I think they started on the basis of Article 18 because there were no lists in those areas, and the prices were those that these builders determined to the maximum value of 910 euros simply no one in the small environments managed to buy. So 576 apartments gave up. Therefore, there is no reason to base myself, to leave Article 18 and to continue to apply. APN needs to be built, local self-government units need to buy land through tenders, local self-government units can do the same if they don't have their own land and I'm sure POS will move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92569	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92570	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote that says this would have been very good if that article had never been done. I'd like to remind you that APN went on bid twice to buy land on the boat. ... Well, that's what I'm correcting, that quote. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Madam Minister, I'd just like to refresh your memory of the sale-related land tender that was a company in bankruptcy, so he bought the "Kerum" APN twice at the competition, so the price was too expensive compared to 70 euros as defined by the programme. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92571	And the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92572	The truths for Madam Minister, the fact is that the city of Varazdin was donated by the Government to a military street in Križanić with all the land and the fact is that they built together the apartments of the Pos "Coning" and "Zagorje" which were already mentioned in the context of the collapse and everything else, did not just buy "Coning" land but common "Zagorje" and "Coning". Because of the true truth that it is known after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92573	Okay. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Encouragement. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, Alenka Košasa Chicin-Shain and the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the deadline. The first thing we need to do is vote and discuss whether or not the amendment... Article 166 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rules of Procedure discuss and vote? So, please, who's in favour of discussing this amendment and voting, the amendment to the government? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 89 for, 3 abstentions, 6 against. So that amendment will be discussed and voted by the governments. Minister, go ahead. Explain that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92575	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So this is the only thing we propose to add to Article 2 below: "The payment to the local self-government unit is made within two months of the Agency's charge from the customers based on the concluded pre-purchase agreement".
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92576	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on that amendment to the government. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 82 for, 7 abstentions, 4 against amendments accepted. Amendment of the Committee, amendments to the Committee on Legislatives?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92577	We accept... 2. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92578	Both of you. They become an integral part of the Law. Amendment 1 to Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92579	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The POS Act has already been defined that only commercial premises can be sold at the market price of real estate that cannot be less than the cost of building a building, which means that the land price of EUR 140 per square is not affected by the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92580	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92581	Thank you. It is clear that it is a matter of adjustment, an increase in the limit, of the price limit mentioned. For 10% of the floor on 20 and it is visible that it is placed in the context of the price of the apartment or that any purchased land cannot charge square meters of useful... the area of the apartment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In some buildings, it is clear that the land price should not be put in line with that business space because the business space is sold at market price and is financed from the sale of that business space. The clarity of work should be added at the end of indent 1 that this does not apply to part of the land relating to the business space and garage space. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92582	Please vote for that amendment. Who's up for that amendment? The result? 21 for it. Five abstentions. 64 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2 to the House of Representatives as well?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92583	It's unacceptable. We discussed Article 18 a lot. We believe that you cannot directly build and that you need to conduct public tenders for everyone, for every job and so on. We therefore propose that Article 18 be deleted from the law and we do not accept amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92584	AIenka Koshasha's representative Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92585	This amendment proposes that Article 18 remain in force or not to be deleted. It is thus abolished that the construction company can give or provide land for the construction of apartments and build itself without a public tender. The conditions are that there is an interest in the purchase of apartments, i.e. that the sale of these and such apartments is indisputable, so that if there is an interest in buying within the limits prescribed by law, there is no reason for the abolition of that article. Namely, all the apartments in Split, the apartments on the boat are realised in this way and 400 families have solved their housing problem and if it hadn't been for today they would have been without their apartments. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92586	Please vote. Please, let's get on with it. The result? Seven for it. Six abstentions. 71 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 86 for, 5 abstentions, 3 against a bill passed along with the amendments accepted. We are going to - - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the execution of prison sentences, second reading of P.Z. R. 645 Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and Justice. State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Snjezana Bagic will further explain the proposal. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92588	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is before you in the second reading as the final proposal is to amend and supplement the law on the execution of prison sentences. As has already been said at the first reading about the amendment and the addition of this Law are proposed for three basic groups of reasons because there has been a change of set of other laws since its adoption for some 5 years which require the harmonisation of this Law. Likewise, the practice has shown that it is necessary to make more clear and more detailed provision and determine the powers of the judge of enforcement and for the same reasons, therefore, because of clearer and more detailed regulation of certain rights and obligations, hence the way in which the prison is carried out in relation to the prisoners. In fact, when it comes to the first group of laws, in the meantime, these past five years, a whole series of laws, the Law on executive proceedings, the Law on litigation procedure, the bankruptcy law, and the Law on civil servants and the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation have been amended and therefore this Law needed to be harmonised. This group may need, as it is related to official relations, to the fact that it is necessary to set a time limit for candidates to be admitted to the workplace of a judicial police officer, who is otherwise required by a mid-level expert, because the younger life span assumes with due respect to all of us who may be in the middle age or even older still assumes better physical condition for officials, which is needed to maintain order and discipline among prisoners, i.e. because of the successful performance of this job and suggests that the administrator of the penitentiary and prison may, has the power to decide, i.e. on prisoners and employees, then it should be clearly prescribed that this prison manager has the authority of the state administration. When the Penal Code entered into force, the new Institute of Conduct was established, it proved necessary, in fact, to protect, or control, the prison system against the exercise of the rights of the prisoners, however, it showed that the provisions relating not to the powers of the judge himself but rather to that part-rounded real and local jurisdiction of a particular court, i.e. the judge's exercise in that court was more detailed in order to avoid the practice of difficulty and thus allow for the simple application of this Act. And perhaps the most important group of amendments that are proposed, which actually refer to a clearer and more detailed regulation of the execution of prison sentences. The basic principle is, of course, the sentence of prison and the system of state as a repressive system shows its relationship with someone who has sinned against social rules. At the same time, however, these persons are still in prison, no matter how long they last, are persons who have certain rights and who... The prison system needs to be able to do so, so that it is based on the principle of resociation by respecting the principle of the individual maintenance of the prison sentence, so for each prisoner after he has been examined, after his affinities, abilities are established, the health status is determined and developed by an individual program of execution of prison sentences, and this Law clearly determines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the rights that a prisoner has, therefore, is his right to work, it is unquestionable, but it is precisely because of the increased interest in work that it is proposed to amend some of the provisions of this Law and thus to amend the provision, i.e. to extend the possibility that not only those who have been sentenced to jail for up to 6 months, but also to punish prisons for up to one year may continue, if such arrangements are reached with the employer during the maintenance of the prison sentence with their employer or carry out their own activity. It is also possible and prescribed that it can be done if there is no possibility that everyone can be hired full-time, that they can be engaged occasionally or in shorter working hours, and then the compensation for it is determined depending on it. In addition, as regards health insurance rights, it is determined that inmates in medical care who are medically insured persons are subject to this treatment on their own burden and only those who are healthless go to the burden of the prison system’s funds or on the burden of the budget. Also in detail are the provisions for visiting and granting visits depending on visitors' persons, and I must stress that in order to protect the victims, it is proposed to prescribe that the prisoner will not be allowed to publicly step up in the media. This is no reason to prevent someone from freedom of speech or to prevent the general right of freedom that is general law, the constitutional principle, but precisely because it is most often about the hard works where we have victims and who do not want their families who do not want to go through it again. Then the question arises as to why people who have sinned about the system, about the social value of raising them to a rank of such media attention as if people who are actually publicly breaking up and because of their public merits and contributions to society should be present in the media. Finally, provisions on the transfer of prisoners have also been laid down when the need for various reasons to go from one penitentiary to another that the transfer which is one question of the execution of a prison sentence is in the custody of the administrator. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is the final draft of the law, so let me just say a little bit about the differences that arise between the first and the second readings. The difference is that one further alignment is now proposed with the Law on State Servants, which is that the Minister of Justice is proposing to establish a proposal for admission to the civil service of officials and subsistence in penitentiary and prisons on a proposal from the Director of the Administration for the Penalty of Penalty. And also, in order to comply with the recommendation of the Committee on the Prevention of Torture, inhumane and humiliating treatment, it is prescribed that the measures imposed by the female cannot be consistently... except for the written consent of the prisoners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In contrast, the promoter carefully considered some of the suggestions that MPs made in the first reading and did not, which he did not want, but could not accept. One of the remarks I think was that it was Agent Nikola Vuljanić's decision to continue with the law to provide for the possibility of a working prisoner paying contributions to pension and disability insurance. This remark, although it sounds rather social, could not be accepted because I stress that when a prisoner does so is his right, so it is his right but that his work engagement is also an element of the individual program of execution of prison sentences but he is not in a working relationship and therefore does not exercise those rights which we all exercise from our working relationship including the right to health and pension insurance. I have already said in the opening statement, and I will only repeat that the proposer, the suggestion to return to an earlier provision, that the possibility of working in the former employer or his own activity be returned to six months, was not accepted not because someone would be threatened or particularly favoured, but because the number of penalties being imposed up to one year and it is estimated that they are not so socially dangerous on one side for which they are punished. And on the other hand, because experience shows that people who work and when they stay to work with their former employer actually meet that social purpose in supporting their sentence. Also, as regards the remarks made by MP Ljubica Lalić, in relation to Article 20, he really carefully considered the proposal and, if I am not mistaken, the remark was that a person was allowed to continue treatment there in some community, so also in some social therapy community. Otherwise, the Justice Department... The prison system with the Office for the Prevention of Actually Drug Abuse is implementing specific rehabilitation programmes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this case, however, we are talking and this law actually enables persons to implement the fines, including prison sentences and security measures given to persons with the power of judgment. Therefore, it is a judicial verdict for someone with a prison sentence, and it then imposes a security measure of mandatory treatment, etc. Therefore, this law only implements what has been imposed on the court and the possible acceptance of the objection would mean, or would require a change in the Penal Code and not this Law, but I use the opportunity to say so, and in Article 20, it seems better to me now, and that, in the maintenance of the sentence, it would mean that not only those who have been sentenced by law, but also the security measure of compulsory treatment, so when we talk about prisoners who have been told such a thing, but also prisoners who are also addicted to those who are not determined when they are given the sentence and are later shown in their treatment and treatment that they are addicts and also refer to the maintenance of penalties in a special social treatment facility or special department. Here, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this seems brief and important to me on what is proposed by amendments and additions to the final draft law on the execution of prison sentences. This amendment law has been proposed by the Legislative Committee, which is mostly nomotechnical, improves the text of the law and will be adopted by the Proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92589	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? Justice? Committee President-in-Office, Honorable Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92590	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. At the 56th session held today, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the proposer's representative referred to the differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law itself. The most important differences in relation to first reading are contained in Article 7 which the Minister of Justice gives consent to the State Department's admission plan for the needs of the prison system, and in Article 10 which regulates the procedures and conditions of reception in the State service and Article 38 regarding rules of conduct and the protection of prisoners. In the debate, members of the board supported the majority of votes the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. The majority of the members of the Committee of Opinions are that the applicant has carefully considered and respected the significant comments from the debate in the first reading. The debate showed special attention to the rights of the prisoners. It is estimated that the proposed changes from the expert point of view have a positive assessment and that there is no observation that they are improving the situation in the prison system. It is the individual opinion of the Committee member that the proposed amendments to the law in relation to the existing law do not contain good solutions regarding the rights of prisoners. Comments have been made to Article 3 of which it is proposed that prisoners returnees maintain the prison sentence in a special penitentiary or department. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the final review, the applicant's representative pointed out that the assessment of the situation in the prison system was given in the Work Report, which clearly shows what efforts and material resources are being invested in the prison system. With regard to the execution of the sentence of the prisoner of the returnee, it is not necessary to establish a special sentence but to establish one or a department in a penitentiary or in a prison. The mandatory treatment safety measure shall be carried out in quality in institutions according to a specific programme. After the debate, the Committee on Justice proposed, with 6 votes against and 2 votes against, that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92591	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HSZ, the esteemed representative of Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92592	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State and Associate! It was just that the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Prison Penalty Act wanted to bring all that had not been harmonised so far, and therefore the following must be pointed out. That the Law on the execution of a prison sentence with amendments and additions applicable from 1 July 2001 and that its adoption was a legislative reform of the legal system, the enforcement of prison sentences since the law is in conformity with the international conventions adopted by the Republic of Croatia and with then applicable legal rules. However, it was certain that the Penal Code had to be harmonised because many new rules had to be laid down to comply with this law. What is particularly pointed out is its modernity, which daily practice in prisons really wants to be raised to a higher level and to exactly one, the need for a clearer or more detailed regulation of the execution of prison sentences has been established. Many of the laws that this law is now in line with are laws that prescribe the possibility of prison sentences in other legal proceedings. This is primarily the Law on Parley Procedure, so the Law on executive and bankruptcy law. In particular, it is a very important instrument to execute prison sentences that have been imposed in criminal proceedings. It is certainly particularly important to point out that the actual and local jurisdiction of the executing judge is prescribed, that it is also in line with the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials. This reference of prisoners to a psychiatric institution was to be brought in line with the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation. This is certainly one approach that was intended to be given to a human note in the execution of a prison sentence. Therefore, an individual programme for the execution of prison sentences and its contents is clearly prescribed individual programmes for each prisoner, and a revision is also reviewed in accordance with the prisoner's behaviour and performance process in fulfilling the obligations. Of course, after the execution of the prison sentence, the prisoner will be able to continue a normal work and engagement in the social community later on. It is very clear that the work of prisoners during the maintenance of prison sentences does not constitute a working relationship, and that the prison or detention facility in which the sentence is maintained is not an employer but is seen in the context of an individual prison detention programme. As well as prisoners and inmates who are health insurance should be treated on the burden of their health insurance, while inmates who do not have health insurance will be treated on the burden of the state budget. This also applies to a cash compensation during education that should only be provided to a prisoner who does not have and cannot be provided for work. It is also a very precise link to the outside world, which is actually one of the fundamental rights of prisoners and is realized among other things by telephoning. It is understood that the prisoner is pleading, and it is entered into the prisoner's phone numbers and persons with whom the prisoner can use the phone, and so are the persons who can visit the prisoner's identity. There are also exceptions here so that conversations, phone calls, or representatives of an institution or an association dealing with the protection of human rights cannot and must not be monitored. And this is one way that you will and the person in prison to show one social concern so that it can be resocialized in some way to be ready once he has served his sentence, he repents that he can normally be a member of the social community. I would also like to highlight what is particularly implemented, which is the individualisation and personal responsibility found in Article 7. The proposal for a plan for admission to the State Service in penitentiary, prisons and training centres shall be determined by the Minister, of course on the proposal of the Director of the Administration of the Prison System, and Article 7 shall be discussed in this respect that the Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary shall be admitted to the State Service and deployed to the position of administrators and shall decide on their rights and obligations under the State Service and on the termination of the State Service. And yet the director of the prison system administration is admitted to the state service and deployed to the position of assistant directors, head of the department at the penitentiary. It is also said very clearly that this is an entirely one approach where everyone by name and last name who behaves in a responsible function can carry out a specific choice, but that for that choice and corresponds. In Article 10, it is specified to what year of life if the conditions of admission are medium professionally prepared that it is 30 years of life that can be received in the ministry because it should be not only psychologically but also physically strong to introduce order and discipline among prisoners. It is also very valuable to point out, among other things, why and what it is intended to achieve with this law, namely that, in particular, the Penal Code is in line with the Law on Criminal Procedures, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Criminal Law, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials, the Law on State Servants and the Law on Courts. The approach that should be supported in any case is also the procedure of approval and the authority to authorise visits to the penitentiary and prisons which should be more clearly determined and more precisely prescribed depends on visitors' persons and depending on whether this visit is necessary for the purpose of collecting data for the conduct of the criminal proceedings or whether it is for the visit of the local community body to establish and maintain a link with the social environment. The proposal, this amendment and the additions that come down to the 55th article, are very clear and soundly speaking about the course in which our criminal policy is going, and how it really wants to give full care to those who have made a mistake in their lives, who have been convicted and who should be prepared for normal work after the punishment is carried out. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club also supports this final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Prison Penalty Act and with the suggestion that permanent amendments are being followed in the future so that indeed the Croatian Parliament is a dynamic legislative body that monitors life not only in Croatia but also in developed European and world states.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92593	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92594	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state, respected director, co-workers and colleagues. Here is a colleague of Peronja, saying on behalf of the HDZ Club, mentioned a fundamental law now proposed by the government to amend this final proposal. Namely, when the Law on the execution of prison sentences was passed during the former government, we have just been assessed by international institutions that Croatia finally has such a law on the basis of which it builds a prison system at the European summit. Here's a little bit to remember from the media of that time. The Croatian prison system is located at the European summit. The Armenians want to reform the prison system according to the Croatian model. Here's the "Evening List" or "Free Dalmatia." Croatia has the best transition prison system. This is the end of 2003, i.e. the beginning of 2004. So with the adoption of such a law, we have also received such an assessment of the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, based in Warsaw, which I repeat here, it estimated that then Croatia had a system that could be an example of the prison systems of Southeast Europe. This law incorporates the principles and standards of European prison rules, rules for the treatment of delinquents, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and the European Convention on the Prevention of Tortrum and Inhuman or Demeaning Treatment or Penalty. For the first time in the Republic of Croatia, this is a detailed way and the course of execution of the prison sentence and the position of the right and protection of the prisoners' rights during the time of the prison sentence, which is why this Law on the execution of prison sentences is highly assessed by experts for the Council of Europe's prison system. For the first time in the history of the Croatian prison system and in the year we introduced a judicialisation of the execution of the prison sentence, which means that the execution of the prison is no longer left to the executive bodies of the administration alone, but we are introducing a judge of execution. It was one big step in protecting human rights. It is also noted that within the framework of the Croatian prison system that we had former economic units, penitentiary offices in Lipovica and Požega, every little bit of an affair had erupted on business in these economic units. And then that's exactly why, and based on the Prison Penalty Act, it was precisely from the former economic units of the Lipovica Penitentiary and the Požega Penitentiary that new companies were formed. In the meantime, 20 special sublegal acts have been adopted, etc. etc. And what is the situation now in Croatian prisons and penitentiary prisons, this has been reported in detail by the Public Attorney, who for the past year and the previous year submitted a report for 2005 assessing the Croatian prison system, namely very humiliating and argued that human rights are being violated there, that the conditions in the prison system are below human dignity. He confirmed it, or repeated it this year. After all, we can talk about the success of criminal policy as much as we want and boast, but every expert on their own... will tell you that enough is enough to look into prisons and penitentiarys and you will have a picture not only of the prisons and relationships of society to those persons but of the state of human rights in that country. Unfortunately, situations have been defeated, but it's true what my colleague Peronja said, with this bill of law, what we want. We want to coordinate the situation, and that is bad, that we are, instead of seeking to achieve standards in all of our fullness of this Law on the execution of the law and also the final proposal to improve the situation we are essentially in a bad state that is actually bad we want to cover with the same or bad legal solution. That's a bad way to go. Such a threshold doesn't lead us to solve the situation. So what does this final bill make? The rights of prisoners are reduced drastically, the rights of authorised persons are reduced. It's back to politicizing the system. I note that no tenders have been opened for prison managers for the past year. I don't know what's waiting. The director's powers are being reduced, and therefore the whole series, I'm going to talk about, in my personal debate on individual articles, but the SDP Club will not only accept this final proposal, but it strongly protestes against the reduction of the human rights of prisoners but also the rights of officials. Deputys, persons who are, who are employed [[- Okay, okay.]] in the prison system and which during the former government received a 30% add-on and declared [[All right, let's get this over with.]] in this way to the people who have the most stressful occupation in the country. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92595	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go. That's how it is. [[Intruder: There was something wrong with the President's time.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]] And just in your case, the clock breaks. [[Intruder: Yes, yes, the clock broke.]] Well, we're not gonna take it hot to spoil watches. [[I want to believe it's an accident.]] So what was that? ... Yeah, well, that's why it seemed a little too fast for me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92596	Yeah, yeah. I know we're running out of time when we're here, but I wouldn't want the time to go by in this chat, and we can wait later. Here you go. Well, I thank you, and I think good things should be repeated, but I still believe that you listened carefully and we move on. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] So according to this final draft law on the execution of prison sentences, the warden of the penitentiary and the prison does not have to have experience from the prison system. That's a bad provision. It's a bad provision, and it doesn't have to be an expert who's just experienced human relations. That means that a shipbuilding engineer can be headed by Leprechaun tomorrow. Whether it's a good message evaluate it yourself. We at the SDP Club think it's a big step back. Then there is a great regret that I have already stated, in general, the special rights of authorised officials when it comes to salaries are deleted by amending and supplementing the law which is certainly not good. Namely, salaries and additions to the salary of authorised officials not only are deleted but the salary increase is also deleted by 0.5% for each year of completed work experience as well as compensation for a separate life. You can't do it here because the whole concept of basic law is that exactly people who are employed in the prison system are separated from the norms and the entire system of civil servants and tenants. So in this sense, the existing law, the fundamental law of our law, the law on the execution of prison sentences is a legitimate specialis, and it does not need the good things that are embedded there because of their special difficulties that meet in everyday work and on the stressful nature of this work, perhaps you should at least be warned and distracted by the promoters. So this is a bad solution. The law on the execution of a prison sentence mentions a legion of specialis and material rights should be contained here and not drowned in legal solutions together with the Law on civil servants and tenants. As I have already highlighted the salaries of officials with special working conditions during the former government have been increased by 30, 30 and 25%. That was one good message. I also note that it is very important that the conditions, investment procedures and which no longer seem to be possible. Please, there have been 15 investment procedures. Here's the nice Mr. Director pointed out the amount spent in the prison system. So to our penitentiary and prisons. Only he probably forgot to say that it was all done by the end of 2003. We should've moved on with that. Apparently there's no means to do that. Adaptation was carried out, the equipment of the semi-open prison department in Gospic, the prison in Bjelovar. Circular wall adaptation complete. It was one huge investment in Lepoglava Penitentiary. Adaptation has been completed, accommodation facilities in wing B has been equipped, and Croatia has been sued for human rights violations, but on the basis of this verdict, funds have been urgently found to renovate this particular B wing. Then the adapted roof in Lipovica, in Turkish penitentiary, Požega and not to list any further. But what's going on right now and I don't think it's good in any way. First of all, we are warned about the state of prison, the situation in Croatian prisons and penitentiaries. So now I won't repeat what the civil defender has said, detailing the devastating situation that the sick are suffering from the punishment with the healthy. Even TBC patients, that's not good. We even have a legal solution here that wants to cover the current situation in prisons, which means that now as it happens in practice. Now, because it's going to be in place of the law that it's sanctioned and that those shortcomings are being cleared, now even the law allows it. Yes, and the relapsers therefore support the punishment of those persons who are only for the first time encountering the penalty system, which the very system can and should act on. Therefore, we must not allow our prisons and penitentiary to become schools of crime but places where at least they will be able to influence at least these primary delinquents if society cannot act on irreparable returnees. What's also devastating is that, our media reported a large number of fugitives, suicides, drugs are no longer a rarity in prisons. So what do we see now? By amending this law, you don't always have to react. We see this in that special provision when the provision is deleted that it can especially be returned with these benefits so that it can be tested or tested for drugs. I don't know why this is being abolished especially because it's also the obligations of the National Anti-drug Programme. I would like to note that during the former government, care has been introduced in the Croatian penitentiary, and what is now happening is that these chapels are therefore re-making dormitory, of course because the directors at the head with the director no longer have anywhere to place the defendants' arrivals. And why did such a situation occur in prisons and penitentiarys? It is therefore a picture, a defeating image of a misleaded criminal-law policy which then, all its faults reflect and finally come to the charge right in our penitentiary institutions, i.e. in prisons and penitentiary. It should be urgent, therefore, if we want to help and resuscitate in this situation and even without funds, except that the detention facilities and the material resources need to be responded in a way that changes these provisions to... The penal code, and some provisions in the Penal Code, and above all, in the penitentiary to prohibit the replacement of the inability to charge fines to prison. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This has additionally burdened the prison system, not to mention a whole series of crimes that are better off not being found in the Penal Code, but that the state reacts in a different way to such conditions and social relations. Here I will mention only those who burden the prison system, who are more patients than some malignant enemies of the system and society. These are intoxicating drug users who are sick and who are mostly burdening Croatian penitentiary and prisons, and there they only become even more difficult addicts and suspended criminals. Therefore, let us all do something together for this challenging situation in Croatian prisons and penitentiary, which is specifically being warned by the attorney general in both last year and this year's report, and also here.../President: Good. Well, let's not just have one now, so one goes like sausages. Here's another sentence. Croatia has been convicted by the International Court of Strasbourg as a violation of human rights in laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92597	Please. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovinović is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92598	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague. Well, we've increased our salary clearly to the prison guards there by 30 and 25%, which would be if we watched 30% first, and then 25%. So there's an increase in salary by 60%. As far as I know about that percentage, they were moving in fact reducing the salaries of civil servants, not increasing, so this certainly isn't true. Keep going. A colleague says that prisons are just drug users, which isn't true. ... You said it. [[You can't hear it.]] As far as I can remember, you were helping your husband get rid of drug dealers at the time, right? That's how they write the paper, and I'm just quoting. And a third. It's not true that this is moral, says this is a moral picture of a misrung prison policy. We're just going back to what you were doing as a minister and using your husband as a lawyer, right, I think that was a moral picture of your ministry and your policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92599	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92600	... in breach of the Rules of Procedure of Article 209 because it comments, but it is not only comments but also faceless lies. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92601	Well, now we can't talk like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92602	Yeah, yeah, we can, we can and we need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92603	We can't talk like that. You can disagree with the MP. To claim that he's hurt the Rules of Procedure, that you're correcting the incorrect allegations and everything. But again telling him to tell faceless lies is an offensive one behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92604	That's right. That's right. His behavior is offensive, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92605	You can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92606	Okay. You're going to let me say what I see as a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92607	Yeah, yeah. But now I'm warning you, you can't use that kind of expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92608	It's good. This is the first innuendo I'm saying to my behavior that these are, here if you claim that this is too harsh a word of conscious deception and inaccuracy. Because if he doesn't believe, and neither did I show myself about it, the State's Attorney's Office was manifested, so it can be detailed on their pages.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92609	Okay. It's already correcting the correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92610	Which was posted on the Internet. So he's misusing the institute to correct an incorrect quote here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92611	It's good, so we can't do it again now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92612	That's one inaccuracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92613	You can't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92614	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92615	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Bozica Šolić. That was a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92616	Thank you very much. Here I would correct Agent Anticevic when she said in her debate that certain places in the prison system had raised salaries and even to 30%. But that's not true. I would remind you that in 2001, when you passed the Law on Officials and Tenants during that period, the salaries were reduced, but all officials and tenants in the entire state system. What did you do next? You've made a redistribution after that and then you've pulled those similar to you to raise their salaries, which is even more absurd if you've even taken our boys' salaries off the council guard who's responding and keeping us, just you, me and all the MPs and taking care of our safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92617	Are you sure it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92618	Absolutely. My colleague hurt the Rules of Procedure... Article 209 correcting my correct conclusion that during the former government, a decision has been made to insist on the government's decision for officials due to special working conditions in the prison system, so please take a look at it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He pays up and uses a 30% supplement, and the department's employees are 25%.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92619	Comrade Antičević, you can't do this. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You deny it again...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92620	Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92621	...and you claim to be. Order! You claim it's incorrect. Thank you very much. It's from your side of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't put in a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure and claim that the MP is speaking incorrectly, because you've spoken correctly. It's a correction to an incorrect quote. These aren't the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, so you know that very well, and don't do that...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92622	But you can't exactly fix something wrong. So please!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92623	You're not going to say something's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92624	So look at the government's decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92625	Well, neither you nor I nor you nor anyone else can. If a representative or representative has a correction of an incorrect statement, that end shall end. You said yours, the representative and the representative say it's an incorrect claim and that's the end. It's the end of the debate. ... We're not on the 19th century, we're on this Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I guess you'll need him to give you a good study. Oh, come on. ... We can't correct the correct allegations. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honourable representative Ljubica Lalić on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go. Please allow MPs Lalic to speak in peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92626	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate and colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club also views this Prison Penalty Act as a desperate attempt to propose a difficult prison situation, i.e. a difficult situation in the prisons that the government has and that we are aware of that reports by the Ombudsman, as well as from other reports. We made our remarks in the first reading, however, it was obvious that the promoter did not consider them to have been established. Perhaps the promoter believes that there is no other way to get out of a difficult situation and therefore resorts to the worst possible way, and the worst possible way is therefore to bring the real situation into line with the law by adapting the law to what is bad. I would really like to be able to agree with part of those who assured me in the early 1990s that prisons in Croatia would be closed because we are building a state without crime. No state is without crime and neither is the Croatian state without crime and it is indeed obvious that we must invest in prisons to ensure that prisons are maintained in the way that they are prescribed and established not only by the laws of the Republic of Croatia but by the laws and the Member States of the European Union, and I know that we can be told that there are countries where the prison system is far more inhuman than we are. In my current debate, I would really like to refer to an article that contains this bill, which was convinced by the State Secretary in her statement that she did not get me very well, that my remarks did not get very well at first reading. According to the applicable law of Article 20(4), the article also reads: "According to prisoners who have been sentenced to mandatory treatment against addiction, who are involved in the sociotherapy procedure in a special penitentiary or in a special section of the penitentiary." So it's a quote of the article, and it seems very good to me because it provides all those convicts who have accepted psychosocial therapy in the treatment community before the prison's sentence and have accepted the treatment procedure. However, this article is also amended by the Proposer to explain the amendment. The amendment to paragraph 3 and the erasure of paragraph 4 is proposed because the law stipulates that in a special penitentiary or special department of the penitentiary, prisoners of addicts who are subject to a prison sentence to a mandatory treatment of addiction, who are involved in the sociotherapy procedure prior to their arrival. Such a provision prejudges the sending of prisoners to a special penitentiary only on the criterion of inclusion in a sociotherapy procedure which may be professionally and safely unjust because the reference to a particular penitentiary depends also on the type of criminal offence, the level of punishment, the characteristics of a person, the assessment of risk, the criminal characteristics, the need to educate the work of treatment and the other elements of the proposal for an individual programme of enforcement drawn up in accordance with Article 69 of the Law. Therefore, it is said here that the previous provision prejudges that those who are punished for imprisonment and are given a protective measure and have accepted the withdrawal or psychotherapy procedure in communities are prejudged. And now we have an amendment to that article and a new item reads: "Inmates who have been sentenced to prison, who have been sentenced to a mandatory treatment of addiction and inmates who are drug addicts who are involved in the treatment of addiction in the course of the sentence, the sentence that prisons are being held in a special social therapy penitentiary or in a special sociotherapy department of the penitentiary." So, now with a clue to that argument, it would be concluded that the purpose of this article is that only those convicts who come to the execution of a prison sentence and who are ongoing may be referred to unlike those who have previously accepted psychotherapy do not have to be referred. However, if we bear in mind that it is all prisoners who have been sentenced to prison and a security measure regardless of whether or not they have accepted sociotherapy prior to the prison sentence, they are all referred to a separate, special social therapy penitentiary or a special department of the penitentiary, and that is good. So, if I can find out that only the argument is wrong, because it's completely wrong to explain, and if this new provision means that it refers to those who are before and those who are at the time of arrival and who are after the start of the punishment, then it's to welcome and it's okay, but I say it's a little confusing that explanation that is in itself contradictory and that it can't be interpreted as prejudicing, because prejudicing is a place of penalties, it's a security measure itself, because it's quite clear to me that this law regulates only the maintenance of a legally delivered verdict. He can't change the verdict. And in that sense, I am looking at the other part of the not-not-obsess, but the warnings I pointed to during the first reading debate, which is about the persons who committed the crime committed or closely related to the addiction and only because they are drug addicts. I said then and now I repeat, I know that based on this law they can't be put into treatment communities instead of prison sentences, but as it is about the same ministry, I propose here to the Ministry to initiate amendments and supplement the Penal Code, so that's why we get just that because it's always trying to weigh the fines, which means the sentences... And for the good part, a large part of the prisoners who are put in prison for committing a crime in the area of addiction would be a far more effective treatment measure for them instead of maintaining a prison sentence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the secretary of state, I think you understand me now. Run the amendments and additions of the Penal Code because I claim that the convicts maintain the sentence of prison and that the sentence of prison can have a more devastating effect for them than it is in the therapeutic communities and that they are being treated. Because they're not genetic criminals they committed crime because of addiction or related, in close connection with this addiction. So I've tried to explain this misunderstanding, and we're still staying right at that finding that this final bill is nothing more than a desperate attempt by the promoter to make a real state of affairs, an unsatisfactory situation in the penitentiary, which, of course, we can't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92627	Thank you. An individual debate. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92628	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. It seems to me, personally, that this proposal is a step back in the treatment of the prison system in the Republic of Croatia. I'll take the turn. I'll probably do it again with my previous colleagues. But I don't understand why Articles 7 are going with the selection of directors, why suddenly the director of the prison system administration doesn't have that co-responsibility but also the possibility of proposing to the minister of those who are supposed to be prison managers or penitentiary? It's interesting that suddenly the minister can name and choose everything. However, responsibility for the entire judicial system is primarily with the director. And at the same time, he doesn't have the ability to choose all his associates. By the way, Madam Secretary of State, I would ask you to give us an explanation that the reasons are that after the end of the term of office of four years you have not announced the competition to the administrators and there is no today's competition but are appointed officers of the manager's office? There are likely to be changes and additions to this law. Then it will probably be easier for responsibility to be passed on to someone else because we have a typical Croatian situation here with the HDZ government at the head of Croatia. It will always be someone else's fault if an escape or anything else happens, the minister will answer first and foremost to the manager, and those who led to everything else will not know anything about them. The second thing by talking to experts from the penological system because in the area of the Varazdin County are two penological institutions is interesting and people who are of the profession, who wonder how so? Well, according to these amendments and the additions to the law, it's enough that someone wants to be run for a prison manager or a penitentiary, first of all they don't have to have a certain professional training and a certain calling, so it's only a state official with five years of work. Penological institutions are typical institutions where we should have professionals who build their careers and who know how and how to work in such institutions. In this way, the way things work, we'll have managers who'll learn from their employees, which is for every conviction. Those who have spoken about whether salaries have increased or not for the past government or last parliamentary majority just to remind them a little. The first step was to cut all our government officials' salaries first and foremost. We are government officials, obviously it was wrong and we paid for it by losing our choice. However, the fact is that it cannot be ignored and it cannot admit as much as we have here the unfaithful Toms or Tomics that by 30% in 2002 the salaries of the Security Department officers mean to those who are in direct contact and who are guarding prisoners, and the treatment staff have increased salaries by 25%, as it has been found that persons working with, in penitentiary with persons deprived of freedom, it is one of the most stressful jobs. What I would also like to point out and ask some questions refer to Article 26, and I am interested, it is said, when approving the convenience of the exit, data from the Centre for Social Labour or the Police Administration and other bodies may be requested. I'd like to know what other bodies they are? Because we can come to someone who can benefit from it right now. If we don't know what those bodies are, then someone can ask Marica off the street, it'll be some other body that she thinks of some prisoner and he'll get lucky. In Article 31, I would pray that I too, meaning that this article, in Article 37, seems to me to say what an escape is. The escape is considered any distance without authorisation from the penitentiary, prison, etc., and an extraordinary exit for more than 24 hours. Now, I'm curious, on that road, it could happen that when a prisoner returns, there's a car accident, he gets sick and everything, and I think there's still going to have to be a complement that can be justified by some kind of traffic jam, an accident of anything. So that's not even an escape, and I hope that's what you're thinking about, and that's the solution. What I'm particularly interested in here is that, here it doesn't say, but in reason you should say something about it, these are investments in our prison system. When we discussed the situation in our prison system for 2005 and then we concluded that there was subinvestment in the prison system. Over the course of this year, several government officials have been exchanged in Varazdin, and it has been reportedly announced that they will create a new prison in Varazdin, so here I would like to pray that here I be told clearly and loudly what stage is the construction of a new prison. The current one's in the middle of town, we don't say it's inappropriate. We haven't had a chance to live in it happily, but I'd like to know how these investments are done because when we look at the state budget there's either very little there or there's no such thing. When there was a debate on the state budget, I asked what happened to that prison in Varazdin. I'd like to find out at which stage it is, whether it's making documentation, what it is. Also, speaking with people from Lepoglava and those who work in prison in Varazdin, they complain that there is simply not enough education for those working in Croatian prisons, so there are no additional courses for managers and management skills, there are no additional courses for judicial police officers. Then, there are not enough courses for treatment officers in the area of alcoholology, psychological assistance to prisoners, treatment with drug addicts, etc. So I'd like you to probably tell us something about it. And what I will finally, quite certain, is that today's prison system in Croatia characterises the pre-opulation. There are few prisons where we have plenty of room. Is that the efficiency of the Croatian police, and I wouldn't say the judiciary. We have too many unfulfilled jobs, and therefore the burden of persons or employees working in prisons is simply too high, there is a lack of equipment and financial resources. We know that we also have prisons, or penitentiary, in which there are certain economic activities and where this lack of funds feels. It seems to me that the government should take more care of it, allocate more money because then we will regain what we had in 2002, 2003, when the Croatian pinological system was in some way a model for transition countries and for countries in the region. Today, unfortunately, that's not the case. I personally think, and I will not support the passing of this law because I think this is a step back. This proposal to amend and supplement the laws especially on the election of both the director and the manager, I believe that it is a step back and that it suits, that we are creating a political choice where there should be an absolute profession and a choice of professional people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92629	Thank you. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92630	Thank you, Mr. President. So I actually wanted a few sentences just instigated in this part of the final draft of the law where it speaks of basic issues which are wanted to be regulated by law and the consequences that will arise, and among other things it says that this law ensures the equal position of all prisoners during the maintenance of the prison sentence and, in certain rights, their equalisation with other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, raises the level of security of the penitentiary and prison, the administration of the prison system and the long-term reduction of the costs of execution of the prison sentence. However, I have to say that I actually wanted to remind myself of some of the things we recently discussed several months ago this year when it came to the report on the situation in our penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions, or what was written and what was said by the Ombudsman in his report on the state of the prison system in 2005. I mean, I'm talking about it because in 2006 we'll probably just be discussing it if not this year, then some new meeting. In fact, it is absolutely not clear to me how this proposal will work in this particular way to amend and supplement the law because for several years now, the situation reports in the prison system have been identified among other things, such as the problem of the failure of systematicised jobs, which means the jobs of doctors, officials, treatments and insurance officers, or judicial police officers. And it is repeatedly said that the cause of default is, in fact, a ban on admission, among other things, a ban on admission to the state service, and then I return to what is also shown in the reports that therefore officials are forced to do an enormous number of hours overtime. In fact, this increase is very large and when compared in 2004 and 2005, so I would like to remind myself that, for example, in 2005, precisely because of the increase in the number of prisoners and thus the scope of the jobs of officials, only the officials of the judicial police achieved 205 thousand 985 overtime hours. The management itself calculated that they had practically done a job for 99 employees who were unfortunately not employed. So the administration itself has shown that there are approximately 129 employees missing, with the assumption that the assumption itself would be that if so many new people were to be employed, it would also be a savings for the state budget precisely because of the cuts in overtime and that the savings with the assumption of employment would amount to more than 3 million kunas and around 3 million kunas and 300 thousand kunas, and it seems to me that this law that we are discussing in this part today is not saying anything at all. I would be interested in how and how it is meant to solve this problem. And the second thing I want to say is, it's a well-known creation that we have already said several times during the debate in this House, but also in other places that Croatian prisons are overcrowded and they are in poor shape, so when we discussed the 2005 report, it was said that Croatian prisons can receive up to 3,000 and 9 prisoners and in 2005, there were 3 thousand 80. That's when 71 extra prisoners were found, so to speak. So, the conditions in which these prisoners do so to say their sentences to the prison were actually described by the attorney general in his report. And I'll read only two, three final sentences in that report by the attorney general saying, "The basis of the review of all the penitentiary institutions cannot be seen the obvious imbalance between the purpose that is to be achieved by the execution of the prison sentence and what is truly achieved. The execution of a prison sentence in such a way that prisoners are locked up for 22 hours a day in poor and inappropriate conditions, weak or no possibility of working, and the insufficiency or absence of work of the department is a property of punishment based on absolute theories on the purpose of punishment." And so on and so forth. I don't know, I'm saying we'll probably see on the 2006 report whether and how the objections of the Ombudsman and the Council of Europe have been respected when it comes to the situation in our penitentiary and prisons. And I'm taking the opportunity to appeal to the prison system administration not to wait for next year to get a 2006 report but to still be this year because there have been a lot of remarks that we've been discussing a single report since it passed, and more than a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92631	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92632	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, it is very interesting what the Union of State and Local Officials said in its statement, and the truth works. I think we here in the Croatian Parliament should stick to the truth. Perhaps opinions can be different but facts are facts. Or the facts are denied so much worse for them, and we know what system it was in. And which system we condemn but gladly adhere to his methods. Especially when the truth is impertinent and wants to get away from it instead of making it right, especially if it's bad. So the Union of State and Local Officials and Deputys of the Republic of Croatia, and this is the Committee on the Judicial Police, held at its press conference on 11 March 2003: A regulation on salary supplements based on the working conditions of the prison system officials of 30% was adopted. It's also very interesting. A judicial department has been set up, plans have been built, insurance plans have been developed. The complete, please, 225 officials, with the consent of the then Government of the Republic of Croatia, were filled with vacant posts in the prison system for 110 employees. That's not what I'm saying. That's exactly what the people who worked there say. If someone suspects exactly the government's decisions that are probably still there. Furthermore, that is also true, it is also verifiable in the ministry itself, as the ministry has acted. In no case has the ministry given a positive assessment of the perpetrator's pardon in connection with drug abuse. Not at all. Would it be interesting to see what it's like now? Although I believe it's being followed by the principle of conscience and legality. So many gentlemen of truths do. And now we go back to the further truth that we need here, which calls for common forces to act, that this, this is a very sensitive system. I don't think it's just the manager, who's no longer the manager, but they're V.D. Wardens, Mr. Director isn't easy at all. But that's exactly the responsibility of asking for help. Our prisons and penitentiary cry for material means and for help. It's a difficult situation. The question here is how much is invested in the system, or what is the current situation with the prisoners and the people who are employed there? It would be really interesting to find out how many inmates have committed suicide in these three and a half years, how many died in a prison cell because of overdose, hunger strikes, the beatings of prisoners. Overcapacitation here has been repeatedly highlighted. Unfulfilled jobs, lack of equipment and financial resources are characterized by the prison system today. It's a bad situation that, where the manager is and where the director with staff is powerless in that inflow of convicts. The public was announced by the government several years ago to build new prisons. The new prisons are being built, and here's the report from the attorney general only at his intervention is a blanket because one of them was freezing there somewhere I don't know which penitentiary. So it's a tough situation. They patch up there to say as much as they can. I asked exactly that the Justice Committee, that was also in the past system when it was necessary to provide additional funding from the State budget from that reserve that was not previously intended for the prison system. I think we could do it here. But I don't know why the SDP's conclusion is about the police attorney's report, and that's exactly what he's looking for. To find them, because that's what the attorney general wants. To find additional funds for the prison system. So God forbid there's a riot or some kind of disease tomorrow, we'll all pretend to be deaf, dumb and blind. And I think then the principal will answer because now, and he's stopped by, but now he's quiet, he probably got his pucks because he made a public announcement with that difficult situation. The situation is difficult and there is no need to reduce the problem. Because you, here I am now, will be here for me but also only the Ministry who directly, and Mrs. Minister, who is directly in charge and responsible for the prison system. The prison system and with the best means is always sensitive. So I think this is now a place for us to see together what we're going to do here? Why, if so, the government boasts that there is an excess of huge resources, that they may reach somewhere and so on. Why does this part of these huge funds that the government doesn't know look any more like they're going to spend all of them in the service of the prison system? And you'll all agree so someone's going to reduce the problem, but no one's going to say so, and so are you, and Mr. Director says it's not great. That it's a difficult situation. It doesn't need to be further dramatic, but I don't think getting away from reality will accomplish anything. And that's why this final bill is not good. I can't take it personally and our club won't support it. First of all, here I'm going to give just a few examples here that are reducing the rights of the prisoners. You have several cases where his rights and complaints are decided by the judge. Now all of a sudden, the prison system itself is incorporated. So what's that for? Let's let it go, so we don't have faith in the judge of execution. It is a completely unnecessary provision that then relativises the judicialization of the execution of fines. That's unnecessary. These good solutions, you have a whole series of legal proposals where you say, "St. 5 is deleted, paragraph 8, is deleted," and we see little that is deleted? Good provisions are deleted that probably the system cannot meet these high standards? Here's what's deleted. In this Article, paragraph 5 is deleted. So there was one security for the prison system manager unless he was re-elected. Therefore, it will be deployed to the workplace corresponding to its professional preparation in the same penalty. Now it's wiped out. The man will stay on the street. I don't think that's right. Then it was mentioned before. In the article, the existing Article 30 to delete the provisions on the salaries of authorised persons. They're practically shrinking. A provision of Article 6(3) shall be deleted that an authorised official who is temporarily transferred to work in accordance with Article 31 shall be entitled to a monthly allowance for a separate life, provided that he maintains family, accommodation, diet. Now it's over. So, the difficult conditions of those people who work there are already getting harder. Instead of having fewer now, and the prisoner, the convicts are becoming increasingly relieved of the situation even though it is very difficult now at all what are human abilities that they simply can no longer satisfy in view of this change that now in many, in some penitentiary and prisons is 180%. So, what's your situation? The media have informed the public that night vessels are being reintroduced into our penitentiary and prisons. Well, that was a feature of the Yugoslav caesamats. And today it's not out of some tendency to torture them there, but because there's no person, there's not enough guards to take prisoners overnight to perform physiological needs. The same way the media reported it. So, in these chapels of mental care that was introduced during the former government, instead of improving it, because it certainly has its therapeutic purpose and role and helps simply the system and people who are employed there. Now the beds are being dragged in. And the beds are being dragged into the social halls. We saw the other day, we were reported to the Bilice what's going on, so where's the gym? So everything that prisoners, convicts serve at the end and what's in the service of resociation is now what people can do in the prison system, rather than suppress those spaces and drag the beds in. Therefore, but the prison penalty system is not by its own fault, but it will be guilty and responsible if it does not highlight this problem because it means that, to simply cover it instead of finding it and pointing to problems because we know what the Mrs. from The Hague is saying or the judges who judge there. And you knew, and you didn't take it, where you called it in. So that's the responsibility of the leaders. That's the kind of thing I think you should react to in time. I'm saying, this final bill of law, unfortunately, is a harmonisation, but harmonising bad practice with here's the bad law now. Instead of changing our practice and harmonizing it with the good standards that we have in the existing law and what a pity it is to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92633	Thank you. 17.31 hours have elapsed for a ten-minute hearing. And we still have five minutes of debate on behalf of the SDP club. That's enough. Thank you. Final review, final review by State Secretary Snježana Bagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92634	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The reflection of a society that is considered and built as a democratic society is what its prison system is like, that is, as it refers to those who suffer a prison sentence although they have sinned against the standard of social behavior when the repressive system so provides for a sentence for prison they have certain rights. And in this direction, the process that we have begun by passing laws and resolving prison sentences, the Government as a Proposer intends to continue these amendments and amendments to the law with due respect for the criticisms that have now been brought forward during the debate. How the law needs to be constantly improved, including rights and obligations, shows exactly the example of this law, and I am glad that it is said in the debate that it is a democratic law because the preparations for the draft of this law have lasted since '97. and the eighth year and the law was passed in '99. A year. So this High House voted him out in '99. A year. So, for example, during the previous term of the Parliament, the former government, which came into force in 2000. Since then, it has been changed twice, or three times in 2000 and twice in 2001, and twice, not once in 2002 and 2003. Now we're changing it again this year. We told you about the reasons, so I won't repeat them. What I wanted to say, however, is next. When it comes to the possible reduction of powers from one side of the director of this system, and on the other hand, there is no talk about it. However, we have even, if we can say so, been disenfranchised by the minister because, according to this bill, the minister sets out a proposal for a plan for the admission of employees and officials, including, of course, the judicial police in our prisons and penitentiary, and the decision is made by the Director. As far as rights and obligations are concerned, but in particular the salaries of officials and deputies working in the judicial system do not change anything. This law is in line with the Law on civil servants on certain nomo-technical matters, i.e. in terms of expressions. And as for wages, wages are not changed by this law. The Regulation which has been provided for and whose legislation has been passed, the Rights Regulation, the conditions of work achieved and the right to special additives remain. At the end of the line... That's the right of a collective contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, wages remain the same. There was a union talk here. So three unions operate within the prison system. Everyone had this bill before they went into procedure. He also passed the Economic Social Council, and it is certain that social rights have been touched, in particular, the salaries of prison employees and penitentiary workers would have suffered criticism by then. So, about these redundancies of their rights can't be spoken of. As far as I'm concerned, and I'm glad that's been mentioned in the prison system so far, he's been constantly suffering from the fact that there were not enough employees and tenants in this system, and that directly threatened the safety of this system. We've warned about it many times. The result that we have already been employed this year is actually new compared to the existing 1367 judicial officers, and we have called a tender, a tender for 171 judicial officers is under way. The reason is that it was not only a prohibition as stated in the report by the Ombudsman, but also the fact that, according to the Law on civil servants and tenants, each body must, as well as the Ministry and Administration of the Prison System, adopt a reception plan and, accordingly, be approved. The reason more precisely when it comes to the prison system and the judicial officers and the fact that they have so far not to endanger the safety of the system has been working overtime, and they are not doing well because the distinguished representative Gordana Sobol has rightly noticed, because so many hours are good for them because they have received more money paid out of the 15 million kuna budget, on the other hand, it is not good because these people are doing a responsible and difficult job but are, of course, exposed to a great deal of effort and exactly the fact that it is irrational and that it is irrational, so do not hire new people who are working hard and responsible, but they are therefore exhausting themselves and can directly compromise the system is because this year we have been granted approval and I am calling a tender to fill this system with 171 new judicial officers. As far as education is concerned, the education centre has continued to operate continuously and the following educations were conducted only in 2006. A basic course for law enforcement practitioners, an introductory course for judicial police practitioners, the resolution of incident situations in the prison system, the prevention of infectious hepatitis and AIDS diseases, the resolution of conflicts with prisoners through communication, the handling of situations, the prevention of drug abuse, the communication skills of basic informatics and these educations, this type of education passed only last year from the total staff of all and judicial officers, i.e. those working on insurance, treatment and officials, so of which 2385 last year only passed in the last year 741 employees. As far as the rights of prisoners are concerned, this law does not in any way reduce or question itself, although it is intense and already under the existing law and through the amendments to this law it will be possible to actually respect these rights continuously and to exercise those rights, and only when it has already been so represented in the debate, one of their rights is their labour engagement and they do. Last year out of the total number of prisoners 71% were employed. Trend increases are present year by year. For example, in 2005, 1190 were employed and last year 2006. It was 1320. As for the kind of education that they are going through as the same right, we had them in total that they had passed various kinds of educations of them 394. This was a description of them 15, elementary school 78, training for specialized professions 172, various courses 116 and not taking any more time. Health checks and a total of various types of examinations went through 121 thousand 985, i.e. health checks were completed in total for all prisoners. So much for that kind of care and care for the prisoners. ... attention is paid to the organized use of leisure time so that cultural events, concerts 23, theatre performances 24. [[You don't understand.]] Second, masses, galleries, museums 280. Meetings sports, football, table tennis, basketball, other activities etc. So we can't talk about the prisoners in the little rooms being squeezed, that they've been there for 20 hours that I can't even get some air and stuff. In fact, this is just a brief review of these activities showing that it is very well taken into account and that it is certainly our duty and obligation to respect their rights. So when it comes to incident situations, it should be said that last year, or this year, no escape from our prison system was recorded. As far as the suicides were concerned, they were in last year's 4th. That number may sound very bad, but if we compare it to external conditions, we cannot consider it to be a particularly alarming sign or something that would indicate a particular problem. This is not to be justified and it should be prevented, but it can happen within all possible security measures, and it is for us to continue to prevent and prevent it. However, we recently organized with colleagues from France a round table where they, if I may say so, wondered why we organize a round table because in French prisons they have an average of 121 suicides per year. And figures show that Croatia is among those countries when it comes to the prison system, where the level of suicide is lowest. Suicidal as such is something bad, we shouldn't brag about it, but sometimes when we look at comparative images, then we can see that we're not the worst. And speaking of these companies, of course, taking into account all the critical remarks of the attorney general, this was about the night vessels. They are certainly not in any prison, they are only possible in hospitals for people deprived of freedom for people who are otherwise unable to perform an emergency. However, as far as international institutions visiting our prison systems are concerned, they have seen the need to expand the capacity to improve the opportunities of the prison system and thus to improve, but have not seen such catastrophic actions or something that would lead to this, which would speak of a catastrophic situation, which, even in the European Commission's progress report, progress reports, missions that come into Croatia and, as well as screening, is not given particular attention to the prison system in this way. But that doesn't mean that a report by the general defender and our institutions should also not be observed with due attention as it comes from these... In the past years, in particular in the prison areas in Varazdin, Split, Lipovica, we have expanded our capacity by 250 spaces to increase the space accommodation, or 250 prisoners. [[You don't understand.]] I am also pleased to apologize to Lalić, who is absent, for removing this perhaps misunderstanding in interpreting the application of the drug addict's safety requirement treatment measure, so it will be applied to the one who is and before these measures have been imposed on him and when it is spoken to him and after being admitted into the system will immediately continue to be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92635	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. I'm finalizing a debate on this subject. The vote will be when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92636	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 87 votes for, 6 abstentions passed by the proposed law. I give the vote the conclusion: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to perform the editorial of the text of this Law before its publication in the National Journal. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? 89 for and one abstention of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92637	We are moving to - The report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2006 - you have received the results of the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2006. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. You received his reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. Is anyone picking up? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this subject when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92638	Report on the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2006. Achieving the budget of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for 2006. I am giving the vote the conclusion: the said report is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 87 for, five abstentions and one against the proposed report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92639	We are moving to the next item of the agenda – the 2006 report of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia You have received the material into the boxes. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Educational Sciences and Culture. You received his report at the session. The government has delivered its opinion. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Would you like some? Would you like to explain the proposal? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Yeah. Here you go. The word has the president of the board. Here you go, buddy. Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92640	My colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia for 2006 at its 36th session on 4 July this year. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The report for the past year 2006 documented with 12 annexes provides an overview of the activities of the National Science Council, including the most important evaluation of scientific organisations, i.e. institutions, the evaluation of scientific programmes and projects, and the setting of conditions for choice in scientific titles, i.e. the power to direct choice in scientific titles, in particular for those envisaged cases. When it comes to the evaluation of programmes and projects, the report highlights progress in many areas. So compared to 2002 it was... 46% of projects are higher, and available funds have been allocated to this end increased in the same period by 52%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The special achievement of the previous year highlights the circumstances that for the first time in the tendering process, international reviews have been used, which is particularly significant, international reviews and that the whole process has been conducted by electronic means. In general, it can be argued that the conduct of operations in the National Science Council's department has been standardised through the adoption and implementation of appropriate instructions, forms, framework criteria, and the evaluation procedures by applying these and other acts, i.e. the criteria have been operationally worked out, implemented and objectively through the establishment and operation of the regional councils and judgment groups. Part of these criteria and procedures were adopted, i.e. established and implemented for the first time in 2006 and incorporated into the work of the National Council as a permanent value. The report shall, in particular, provide exhaustive data on the fate of the projects decided in the last year, on their degree of passivity by specification in scientific areas, all according to real and financial indicators. It is also objective and applied criteria for the approval of the amount of financial resources in the projects adopted. The report stresses that these criteria are consistent with the priorities set out in the strategic document, scientific and technological policy of the Republic of Croatia from 2006 to 2010. The evaluation of scientific organisations was in the service of two matching goals last year. Coordination of the evaluation criteria of scientific, professional and teaching work with the European Union's criteria and with the aim of achieving the most rational financing of scientific organisations. In addition, the debate highlights the peer review programmes, as our academic community is still unprepared for the adopted way of working, and it is difficult to identify the number of measuring reviewers needed. It has also been established that more than 2 000 and 700 projects as reported during the reporting period in terms of European experience should be considered excessive... it is necessary to adopt instruments which will be reduced at the very beginning through competition propositiones, i.e. in another acceptable way, by a concentration of projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Following the discussion of the members of the Committee, a representative of the rapporteurs of the report and other invited participants was unanimously given the following conclusion: The Committee on Education, Science and Culture proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a report on the work for 2006 of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia, submitted by the President of the National Council Prof. Dr. Kresimir Pavelic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92641	Thank you very much. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one checked in on behalf of the clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear fellow Letica. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92642	Report on the work of the Council, the National Science Council of the Republic of Croatia for 2006. I am giving the vote the conclusion: the said report is accepted. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 91 for, 4 abstentions accepted proposed report.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92643	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the International Convention against Doping in Sports, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 718 The proposal for an act was received in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, dear colleague Perman. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92644	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Doping, i.e. the stimulating assets have been growing more and more and more massive in the last 20 years, and all with the desire and goal of achieving as much sport as possible, and this is largely caused by the growing financial and material goods present in sport. Sports increasingly ceases to be a means of personal proof and psychophysical development of young people, and more and more means of acquiring the material benefits of clubs, managers and ultimately athletes themselves, and also very often a way to launder illegally acquired money in the world of grey economy and dirty business. It is precisely those who achieve sports results, which are athletes themselves very often become victims of their own ambitions, as well as the ambition of coaches, managers, clubs, and even their parents. I heard about a swimming coach who asked his swimmers to take male hormones to increase the muscle mass resulting in increased hairiness of athletes and loss of a monthly cycle, and also asked them to take vitamin substitutes without a production declaration of suspicious content that he personally obtained and distributed at prices higher than those that existed on the market. Many athletes remain permanently impaired health due to steroids and lacked the number of those who died in the desire for range beyond their physical capabilities. Many countries and international institutions, above all, are making huge efforts to end this monster. To this end, the World Anti-doping Agency has also been established and a world-wide anti-doping code and a declaration on anti-doping in sport and the European Convention against Doping in Sports has been adopted. The international anti-doping convention in sport was adopted in Paris at UNESCO headquarters at the end of 2005, and on February 1st this year it came into effect after being ratified by 30 countries. As the Republic of Croatia is also a member of international sports forums and associations, it is logical that this Convention is confirmed and officially passed by law in the Croatian Parliament. In this respect, the SDP also supports the adoption of the Law on the Anti-Doping Convention in Sports, confirming this international convention. In accordance with the new Sport Act adopted more than a year ago, the government adopted the Anti-doping Agency Regulation in February of this year, but with six months late. She also appointed a temporary director of the Croatian agency but also a month late from the establishment of the agency itself, or seven months late from the adoption of the law. No administrative board or expert board of the Agency has yet been appointed and its statutes have not been adopted. But here I can't help but mention the insubordination of the new Sport Act by the competent ministry itself. According to the law, a whole series of sublegal acts were to be adopted but unfortunately no, so no National Sports Council was established, no National Sport Programme was adopted, no rules on sports buildings were adopted, no implementing rules on the collection of public offerings and the search of professional clubs were established, no information system was established in sport, and the process of recasting professional clubs is in place, and there is no commission for professional clubs. There has also been no regulation on the conditions, type and manner of performing medical examinations of athletes as well as the rules on the records and documentation of these reviews, which has direct links to doping, and thus the health of athletes, so I must express my concern about the fate and implementation of this convention in Croatia. However, I hope that the international community will be a driver for the implementation of this law and for us, and in this sense I am expressing once again the support of the SDP Club for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention against Doping in Sports. And finally, just a few technical remarks. Namely, in the translation of the Convention into Croatian language in Appendix 1. which refers to the prohibited substances on the page 19. subtitle "anabolic agents" is marked "SI" instead of "S1", and on page 22 "enlarge oxygen transfer" marked "MI" instead of "M1", and on page 24 "alcohol" is marked "PI" instead of "P1", and the text under that title states "balling" and there should be "boiling". Same as in the text under the subheading "P2 beta blockers". Namely "cmsb" is a shortcut for the Confederation's Mundial de sport de bulls or the World Bosniak Confederation. I hope these mistakes will be corrected before they're published in the People's Newspaper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92645	Thank you, dear colleague Perman. We don't have any more club reports. We're moving on to an individual debate. A respected colleague, Slaven Letica, signed up. He's gone. He's losing speech on this subject. I'm concluding a debate on this subject. And we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92646	Final draft law confirming the International Convention against Doping in Sports. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 96 votes for and one abstentioned, passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92647	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the second programme loan for adaptation, emergency procedure – first and second reading, P.Z. No. 719 You have received the proposal for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The word has the Secretary of State, Mr. Ante Zigman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92648	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I would only briefly express and explain the Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty for another adjustment programme loan. It is therefore a second programme loan for adjustment from a total of three planned under the World Bank's aid strategy for the Republic of Croatia. In this case it is a 100m-euro loan, which is only one of the tranches, the first tranche is 100m euros worth in the 150m-euro tranche of what the second adjustment programme is. So what I'd like to say is that it's the most favourable way of funding, the six-monthly libor with a 0.52 interest margin, which in a certain way, with the possibility of reducing that margin, is down by 0.25%, so it's now 4.12%. What is very important for such a loan, which is at the age of 15, is that all loans coming from international financial institutions are very stable and this amount will therefore not be an increase in external debt because this 100 million euro will pay off part of the debt for the London and Paris club and, therefore, in that sense, this debt will have a neutral impact on the foreign debt movements. What is very important, therefore, is that this loan is not only a matter of money, so the 100 million euros that Croatia will take over from this loan, but it is a matter of improving the investment environment because through the PAL2 loan, certain conditions had to be met in order to meet both the conditions for this loan, the strengthening of financial governance and the strengthening of fiscal sustainability. So all of this together has in a certain way worked to improve the investment environment and the general economic situation in Croatia that we can see through the rates of economic growth, reducing unemployment and other favourable deficit cuts, other favourable macroeconomic indicators. Through the previous conditions that were to be met for this loan, it is therefore stated and in the explanation it writes a series of assumptions from health reform, social care reform, reduction of subsidies, which means that businesses in the Republic of Croatia do better business, conclusion of contracts between the Croatian Railways and the Croatian Privatisation Fund on the continuation of the privatisation of subsidiaries, etc. In this sense, the Ministry of Finance intends to withdraw the funds of the first tranche by the end of July, so after ratification in the Croatian Parliament, the funds would be withdrawn for payment of the London and Paris club. So what I would say is that for the other 50m euros under the second tranche, it is therefore necessary to implement some more reforms, which, of course, the government intends to implement in the third quarter of this year. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92649	Thank you very much, dear fellow Zigman. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. Does anyone want to come forward for a discussion? No, I don't. We're closing the debate. And we'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92650	Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the second adjustment programme. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Let's get on with it. To vote. The result? It's unanimous with 98 votes for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92651	Comrades and colleagues, we move on to the next item of the agenda. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 716 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on European Integration. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the draft law? Yeah. The word has been made by State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, respected counterpart Snjezana Bagic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92652	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. In front of you are relatively short amendments and additions to the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption of Organized Crime. As you know, this law is in the first row, which was adopted in 2005 and in its full application in 2002, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption of Organized Crime, as we call it popularly and briefly, as a special judicial body, or a special state attorney's office, which is tasked with preventing but above all to prosecute those suspected of committing corruption and organised crime. In these few years, not only legal assumptions have been created, but the conditions for USKOK to be able to and must work, to carry out the task for which it was established. As regards the jurisdiction of the BUSKOK, it is specified in detail in Article 21 of this Act and the catalogue of criminal offences under the Criminal Code considered as corrupt criminal offences and for which the prosecution of which is responsible, the BUSKOK is listed. For the sake of clear distinction and division of jurisdiction between state attorneys, regular state lawyers and USKOK, the legislator has defined for this approach and the specific provision of the law laid down in Article 21 by criminal offences considered to be corrupt criminal offences, these are primarily the most famous acts of customs and customs and customs duties in economic business. These offences did not include a criminal offence of abuse of office or authority. The reason for this was something that would not be punished, not a criminal act as a classic criminal offence for which the prosecution is a competent state attorney's office. The reason why this was not covered in the catalogue of criminal offences done in USKOK was that legal theory and practice stemmed from our legal tradition from the fact that this work, apart from obtaining benefits, contained damages both by the official and the responsible person and was considered to be extended beyond the limits of which it was established and of course organised crime and corruption by its introduction into the office’s catalogue of jurisdiction. However, starting from the meantime, the practices that corruptive crimes are never uniform and neither... The criminal offence that we include or accuse one person is not just perhaps one criminal offence and that some criminal act would be a corrupt crime in the first order is important to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] benefits and it is necessarily precisely criminal acts of abuse of official position and authority and in the extreme line on this as well as in international practice... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the legislation prescribed in the first row of the United Nations Convention on the fight against corruption, which also requires all States to create such a legislative framework that will allow the persecution and punishment of corrupt criminal offences involving also criminal offences of abuse of the position of power and when it comes only to obtaining benefits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is why, in the first instance, it proposes these amendments and the additions to the catalogue of criminal offences for which it is competent to extend USKOK to this criminal offence, meaning the criminal offence of abuse of the position of power laid down in Article 337. Penalty law. Furthermore, this law was prescribed to... That law shall apply for five years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Supposedly that doesn't mean anything by itself, but let me just remind you that this is actually about applying the provisions of the laws governing the Institute of the Crown Witness, Associates, Repentant or... Therefore, they are those persons who are members of a criminal organization but who cooperate with the State's Attorney's office and help with their testimony or allow the creation and discovery of the activity of a criminal organisation to the end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This institute, as such in previous practice, has not been overused since the entry into force of the law. Of course it's like this... measures and should not be used excessively, it has been used five times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the discovery of the most complex parts of organised crime is shown to be such, sometimes evidence cannot be collected if our legal system does not know and this institution of the crown witness is proposed to delete this provision or to allow... our legal system of this institute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The possibility is also prescribed, and it refers to certain actual powers of staff change that are possible within USKOK because, firstly, USKOK employees are recruited from already appointed state lawyers and deputy state attorneys as those persons who, under all other laws, are truly considered capable and show special inclinations and affinity to prosecute the criminal offences of organised crime and corruption. However, the practice has shown that despite the fact that the persons who come to work as vice directors of BUSKOK have passed certain checks and what is the selection... amongst the most capable state attorneys and deputy state attorneys that sometimes when they come to the U.S.C.C.O.C.C.C.C.C.E., some of them are simply unable to meet new requirements and work with the same intensity or with the same abilities in such criminal acts and are then proposed to allow those persons to return to work at the State's Attorney's institution from which they came. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here are the distinguished ladies and gentlemen MPs, these are the three major amendments to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92653	Thank you very much to the secretary of state. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Here's your colleague, the chairman of the Justice Committee. Here you go, pal Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92654	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 56th session held on 4 July 2007, the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime with the Final Proposal for the Law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 20 June 2007. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that this proposal complemented Article 21. The USKOK Act in a way that extends the jurisdiction of the USKOK for persecutions, so-called. criminal offences of abuse of position or authority. Since the Law amending and supplementing the 2006 Penal Code was amended in Articles 298 and 337. The Penal Code and Article 19. The 2003 United Nations Convention against Corruption determines the criminal offence of abuse of the situation should include this crime in the catalogue of criminal offences for which the USKOK is responsible. The proposal allows the deputy directors who do not show a tendency to work on complex objects to also return to work in the State's Attorney's Office. In the debate, members of the Committee unanimously supported the proposed amendments and additions. The opinion is that the European Commission’s objection to the Office’s competence with regard to the persecution of abuses of the official position and the proposed extension of criminal catalogues in the jurisdiction of the USKOK is given greater authority to the USKOK to work on the most complex cases. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92655	Thank you very much, dear fellow Tomljenović. I'm opening a debate. It's time for a esteemed colleague of the Slaven Letica who's not here to speak, so he loses his right to speak on the subject. We are no longer registered, and since we have from the working bodies an amendment, the Secretary of State wishes to show itself to them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92656	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On this proposal for a law, the Committee for the Law of the Croatian Parliament tabled two amendments, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted because the text of the law is being improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92657	Thank you very much. I'm finalizing a debate on this subject. We'll also vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92658	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer. The adoption of the law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, at least 77. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? unanimously with 95 votes for the proposed law in the text, as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92659	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final bill on cableways for the transport of persons, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 717 The proposal for an act has been accepted into the boxes. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links and the Committee on European Integration. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? The word is from a respected colleague, Drazen Breglec, secretary of state. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92660	I thank you, sir, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here is the Law on cableways for the transport of persons, first such an act that appears in the form of regulations at national level. So far, we have, by far, been defined mostly at local level, and that was a big, one big flaw, a legal vacuum can be said so, and this law, which I hope will give us a green light and will be adopted soon, will be brought into line with a directive, a new approach directive 20, 2000/9 of the European Community, of cableways for the transport of people. The Ministry of Transport's jurisdiction over this matter has been allocated to recent amendments to the Law on Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration last year. With this text of the law, this law is partly in line with that Directive while we fully comply with that regulation with further sub-legislative legislation. The law refers to both existing cableways and new cableways that will be subject to reconstruction in the future. Security for the sake of existing cableways and for new cableways as well as through, therefore, existing and new cableways through annual expert technical checks that will be defined by a sublegal act will establish minimum safety requirements for the operation of cableways, however, it will be done in such a way as to ensure minimum safety on the one hand, and on the other hand that there will be no severe interruption of the work of existing installations. In the Republic of Croatia right now, we have about 10 thousand meters of cableways of everything and their average age is measured in decades so that this matter will certainly be an important newspaper for all those involved in this business and this activity. In the end, it is only short that this Law regulates, in addition to the structure of the wire area, the regulation of the acquisition of the right of construction and management, the security aspects of work, the approval of, the administrative framework for the implementation of the provisions laid down in these laws. They are formed within two ministries of two new bodies. Within the Ministry of Transport, an investigative body is established. And within the Ministry, so-called the notified body which is too concentrated on the compliance of the norms and on compliance with European plant directives and the elements of the installation to be installed. Here's so much in this introductory explanation. For further questions, we are at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92661	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. Does anyone want to come forward for a discussion on the proposal for a law on cableways for the transport of persons? Oh, no? Thank you very much. We're closing the debate and we're going to vote on this law as usual.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92662	Final proposal of the Law on cableways for the transport of persons, emergency procedure. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. Secretary of State Drazen Breglec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92663	Amendments 1 to 35. The Committee for the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92664	The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92665	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92666	Thank you. They become an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 97 votes in favour and one abstention and 6 against the passed Law, the government proposed it along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92667	Now, we're going to skip the point of the Final Proposal of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction because the working bodies were called up for the morning around that law, and then point 17. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media will also be skipped because working bodies have also been convened on the subject. And we're going to point 18. - Final proposal of the Law on Audiovisual Activities, second reading of P.Z. No. 656 You have received the proposal for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. It's the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the law? Yeah. The word has a state secretary, Dr. Jadran Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92668	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, the final proposal of the Law on Audiovisual Activities is for the first time a law that will regulate a complex part of audiovisual activities, and I would like to point out that the largest part of the proposals that you have made in the first reading for the improvement of this law has been respected in particular by the parts which were aimed at improving the composition of the Croatian Audiovisual Council with representatives of high schools in the field of audiovisual activities, representatives of Croatian cinematheques, Croatian Film Union, to strengthen itself precisely with all entities participating in the creation of audiovisual activities. We have also taken note of the observations and proposals to improve the provisions on the allocation of funds and the way in which budget and outside budgetary sources are included, in particular those of the economic activities carried out by this activity, using audiovisual works. Of course, these are like the first public television and commercial television, and then systems like fixed and mobile telecommunications networks where we already have a situation today to distribute a part of audiovisual creation. In a way, the law used good practice in Europe, not only in national cinemas, but also in the framework of international bodies that promote audiovisual creation, such as... That's it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're standing by for your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92669	Thank you very much, dear fellow Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92670	My colleagues and colleagues, very short. At its 36th session, the Committee considered the Final Proposal of the Law on Audiovisual Activities as a home working body. Representatives presented the reasons why both part of the proposal and the objection were accepted. Part of the proposal and the observations made on the occasion of the first reading. In particular, they referred to the proposals submitted by the Croatian Association of Film Workers to the Ministry of Culture and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The participants of the debate accepted explanations, and according to which the observations and proposals incorporated into the final draft of the law represent a good European practice in the field of audiovisual activities, and also means stronger representation of the representatives of the profession in the administrative bodies of the system proposed by this law in relation to the original proposal. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously concluded. The Committee proposes that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Law on Audiovisual Activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92671	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. No one's picking up. So, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the law as usual.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92672	Final proposal of the Law on Audiovisual Activities. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary Zoran Antolovic. Here you go. Jadran!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92673	The first amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92674	First amendment to what?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92675	The first amendment of the Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92676	It becomes an integral part of the law. The other one?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92677	2. The amendment is accepted in part with the fact that instead of words being replaced by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is written by the Ministry of Culture in the proper generation and fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92678	It's consensual.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92679	Okay. Changed... Consent. [[You don't understand.]] 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92680	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92681	It becomes an integral part of the law. 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92682	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92683	It's an integral part. 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92684	The amendment cannot be accepted because Article 36 provides for a minimum level of pooling of funds and should allow for the possibility of investing larger funds under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92685	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92686	Retracted. Six.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92687	The 6th amendment cannot be accepted either because it is related to the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92688	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92689	Retracted. Seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92690	Seven is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92691	It's becoming an integral part. 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92692	The 8th amendment cannot be accepted because the centre will be established immediately after the law enters into force and the cases of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92693	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92694	Retracted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92695	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92696	Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please vote. The result? With 91 votes for, 7 abstentions, the proposed law in the text proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92697	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Museums of Ivan Meštrovic, second reading of P.Z. No. 629 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Does the Proposer want it? Yeah. The word has the secretary of state, Mr. Jadranko Antolovic. Here you go, Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92698	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The final proposal of the Law on Museums of Ivan Meštrovic, the Republic of Croatia not only fulfils the full contract, the obligation of the Donor Treaty of '52. and set up museums according to the will of Ivan Meštrovic but also enables this institution to fit into the museum system and that all the rules for the museum profession be applied to this foundation. This does not mean that it has not been applied so far, but now it becomes a status fact and I must say that, in this text of the final proposal of the law, we have respected the remarks that you have made and suggested in the first reading except one, which is around the headquarters of the museum itself. So, we propose that it be no longer in Zagreb, but in Split for the reasons that there is also a larger fund, as well as a large part of the staff of the institution itself. I would also like to say that we fully accept amendments to the Committee on Legislatives aimed at improving the nomo-technical text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92699	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The word has the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go, Mr. Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92700	My colleagues and colleagues. I'll also cut it short. At its 36th session, the Committee discussed this Final Bill on the Museums of Ivan Meštrovic. The law on the museums of Ivan Meštrovic should continue to be in the function of fulfilling the obligations of the Republic of Croatia under the 1952 gift agreement. The proposal of the Law on Museums of Ivan Meštrovic was accepted in the Croatian Parliament in its first reading on 30 March of this year. Many of the comments and proposals that were then considered were included in the final draft law. The Committee's proposal that the name of the institution should be changed to a museum, unique since one legal person is not accepted for reasons related to the gift contract where it is determined that the donated works must be a separate, indivisible part of the donor's work with their separate foundations Zagreb and Split. The proposal presented in the parliamentary debate that the museum headquarters should not be moved from Zagreb to Split is not accepted, since three times more art is accepted at the Split museum sites than in Zagreb. The Committee agreed to this because it also contributes to the dispersion of the management of cultural institutions throughout Croatia. Comments regarding the relationship of the institution with the successors of Ivan Meštrovic, and the copyright of heirs who are unquestionable are not subject to this law, although according to the discussion of the Committee's session, the use of the fund may continue to be burdened, and it is, issues of relations between several heirs and copyright holders. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously concluded. The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the Museums of Ivan Meštrovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92701	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. A esteemed colleague named Slaven Letica called and lost his right to speak on the subject. We don't have any more charges to discuss. Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this bill. We will also vote normally when conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92702	Final proposal of the Law on Museums of Ivan Meštrovic. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Amendment accepted. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please vote. The result? With 90 votes for and 3 abstentions passed by the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92703	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Defence Act, second reading of P.Z. No. 657 The proposal for an act has been accepted into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Immigration. The proposer's representative will be here any minute. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any reports to discuss this issue. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the law when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92704	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Defence Act. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee shall be accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 90 votes in favour, 4 abstentions were passed the proposed law in the text as proposed by the government along with the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92705	Thank you very much, dear colleague Markov, for the suggestion. Moving to point 21. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces, second reading of the P.Z. No. 659 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any charges to discuss. Anybody want to sign up? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the law when the conditions are met as usual.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-07-04-0.u92706	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee shall be accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 89 votes in favour, nine abstentions passed by the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. I welcome the Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader and present ministers, Deputy Prime Minister. We are going to discuss - - Proposal for amendments and additions of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007 with accompanying documents was submitted by the Government. Dear MPs and MPs, I would like to warn you of Article 31(2) and (3). The budget law under which amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amount set out in the proposal may be adopted provided that both other expenditure and revenue and revenue and expenditure are proposed at the same time proposed and the expenditure must not be from the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. In this respect, I warn that only those amendments drawn up in accordance with the said Article of the Budget Act will be referred to in the parliamentary procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Mr. President.
