ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u94676	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Vladimir Seks, ladies and gentlemen representatives of the Croatian Parliament, Excellency, ladies and gentlemen! It is an exceptional pleasure to address you today at the Croatian Parliament. For you and my pleasure, I will continue in German. [[Applause.]] With great joy today as President of the European Parliament, I am taking the floor before Parliament of the candidate country and of the European Union's narrow partner. I have already had the opportunity to visit your beautiful country several times, but for the first time now I enter the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament. Your Parliament has a history that goes back a long way. The Parliament, as I was told, is among the oldest Parliaments in Europe, along with the primal Alting and the Sicilian Assembly, and has given its consent for nine hundred twenty-five years to take over the throne of the first Croatian King Tomislav. With this long history, however, it is most impressive that Croatia has developed a fully parliamentary democratic institution in the shortest time in history and not least in terms of constitutional representation of national minorities within this framework, a model for the whole region. Your High House is a sign of a successful path to modern democracy, a road your country has come to in recent years. The June 2003 Thessaloniki Declaration stressed the future of Southeast European countries in the European Union. Even from the European Parliament's point of view, there is no doubt that Croatia should quickly get its place in this European family. Croatia is an indivisible part of Europe. We are connected with a common history, a common European spiritual structure, a common Jewish, Christian heritage. Saint Jerome, protector of Dalmatia, left us with the first Latin version of the Old Testament translated from the Hebrew "Vulgate". Constantine the Great, who received baptism as the first Roman emperor, came from Illyria. And over the centuries, Roman law, humanism, renaissance all the way to the membership of Austria-Hungarianism have essentially shaped the culture and history of Croatia. The disaster of the two World Wars and the consequences of Southeast Europe as well as the end of the war in the former Yugoslavia has led to the fact that Croatia, which has always been at the heart of Europe, can find its own understandable place in the European process of unification only with delay. So let me point out to you, before the representatives of the citizens and citizens of Croatia. The fate of Croatia and the European Union is closely linked. Our future in Europe belongs to us together. Together we have a chance to correct mistakes and failures of history. We work together to achieve this common goal. Four years ago, February 2003. Croatia submitted its application for membership in the European Union. With the agreement of the Presidents of the Government and of the European Union to open accession negotiations in October 2005, the first concrete phase of the review of the common gain began. Twelve chapters have already been opened today after two years, and additional chapters are to be opened under the Portuguese session. When I was in '79, it might sound unusual to you, but that's true, when I was in '79. I did not dare to dream that I would speak to representatives of the European Parliament in the first direct elections on 28 September 2007 who were elected in the free and democratic elections, in a country that prepares to join the European Union. And let me, by reason and by heart, say, to me that one of the wonders of our generation that we can live together today in a free, democratic Europe. And let's look forward to it all the time from the heart. My colleagues and colleagues! You can be proud that, after the return of democracy, democracy could be achieved for people in Croatia. . /. When he was 50 years ago in the western part of our then divided continent. At the beginning of a small number of European states opted for the path of unification through economic co-operation, Croatia was part of the former Yugoslavia. It's only 1990. Croatia gained independence, followed by that war with all its dramatic consequences. Today, however, Croatia is on track to meet all accession obligations by the end of this decade. Accession, however, means that whoever seeks access accepts all the rules and adheres to all the common principles of the European Union. It's not always simple. The rest of the journey ahead of you may be linked to difficulties and not always to easy decisions. Mr. President, you have informed me that this afternoon, at 3:00 p.m., you will pass twenty laws preparing the way for membership in the European Union. So I think it is a very happy circumstance that the visit of the President of the European Parliament and the adoption of those twenty laws coincided here today on 28 September 2007. As President of the European Parliament who has closely followed your accession process, I can say that your government has been proactively committed to almost joining the European Union. The reform programmes needed to meet the Copenhagen criteria are already accepted and implemented. And you, as MPs in the Assembly, are increasingly engaged in laws that are the basis of the European Union. Together, you MPs make a strong team for European unification. Together as Parliament, government and population, I would like to encourage you to continue this process and that what is written in the laws and applied in reality. Together you will and we will be successful, I am convinced. You know that under the European Treaty the European Parliament must give its consent to any accession of a new Member State. In the past, we have always strongly advocated the enlargement of the European Union, which we will continue to do. Croatia can rely on our determination and support. I sincerely hope that the European Parliament will give consent to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union even during my term of office, so before the elections for the European Parliament in June 2009. In order to meet that goal, however, we need to focus on a number of issues in particular. The European Parliament is pleased to see rapid progress in the adoption of important legal regulations, for example in important areas of justice, public administration and the fight against corruption. The application of the justice reform strategy will modernise the judiciary and make it more effective. The delay in cases was reduced before this summer further measures were taken to streamline the courts. We mustn't be afraid of sequential measures. This is not only true for you, this is also true for the current Member States of the European Union. And I want to prevent any impression that we in the European Union think that we are the only ones who know which direction to move. And we have assignments to do. The Commission, for example, monitors the budgets of the European Union countries that are in the euro area and if a member has too many debts regardless of whether it is a small or large country, then that state is reminded. Even as a member of the European Union, you must respect the law of the European Union and it must be treated accordingly. So these are remarks that are not only directed at you but also at us, which are already members of the European Union today. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so far important steps must continue and be implemented to meet the objective of an independent, transparent and effective judiciary and thus strengthen the rule of law. You know better than I do and I grew up in democracy, in the rule of law. I was born in September 1945 a few months after the end of the world war. And if you'll excuse me, I would add that my father died the last days of the war in late March, in early April. A few months later, I was working, I never saw my father. It is the foundation of our engagement for Europe, for peace in Europe. I was lucky to grow up in democracy, in the rule of law, and democracy is not possible without a rule of law. Everyone must be able to turn to the court if they feel that they have been treated unfairly. And that is why the rule of law is so important for the order of our values in the European Union for all of us. At the same time, your government finds it unusually important to end political influence in public administration. The Law on Public Administration has been an important step towards administrative reform and I want to encourage you to deal vigorously with the application of this law. It is in your and in the interests of the European Union that Croatia develops a public administration that is in line with the obligation to answer and that the administration is transparent and independent. Progress in this area, for example, through education, will contribute to Croatia's support in curbing corruption "the forms of the public's privateist girls", taking care of the common good rather than private matters. That's what it says above the hall door at the prince's court in Dubrovnik. Corruption cannot be tolerated either here or in the European Union and exists in the current European Union. I don't want to get the impression that corruption only has here. So corruption must not be accepted. Responsibility in political action, transparency, accountability to rules and respect for ethical fundamental principles are an integral part of the order appropriate to the rule of law and democracy. I therefore welcome, on behalf of the European Parliament, the intensive fight against corruption. The legal framework for curbing corruption is positive. Last July, USKOK's competencies were expanded. They also launched concrete procedures to establish facts in unexplained cases. The investigation process and arrests in connection with the Privatisation Fund are encouraging the country's determination and readiness to face this major challenge. All accession negotiations have their peaks and difficult moments. Successful negotiations are closely linked to the speed of reforms, but much has to be done for this success. Each country is measured by its own progress, not by other criteria. Since I have pointed out that I have been a member of the European Parliament since '79. I know that what is expected of you today is expected of all other accession countries since '79. – for Greece, Spain, Portugal, Sweden, Finland and Austria as well as for the countries 1.1.2004. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Romania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and all who joined. They all have to meet the same obligations. All that has happened in those years as well as the European Union itself is not a purpose itself. Your reforms and criteria of accession to the European Union primarily serve people, citizens and citizens of Croatia and the European Union. They open common chances and a path to the future. I want to encourage you to use the next two years to quickly bring an end to the accession process with success. I know the price for support hasn't always been the same. Europe and the European Union are not always seen as a chance for citizens. This applies to the European Union itself. Therefore, I ask that as representatives, this is our common goal to convey this message to your electoral units if you wish and if you implement the necessary reforms, the European Union will be the door to a better future for Croatia. Accession is a great opportunity for the Croatian economy, a chance for new and safe jobs, greater legal certainty, will boost the economy and foreign investment. Politics must be concerned that the framework conditions are correct for people and the economy. You'll be witnesses and consequences. The Croatian economy is in good condition. Growth is an economical one, and it rests on ambitious reforms and large private investments. Of course, there are other areas where there are difficulties, but the general trend is good. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, may these positive signs encourage you to be generous and as regards the issues of return of returnees and exiles and representing minorities. You have made clear progress regarding the protection of minorities. There is a good framework and visible effort to involve minorities. And who's strong can be generous! The country's strength is shown by how we treat minorities on the basis of patience. As regards the representation of minorities in political bodies, necessary steps have been taken in the framework of the adoption of the Constitutional Law. Eight minority representatives here in the House prove their desire to build a democracy that rests on respecting national and religious diversity and tolerance, and I particularly welcome it. But don't let that be all. Expand this necessary representation beyond the political level to other levels. In fact, attitude toward minorities is also a question of the heart and acceptance of other people with their dignity, and each person has the same dignity. Despite the initiatives to involve minorities from last year, I ask you to continue this decisive integration process and as regards the appropriate representation of the minority in police, public administration and justice, and equal treatment in matters of ownership and economy. And given the return of refugees and exiles, I ask Croatia to be ambitious. The development of the past few years is going in the right direction. Finally, the Sarajevo process has led to dynamics so that the most sensitive social issues can be resolved. It is not easy to build an accommodation program in a short time. The European Parliament, however, is convinced that solid offers for accommodation and employment would create perspectives and encouragement to return. At a point in the area that is important for Croatia and other countries of the region, I would like to express on behalf of the European Parliament the full and determined cooperation of your government and your country with the International Criminal Tribunal for Crimes in the former Yugoslavia and I would like to give recognition for this cooperation. I'm seriously saying that we of the International Criminal Court expect all the culprits to get a fair sentence. Generally, there are positive developments in respect of fundamental human rights. Only last week's delegation of the European Parliament's Human Rights Subcommittee visited Croatia to convince itself of the situation on the spot. My colleagues gave me a very positive fit back which I gladly confirm here. We can also welcome this more to the fact that there is currently a legal framework that works, as well as adequate support for civil society organisations. They also play an important role in strengthening, respecting the rights of minorities and human rights and democratic freedoms. The diversity of European traditions is our wealth. This is exactly the kind of diversity we have to respect and encourage. It is not possible to ignore events, events that took place over the past decade in this region. As Northern Ireland managed to overcome a period that lasted long and that was very difficult for Ireland. Croatia has also taken steps to encourage them. It is essential that we keep awake in relation to nationalism that could wake up again, and based on these experiences from the past everywhere in Europe, we must learn to live by mutual respect and tolerance. It can't happen overnight, it takes time, it takes years, maybe even a whole generation. But if there is a decisive political will, it is possible. To the European Union, dear colleagues and colleagues, this year we mark the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Rome, the Treaty establishing our common Europe. We have come to this present state of affairs because after centuries of war, we have chosen a path in which the right represents power, not vice versa. We have managed to come to reconciliation, to establish mutual respect and to take a common path towards a future based on cooperation. We're proud of those achievements. But that still means we're at the end of our journey. Not only you, but we in the European Union must do our homework. The European Union does not function ideally in a number of issues. She's not transparent or democratic enough. Contracting Parties do not constitute an appropriate basis for the future. And that is why the European Union is also in need of reform, in order for the Union to be more effective and more forward-looking in the future, and in order to be able to serve the benefit of all citizens of the European Union. And at this point, we already have 500 million, almost 500 million citizens living in the European Union. Only if the decision-making processes are simplified if the efficiency of our institutions is increased and efficiency is increased, especially in relation to external-political measures, will it be possible to ensure that this flight that exists in the European unification project is not lost. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the strong European Union represents something that is of our common interest. It is a vision we should share, because you are part of this common European project, our common European future. We want to implement the reforms successfully, because this will also allow Croatia to join the European Union. Together with Croatia and its 4 and a half million inhabitants, who will soon become citizens of the European Union together with them, we want to shape our common future. Like Croatia and the European Union, it is at a crossroads. The contract reform is entering a crucial phase and the reformed contracts still need to be ratified by all Member States. Croatia rightly monitors the process with great care. And I hope that at a summit held on October 18th and 19th in Lisbon, it will be possible to establish political agreement on the reformed treaty. And in that sense, I am asking for your support. If we compare Croatia with other Southeast European countries, we must say that Croatia has moved far from those countries in terms of accession. This is not only a significant success but it brings with it the responsibility of that obligation. As the leader of Croatia, the country has an important role to play in Southeast Europe. Over the past years, the European Union has been very much in favour of stability in Southeast Europe. But today it is also the task of Croatia. With all our strength, to establish stability in the region and to take up the European perspective of countries, neighbouring countries, to give Southeast Europe a legitimate place in the common European Union, and to make countries in the region where the peace government, which are successful and which are reliable partners at international level. In terms of cooperation, much has been achieved. The reform of the Stability Pact in the Regional Co-operation Council took place right here in Zagreb in May this year. And I was very glad that I could attend that conference myself. In fact, good relations with neighbouring countries are crucial to the stability of the region. And I therefore want to encourage you in your efforts to try to find a solution that rests on international law in further open issues in the region. In fact, we are both the legal community and the power of international law and international cooperation is of priority to us. Southeast Europe embodys the very diversity that is present in the European Union on a daily basis, which it can see in the European Union. It refers to our great cultural heritage, to the diversity of our languages and religions, but in the European context it can also be a good example for intercultural and interreligious dialogue. Your Parliament and parliaments in this region can contribute to promoting values such as democracy, freedom, rule of law and solidarity across borders for the common good. Ladies and gentlemen, Croatia has always been a part of Europe. You're part of the European family. In front of you is the last part of the road towards joining the European Union. Croatia is on a good path in terms of full fulfilment of Copenhagen criteria. You still have some challenges ahead of you. We must never forget our dear colleagues and colleagues, and I say seriously that what connects us in Europe, which is indeed something that is unique in the world, and that is something of our own strength in a political sense, we must defend, that is precisely the values for which we represent, that is human dignity, that is both the responsibility of man for ourselves and for the community, democracy, the rule of law, the democratic order, the social market economy, solidarity and subsidiarity. These are our values that perhaps no one in the world defends as much as we on our continent, we in the European Union that you will soon join as we all hope. Renowned Croatian poet and politician Ivan Mažuranic said in his speech to the Parliament in December 1886: "I believe in Croatia, its past, its present and its future.". In this sense, I also believe in Croatia, Croatia's future in our common European family. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95161	We are now moving to discuss - Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, Third Reading, P.Z. No. 525. The promoter is the Government, the debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. State Secretary of the Central State Administration Antun Palaric will further explain the proposal, please welcome state secretaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95162	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Government is determined to introduce a direct choice of mayors, municipal mayors and mayors in the local self-government system because it is the fulfillment of one of the pre-election promises, and we believe that such a system will restore citizens' confidence in the country's political system and further interest them in participating in the elections and achieving the right guaranteed by the Constitution, which is to exercise power over the choice of their representatives. The election law awaits the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government, which would regulate mutual relations, the Law has been discussed so far in two readings, and I would not repeat what we have already discussed on two occasions, but I will only point out that by preparing the Third Reading Act we have applied to the greatest extent possible objections from the second reading, so the biggest dispute was on which most would have been decided in the referendum, so we agreed that the resolution of mayors led by Croatian voters living in the area of certain local self-government should be decided in accordance with the Law on the referendum and other forms of citizens on the exercise of state authority and local self-government. The second issue was the issue of electing deputy mayors from the ranks of national minorities in those areas where the statute guaranteed the deputy mayor to be a member of the national minority in order to implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. We therefore propose that if the election when the mayor is elected and his deputy deputy is not secured, the deputy mayor of the minority office is not elected where the statute provides for the additional elections in which only members of the minority would choose and therefore choose the one who will represent himself in the executive government at the level of local self-government. We believe that this Law is now in line and that it is acceptable for a vast majority of MPs, we have indeed given it in time, discussed it thoroughly and we propose to bring it into force in this assembly so that the Parliament clearly defines the will to change the system of local self-government, so that, in the period until the application begins, until 17 May 2009 until the day of the direct elections are held, all other laws governing local self-government can be harmonised to make clear what is within the legal jurisdiction of the representative body and what falls within the legal jurisdiction of the executive body, so that the mayor and his deputy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95163	Thank you. The Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Constitution of the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, President of the Committee, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95164	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 90th session held on 26 September 2007 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 13 September 2007. The Committee discussed the Law on the basis of its competence under Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body. In the debate on the text of the final draft law, the Committee made comments on the need to specify the provision of Article 8 concerning the concept of "significant material damage" and the number of voters who may propose the opening of a referendum on the matter of resolution of the municipal head, mayor or mayor and their deputy in accordance with constitutional provisions, and the provision of Article 9 in order to ensure the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. After the debate, the committee unanimously proposed by 7 votes to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95165	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, the respected representative of Krono Peronja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95166	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will propose, it will fully accept this Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, and, as shown only in the material, the advantage of this Law is in the third reading which analyzes all previous observations, suggestions, suggestions and suggestions, and I believe that this Law on Local and Regional Self-Government is a fundamental law, which is a system of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. It lays down the powers of the competent authorities of local units, their relations, responsibilities, the introduction of a system of direct selection of the municipal chief, mayor and mayor and their deputies have created a radical change in the system of local, regional self-government, which does not only affect the choice of the exercise holder but also their rights, obligations and responsibilities. The direct election of the mayors, mayors and mayors put people in the first place who are recognizable in their environments, who carry out the tasks set, projects and who promise in the elections and confirm in their work. Of course, I would point out what is very important to me and what is important in this proposal, the way in which the choice is conducted, i.e. how and how the term of office ends for the mayor, the mayor and the mayor and the mayor and the mayor as well as for the law in the first order of law, and the possibility of resolution which has very precise and clearly worked out the mechanism, which means that if the mayors, mayors or mayors violate or do not execute the decisions of the representative body when the unit of local, i.e. regional self-government causes significant material damages are precisely specified amounts, the percentages so that in the application of the law can be applied in one simple way and fully understood for all citizens and achieved. Namely, this form of local and regional self-government strengthens the direct responsibility of all elected ones, but also seeks to create a relationship for all citizens to depend on them and their decisions to develop their own municipality, city or county. Of course, that instrument, which is actually most important, seems even more democratic to me, is that here in this case when the mayor, mayor or mayor is resolved to apply the provisions of the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local and regional self-government, a very precise, very clear, and institute that is otherwise accepted in all more democratic countries. I believe that this will be another contribution in order to truly create the right system throughout the local and regional self-government because when looking back, it is indeed seen that in June 2006 an amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government was proposed, that in October 2006, a conclusion was reached that the proposal was accepted, but all observations were covered and submitted to the Proposer so that this Final Proposal of the Law could indeed be accepted at the highest level of consensus. Also in May 2007 a conclusion was made to the third reading. I reiterate this because this confirms the seriousness of the promoter, the seriousness and the parliamentary representatives to actually do what is best in this important subject. I also highlight the protection of elections and national minorities, the right to a proportionate representation in the representative body, later by installing the statutes so that it can be prescribed that the deputy municipal chief, mayor or mayor must be of the ranks of national minorities. Another institute that has really been developed to the smallest detail, which can indeed be a model and model for other quotes of the most developed parts of Europe. For these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support and accept this Act, the Final Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95167	Thank you. HNS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95168	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. The reason why we are changing and we need to amend the existing Law on Local and Regional Self-Government is because we want to adopt and after many years of outwitting the Law on the Direct Selection of Mayors, Mayors and Mayors. We in the Croatian People's Party are particularly pleased that we will finally have a clear vote on this Bill proposal, and we ended the debate about it a year ago if I am not mistaken, so many have already forgotten what it says, and then we agreed to postpone its adoption until we get this Law to carefully examine the most difficult part of the work of regulation, and this is the relationship between the representative body and the directly elected mayor, mayor and municipal chief. The Croatian People's Party with such an idea and a proposal came to the Croatian Parliament for the first time in 2001. So we repeated this proposal in 2003, including 2004, 2005. And so finally in 2007, one such idea of approaching or giving even greater authority to voters in Croatia to choose their leaders by direct elections will obviously be accepted. And probably the views, suggestions and suggestions that came from European institutions as well as other parties that co-operate with Croatian political parties also contributed to the ruling majority's acceptance of such an idea. We have this law in our third reading, which means that there was not enough satisfaction in two readings with the content offered. And I expected that three of the most difficult problems in the bill would finally be corrected by the third reading. Two are, the third is not, so allow me colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State to warn you again. This time we will not make amendments to this bill. We will not give amendments simply because it really does not benefit, but allow me to warn again for the last time if it will not be accepted this time just means that the new assembly of Parliament will have to intervene again in this law. Article 8 of the amendments and additions relate to the addition of new articles to the law, which discusses the termination of the mandate of the directly elected mayor, mayor and mayor. And now be careful what solution the Proposer is offering us right now. The Article shall begin with the following provision. The municipal chief, mayor or mayor and their deputy mandate ceases by law. And now there are conditions or circumstances when the term of office ceases by law. On the day of his resignation, the day of the court's decision to confiscate his business capacity, the day of the power of judgment sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than one month. It was six months ago, and we welcome this cutback and that's good. On the day of the power of judgment which he was convicted of committing a criminal offence against the freedom and rights of man and of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and of the values protected by international law. On the day of the check-out of residences from the area of the unit, the day of termination of citizenship and death. And that's good. However, paragraph 3 reads this: "If the suspension of the mayor's office, the mayor, or mayor, took place in the calendar year in which regular elections are held, no extraordinary elections will be called." It's logical to avoid having two choices in one calendar year. But where's the difference? At the beginning of the article he says to the mayor, the mayor, the mayor and their deputy... and here he says only to the mayor, the mayor and the mayor. Does this provision mean that if the term of office of the mayor under the circumstances mentioned in this article ceases in the election year to be replaced by his deputy until the election? Or not? Is he being replaced by his deputy or not? The beginning of the article refers to both the mayor and the deputy mayor, and paragraph 3 speaks only about the mayor, the mayor and the mayor of the municipality. ... No, mate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't talk. It also speaks of the final item of this article as saying that the extraordinary elections will not be called if the term of office ceases. And that's my next question. If they go to the election in pairs, then the citizens will choose the mayor and his deputy. And it stops the deputy's term a month after the election. A man dies. Don't let God die. Or God forbid they arrest him and lock him up. So there will be no additional elections in the first month of the term of office. It's just the mayor. Without your deputy. That's what it says here. But now I'm wondering again. Does the deputy elected or not replace the mayor, mayor and mayor of the municipality's term of office in the election year? There are no provisions clear in this law. Should this be clarified and written, in the event of the end of the term of office one, two, three, four to regular elections in the election year, the town's mayor, mayor and mayor assume his deputy. Or the government will appoint a commissioner. Comrade Peronj, you spoke at the pay phone for a while. You didn't say anything about that. Be patient that I finish, please. So that's the first provision that's...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95169	Don't forget that he has a chairman who holds a session. And this isn't a debate like this, it's about some... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95170	Mr. President! It was not in my mind to relieve you of the duties of President-in-Office of the Parliament or to take over your leadership.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95171	It's directed... For everyone's sake and for everyone's sake.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95172	That's right, Mr. President. So this is the first dilemma and incomplete legal provisions that the proposer still has to supplement. I remind you when the problem is solved, too, that the open problem remains the possibility of ending the deputy month's term, two after the election. We only have a mayor without a deputy. Is that the best solution or not, the provisions are completely unclear? Article 40b, which would be added to the law, finally adopted by the Proposer. The impeachment of the directly elected leader shall be subject to the referendum law. We kept saying that the only way, the only possible solution, is that the voter's decision-making issue must be in accordance with the referendum law. However, a key provision that was once left out is now for us. If an initiative for a referendum to which voters decide whether to relocate the mayor or not to submit a representative body, it was provided if voters in the referendum do not allow mayors, so they support him to disband the county assembly. Because there has obviously been a situation and the reason why more relations between the directly elected leader and the representative body have come to the point that they can no longer function together. And that's why they started the recall procedure. The citizens at the referendum said no, we trust the mayor, we trust the mayor, we trust the mayor and we support him. We had a solution that was so logical that the representative body had to leave. There is no provision here, which means that the representative body remains as it has been. What does that mean in practice? The more the decision to initiate calls off the representative body, the more it makes the majority of the votes of all members, not the two-thirds majority, but the majority, so 50%+1. At the moment when this initiative appears and most of the vote of no confidence, it is actually an invitation for the resignation, because if the mayor gets, mayor or trust officer in the referendum, his salvation is gone because the representative body has most of the votes sent him, we will no longer vote, and you will not be able to function, nor will we vote on your budget, nor will we vote any proposal for an act that you bring to us, and you will have to resign. Which is why now we're giving up the provision, that the representative body that wanted to replace someone and the citizens said no, must then leave. Another situation is when the referendum is initiated and sought by voters. So such a provision... that, at the time most 50+1, the representative body only initiates the proceedings, that the crisis is a government that will only be resolved by extraordinary elections. [[You don't understand.]] It's a message from Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor, sir, none of your decisions here will go through no matter how much the referendum ends. And then we'll have a referendum, the citizens will support the leader, they'll keep boycotting him, we'll have extraordinary elections. It's a cheaper variant, and it'll all take a year to resolve the enigma we've created. I therefore appeal to the motion that that provision, in the event that the voter in the referendum does not accept the impeachment to disband the representative body, return it to the draft law in order to make a better solution. And the last dilemma, Article 25, is a newspaper in the text that was not in the first and second reading and it is good that it was finally introduced although our proposal and amendment was something different. Namely, a problem was created after the 2009 elections, and it was necessary to resolve the rules under which the constitutive session was held. Because this law can enter into force at the earliest of 17 May 2009, so on the day of the elections, and the establishment of a representative body is done according to their statutes and rules of procedure. The law provides that the harmonisation of statutes and Rules of Procedure should take place no later than 90 days after the entry into force of this law, so 90 days from 17 May 2009. The proposer cut the Gordian knot of the constitution in a way that suggests that all provisions of the statutes that speak of the election and replacement of the mayors, mayors and mayors and these problems are no longer valid on the day of entry into force. What about the rules of procedure and what about the process of constitution? Whoever calls for a constant session, all the way back, and we have a directly elected leader. The solution we offered through the amendments, the promoter did not accept and in this way tries to fix the matter. It's halfway there. I warn that this proposal is not given in order to make it difficult for the applicant to adopt the law but to offer a solution to resolve the issue of the first constitutional session by means of a law that would certainly be avoided, and now remember how many complaints, complaints, disputes at the constitutional sessions in June 2009 because of this vague provision and then the central office will be covered by problems, issues, questions, complaints, complaints, rulings, we will have a situation that the constitutions will last until late autumn 2009 because we do not want to recognise and resolve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95173	Thank you. For the club HSLS, respected representative Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95174	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State. From these last sentences of his colleague Lesar, he actually wants to show that his colleague Palaric is going to be eternal and that in fact a whole series of legal solutions and these proposals are just going to go on to make sure that the state office is still busy and working. But the fact that this, that this story of ours about the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, actually has its own long history and we can be relativistic like this and say it anyway... It's moving, right, that story takes a long time, and they actually noticed very early, a whole series of shortcomings that should be fixed, and I think that these elections and what happened after the last local elections in May 2005, that they really were the point of "and" and that it was high time to try to fix something. [[You don't understand.]] Well then one of those solutions,... was also this direct choice from the mayor, municipal mayor and mayor, and it would be believed that this could in some way restore confidence in the sense of local elections, and on the other hand that it could introduce some principle of political stability at this lowest local political level. [[You don't understand.]] But we wouldn't be who we are if it really didn't start both this and the negative, and the negative thinking that we're witnessing is no wonder that now the thing is happening until the third reading, and now we're actually trying to get rid of this... a circle to resolve this situation that may arise, which is a disagreement between such elected leaders and representative bodies. [[You don't understand.]] And I must admit that since this institution is directly elected mayor, the mayor or chief knows almost the whole world. I think it's actually the most elegant solution to rewrite from some well-stable democratic countries exactly that solution and not actually here to compete and try to show how well we think and say the world is going to fail for exactly the good of these reasons. Is this idea of a referendum that makes sense if you respond to over 50% of the total electoral body, and let's say it's generally known and it's not just our trend, but it's also a world trend for local elections to be about thirty, 35 percent of the electoral bodies. So, in order to be elected to the representative body or as mayor, 30 percent of citizens are sufficient, I think that Split was below 30% in the last election in 2005. In London, it's been going around about twenty, 25% of the citizens of London for years to go to the polls. And I'm saying, probably the situation in Croatia right now is somewhere between 30% and 35%. Then you say that the referendum would be held, the mayor's impeachment is possible, or the mayor and mayor, if more than 50% of the electoral body responds to the referendum. Again, it seems to us that in practice it is actually almost impossible to happen. So, by accepting such a bill, we would actually cement the position of the directly elected mayor and the citizens couldn't change him no matter what. On the other hand, what was actually the goal will not be able to ensure political stability in cities, municipalities and counties. We could, even though we are the mayor's party, we have a large number of your leaders in our party between the inga and the mayors now. In some ways, we could actually say that we will support such a bill that would allow them to be almost irreplaceable but we still feel that it is necessary to be more realistic, to enable citizens to call off the mayor if there are valid and justified reasons. I'm saying, this proposal seems impossible. We therefore consider it necessary to first or to reduce the number of voters needed for the validity of the referendum. Whether it's 33% or some other might think about it, but it seems to me that this percentage suggests an association of cities, it's a kind of mayoral union, in its amendments or accept the proposal that our club made in the second reading, and this proposal consists of the impeachment being carried out by a classic system calling off "recal election" because it reduces the total cost of recalling the referendum and elections would go parallel to the same ballot. That was our proposal, for example, we don't think there were any major objections to one such proposal. Then, the latest amendments to this proposal, which is to delete the provisions on the disbanding of the council in the event of a referendum fall, directly and significantly violates the political stability that we want to establish by direct selection of mayors. According to this new proposal, the city council will normally be able to launch a referendum for the mayor's impeachment, and in the event of the fall of the city council referendum, no responsibility will be given to such a groundless launch of the referendum and the irresponsible waste of money or taxpayers of a particular municipality, city and county necessary for the implementation of the referendum. Therefore, the city council will, just as it has been at every council session, be able to completely calmly blackmail the mayor, the mayor in fact and the mayor, and some times in fact threaten the referendum, and in some ways actually oppose the will of citizens who have chosen such a man, or mayor or mayor. We don't think that's a good solution because it's really to assume that in a large number of cases relationships in the council are going to be such that in fact such a chosen person won't have, it doesn't necessarily have to have a majority in the council and in fact every time and every session will actually open one just impossible, frustrating actually situation that you, for each of your proposals, are also able to get a negative opinion in your own council today. We think it would be a good idea to think about it and I think that we have suggested that in the referendum decision, however, that the minimum number of members of the council is two-thirds, in some way precisely because then and this potential majority that might be against the mayor is a little bit more serious, but it seems to me that two-thirds is quite enough and it's not quite as simple as it is, but it's exactly what they already are, that's what fellows from some other clubs have been saying, and that's why the council should also be able to recall them also if they fail to bear some conjecture and not that it's really every time that a further circus of our representative bodies is actually being said, which unfortunately we had a chance that this existing law has very often generated such situations, so that I say protection democracy and all of what was happening and a lot of these repeated choices, which actually only test out of one, not even one of democracy but actually one of the local state itself. I think the last time colleague Adlesic talked about it, that's exactly what it seems to me that a referendum takes two-thirds of the presidential body to decide. Then, the same thing we're a little worried about at the club, which is this notion of damage. I don't think he's defined or known who's relevant to determining whether a certain decision is harmful or not. So, in the event of proceedings for impeachment of mayors, the State Audit or the Central Bureau of Administration or the Ministry of Finance will determine whether significant material damage has been done and that the very idea of the recall institute would be justified at all. It is not good for the representative body to leave this precisely discretionary right to determine the concept of damage because it would be a representative body and it is today, and you can imagine what would only then be agreed, very often it can be misused for the purpose of daily political needs, so I say it would be very important that this concept of damage be further elaborated or that the idea itself is removed. I don't know, when you were five, six, seven years ago you were happy if you could sell some land I don't know about 15, 20 euros today that same land precisely because something was built there is worth 200 and 300 euros per square metre. Then someone could do it like this with one... In 1993, I don't know that you actually did great material damage and actually forget the context when you made a decision and how it was economically above. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Almost impossible. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're here at home. Then, also here, the same problem is the amount considered to be significant damage. He says one percent of the budget. Normally it is in Zagreb. Here, we'll watch it over there for a while. In Zagreb it is, for example, big money is one percent of the budget. It's big money in Osijek. It's big money in Split. But I don't know, let's say, the Supreme Municipality is one percent, and I think it's 19,000 kuna. This means this said banal procurement of these information aids so that someone could also cost it and probably more than 19,000 kunas so someone could say that the Chief Supreme is because I don't know he spent a certain amount of... the information service work contract could be appropriate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I say, when it's decontextualized like this, then I certainly say that it's always a question of the law of large and small numbers. What I certainly say is one percent for Zagreb or Osijek or another county or city or municipality that has a decent budget may be appropriate. But I'm saying, this way when you go back to absurdity, then things show up to be cartoons and things don't work out. So it might be better if someone made it more clear that the failure to comply with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act or the Office for the supply of goods, works and services. It's actually laws that solve this problem of this damage, so there's no, I mean no, it's not necessary to put these provisions in place. So, all in all, we're afraid until this third reading that these are some important problems that haven't been solved properly again. I'm not into this cruel copying I don't know about other people's laws. But since I am truly saying that this experience of the relationship of the directly elected mayor and the presidential bodies exists in the world and as far as I know, and let's say you know, and each of you had, contacted his colleagues in Germany, Austria, Hungary that it works and that there are no bigger problems. I don't see why we're actually always resting on this negative, we're actually looking at the situation, and the Priors are actually aware that most of us could create problems for the mayor, the mayor or the mayor if it's not from their ranks. I said in a joke that I really voted, that it would be best since we skipped the stage of enlightened absoluteism, so my colleague Vuljanic threw me “and why enlightened” but apparently this concept of Friedrich the Great and so enlightened rulers is not so bad. But I'm saying, how we've done jumps in our development, and nature, and so society doesn't tolerate this big and unnecessary skipover of certain lessons. Obviously, we haven't learned some lessons from history, so maybe I'd say just fine that this, that the motionary adopts these very, very benign remarks that would be the necessary thing, which is that we really join the family of European democratic stable countries, the societies that have solved it. I don't see any reason why Croatia is already, for seven, eight, nine years we've been struggling with some very trivial things and then always thinking negatively, and not positively and obviously everything we do is that local self-government and regional self-government continue to be a source of political instability and no stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95175	Thank you. The SDP club is a respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95176	Mr. President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club, of course, is for the law to regulate and introduce the possibility of directly electing mayors, mayors, mayors and their deputies. However, we have warned, and we must say it this time and present these warnings for all of us. Such a form of choice is a mechanism, a means that creates actually another type of realization of local self-government so-called. Presidential or managerial local self-government depending again on which position the leaders are so elected and in such a situation it is not possible to ignore the fact relating to the representative body and such a selected executive body. The responsibilities between the municipal council, the City Council or the County Assembly and the elected authorities on the one hand and the other must be resolved by the holder of the right to local self-government, which is, in fact, the citizens by which our Constitution guarantees the right to local self-government. We would like to draw attention immediately to the fact that, according to our assessment of this amendment and the addition of the law, not only this package, but this package does not address these issues. Unfortunately, they contain several solutions that are in themselves future conflict points between representative bodies and executive bodies and between them, both on the other hand and third-party citizens. And secondly, we would like to point out that at the same time a small door is introduced in fact by the Institute of Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the Municipality as a hard or firmly elected mayor because they are the holders of executive authorities, and that means that they name all their associates and determine themselves without the city council and everything else. The third thing we would particularly like to draw attention to is that again here on the one hand is the institute of arbitration in favour of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which at some point can make a decision on disbanding, or a pardon not to disband the councils but to appoint commissioners until a new one is elected. But at the same time, it is ignored that the right to local self-government does not belong to the government, but to the citizens, and that the Government should have another function that should be fulfilled in this segment through supervision and through the protection of the legality and constitutionality of the work of local self-government. You see, starting from all of this, we are really in the dilemma of actually voting on this law for the simple reason that there are a few more laws that should be passed that should be opened at all simply for the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors, or their deputies, and on the other hand we are aware that the key part of the problem has remained undefined, unsettled and unsettled. We fear that if the system is set up like this and leaves it to have very many conflict situations and that we will have an unstable system of local self-government in which there will be a constant conflict of interest between the representative body of the executive authority, including within the executive authority itself, because do not forget that it is the holder of the executive government mayor, that his deputy, but the deputy mayor, is chosen by the same procedure only when he is prevented or unable to do so, or when he is empowered. At the same time, or the most common situation will be that citizens will choose from one political option or programming option if it is independent mayoral candidates, and entirely from another deputy. That's why we're afraid that we should actually work on this project a lot more. That's what experience warns about. It is true that there is a direct choice of mayor and mayor in many of Europe's countries. But it is also true that, for example, in Slovenia, you have direct choices of mayors and mayors who have much better arranged relations between the representative body and executive bodies, and still, and still have serious difficulties in functioning among other things because of the different interests represented by representatives of citizens in the Council and elected executives directly through. If all of this is now accompanied by some other solutions from this Law that should be voted upon, which in fact further strengthen the position of the executive authority and the weak position of the representative body of the other party and, on the third hand, open a space for arbitration, i.e. government. Then the question arises whether we should let this law go into practice. The first thing that we would like to draw attention to again, although we have already discussed this law, is about Article 4(4), i.e. the new article 35a, where it is said, members of the representative body may ask the municipal chief, the mayor, and so on, not to mention, the question of the council. First of all, it's not a real thing anymore than a possibility. The second is to remind the right to have a representative body on behalf of the citizens. Thirdly, in this segment, an analogy that is present in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia relating to the Parliament which is explicitly said, in Article 85, paragraph 1: "The representatives of the Croatian Parliament have the right to ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia, individual ministers of parliamentary issues.". You know, when it comes to law, it can't be assessed by the relationship of power, whether conditions will be created for asking questions among other things to open up the possibility of having a current watch in the council or not, and especially when preparing a session, as in fact such an institution will often be abused. The second thing we would like to warn is that it deprives the representative body of the ability to exercise its supervisory role in the work of mayors, mayors, as well as the legality of work or decision-making that violates or does not execute decisions of the representative body, etc., etc., up to the issue of protection of the interests of the citizens themselves at local level. ... is our remark related to the fact that here at once in Article 6 is said: "The executive body of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government in the municipality and municipal chief, in the city of Mayor and Mayor.". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen, the executive body is no longer a head office. And that, but just the mayor, the mayor. Not even his deputy, although chosen in the same way as the mayor, but practically he enters the executive body, and the mayor himself will appoint his associates to do so. Now there are questions about how a representative body can actually control the work of its body and such an executive body. Because in that segment that regulates the position of the council remains an old law, unchanged. There's a question actually what it's for. Our third observation regarding this particular law, other than what we have previously said, is the fact that, for example, you will not call the deputy a new election and choose a deputy if it is in the year in which his term expires while the mayor will. That is, if the deputy mayor, mayor or mayor is suspended, early elections will not be called at all. And if it's the year, then it won't be for the mayor. The question now arises, and how is it not going to be called for him if his term of office has stopped, say, in the first year, for whatever reason, a man has died. Or, God forbid, or I don't know if he's changed residence, not in that unit of local self-government anymore, lost his citizenship, gave up, left, moved from Croatia, etc., etc. And he was directly elected, is that the will of the citizens? What, as the central authority of the ex-lege in that segment, why limit me to the will of the citizens, the holder of the right to local self-government? I don't get it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition to this question of determination or indeterminability, the damage itself is a very serious question. When a proposal for a referendum on the discharge of the municipal chief, the mayor, or mayor and his deputies, is put forward, at least 1/3 of the members of the representative body. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: However, it is said here that voters listed in the list of municipal, city, or county voters have the right to propose a referendum, etc. Now I ask how many voters? 5%, 10%, 100%? If there's a collection noun here: "chooser" then it's obvious it's all of them. No range at all specified. Which is why all voters must give their signature that they want to raise the question of a referendum, namely trust with the municipal chief, to the mayor who will end up in a referendum if the city council decides. And in the city council, it's possible that a lot of only one-third of it can be initiated. So completely, what we were warning you was not well last time solved now tried to solve better but it was done badly. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. is related to the following paragraph. If a decision is taken to resolve the municipal chief, mayor or mayor and his deputy term of office on the matter referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, you shall cease to publish the results of the referendum on the day of publication. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia will appoint the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to carry out the tasks of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor. What right? Why? Is there a legal and legitimately elected representative body chosen by citizens? Why wouldn't the representative body name the commissioner, whether from their ranks, outside their ranks, it doesn't matter? And at the same time why is it not prescribed here that they are due within 60 days to be called and hold new elections for mayor, chief? It doesn't make any sense. What's the government gonna do? If we introduce... and if we come into certain relations in possible conflicts of interest in the trend, and we are entering into reform of local and regional self-government with further decentralisation, deconcentration, deadministration and not listing everything that needs to be done in that segment between central and local and regional relations, tensions can be strengthened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether at this point we are actually creating the possibility that in any tense or crisis situation, the arbitration judge should be the Government, not the local and regional self-government and its citizens' interests. We very seriously warn and feel that this is not good and that this should be resolved in a different way. Second, a few more remarks we'd like to make. Article 9 here states in Article 9 of the new article in fact 41(2) that if the statute and those units of local self-government are established, one of the deputies in the order of national minorities may, of course, live in the area of that unit of local self-government by several representatives of national minorities. Please tell me in these relations when we have all the research that shows that now the statutes of our municipalities and cities and counties are not designed by constitutional law to lay down rules on the rights of members of national minorities, however, it may, as a possibility, prescribe that one of the deputies will have one. Is it our interest to implement the constitutional law or not? Is the Parliament behind that constitutional law or not? If it stands, then it must be written here in the statute to be incorporated, or one must be elected in order, and the statute should work it out. This is quite different and should not be like this, of course it should be determined now in which units of local and regional self-government in accordance with the constitutional law, which most of which, by the percentage of national minorities represented, the issue must be resolved. Also, if they are not selected, the additional elections will be called then it should be asked from an aspect that is very simple. You know whether the situation here is actually going to be a match between the parties, now I ask about this bipolar system that we have chosen, in the election of representatives of national minorities, in the Assembly only representatives of national minorities in the special electoral unit, and in our municipalities and cities and counties are elected councils, so thousands of them, from a list of political parties and independent lists, so as a civil option, a political option that has many advantages and... and if they are not chosen then in the additional elections are... Now, is that how we choose deputies or are we still going to try to secure this question in a different way? We also have an objection to Article 13 concerning this question or/and the item, whether it is a million kuna fee or whether it is 0.5% related to the value of the property or whether it is both. It can be interpreted one way or another. It should be precise, because one is the situation if there is a million kuna in Zagreb, and another is the situation if 0.5% in the Supremes is when someone mentioned it earlier, etc. What does that mean? And if it's 0.5% in the Supremes then it's small, but if it's one million kunas, it's gone. I know it's time, but you're not running a session of colleagues. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President, for letting me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95177	As far as I'm concerned, I'd still be listening to you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95178	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. The election of mayors, mayors, the mayor's future will be direct and that's not bad. That's what the citizens want, that's what they're going to get, personally I regret that the election of MPs is not direct. I am not saying that the current Law on selecting MPs is bad, it was written by an expert group at the helm if I am not mistaken, Mrs. Kasapovic. The law became permanent, according to which the elections were held in 2000, 2003, 2007. However, if the Parliament wants full legitimacy, the elections should be direct. Only then would Parliament come on its own and become one truly representative body. But let's let the Parliament go now. This is a law on local, regional (regional) self-government. I agree that and this legislative proposal is in some way strengthening local self-government. It may have been better than this law that we had in 1993 when one half of the council was elected directly in election units, and one half indirectly, or from the list. However, this model, by my court, is good, the Republic of Croatia has left too soon and we are now introducing the principle that the citizens will, but which can also be produced in their opposite. At national level, a semi-presidential structure that we had, we replaced it as I call it this current semi-parliamentary, and in the local clean, one parliamentary system is replaced by the presidential system. And now for Croats to be cynical, that's not principled. However, the issue of decentralisation on the other hand is not addressed by this type of acrobatics but is primarily resolved by one fiscal decentralisation, by decentralisation of powers, supervision and lack of control of central government over local government, and you will agree with me that whoever has authority at the state level has de facto authority and at local level. What do our mayors, our mayors, our commissioners decide? So they have no authority over the behaviour of the matriarchs while clearly all the real government is concentrated in people who have electoral legitimacy at national level, who sit in the government across from the Croatian Parliament, who decide both in the conduct of state administration and inspection, I don't know the police and that I don't list catastras etc., all other institutions. So here's what's really a political question that didn't have the courage to open this political set. So the question of money available at local level, the powers, in one word, is the definition of local autonomy. The mayor's choice, the mayor's choice, by my court is one second-rate question. The central question is what I was talking about, but once again I'm going to say this bill is supported and understandablely supported by the IDS. Clearly, the advantage will have existing furniture before or at the next local elections. So the one who is in the position of the mayor of Pula, Rijeka or Dubrovnik, Zagreb, will have an important advantage over everyone else, but what we are going to do is respect the will of the citizens. And this law is kind of a confirmation that everything in this country will be reformed, except for the relationship of the central local government, everything will be done but I'm afraid the country will not decentralisation exactly because of what I was talking about. Today, somewhere in the local community, the central government is such that 85% of the money goes to the state budget, 15% if we count here and the City of Zagreb remains local self-government. However, decentralisation will happen when one third of all tax assets are left to local self-government, meaning one third of VAT and one third of the excise duty is higher than that which is drunk, or what has been smoked in one county and one third of the profits, one third of the income tax and one third of the customs duties on that county and one third of the health contributions remain local self-government. Finally, according to the 74th Constitution, local self-government had almost 50% of the collected fiscal capacity of one unit, and this was the most dynamic period of the Republic of Croatia, when the municipalities chose and judges, which was certainly higher and the independence of the judiciary was not good, but it was better than what Pasalic's commission did when they elected both the head of finance, both the cadastra and the head of the national defence and the head of territorial defence and that I did not list everything further. Today, I said just before our chiefs and mayors of our council, whether it is the county, the cities and the municipalities that can't even influence the behaviour of the matriarch. On the other hand, the power that will now concentrate in the hands of the first people of our cities, the municipalities, the county will be great. This power should in some way be directed and monitored, or one word controlled, by the councils should not be marginalised, that is, the essence. The Parliament to be cynical and can, when we've already brought ourselves into this situation against the executive authorities, but the councils cannot be marginalized. What are the council's jobs? The mayor, the mayor, I will not read now but here in this Article 13 is definitely saying that all that is above one million kuna de facto is in charge when it comes to acquiring or alienating real estate or movables in the council's intelligence. Article 9 speaks of the selection of minority mayors, i.e. the representative of minority mayors in our counties and cities, etc., I think this is the solution offered by the IDS Club during the second reading which had the biggest objections now relatively correct, that category of citizens in no way can be marginalised. The question is what everyone has talked about before me and how many times a referendum can be launched in someone's mandate, it should also be regulated far more precisely. I think that Mr Kramarić also correctly noted and apostrophe that the referendum should not take place on a regular basis, meaning qualified by a majority of 50% plus one term, but two-thirds of the majority. You know very well how the mandates in our councils, whether municipal, city, county buys, how these councils are sold, how these councils are traded, how they are sometimes valued for these mandates, for example, was that Osijek famous case, if you vote for us we will give you the opportunity to replace the kidney and not to list everything further. The same is true when it comes to the referendum of these minority representatives who will be in the role of deputy mayors or mayors, mayors, or viceroys in those areas where there are several minority representatives, I think it means the citizens of Croatian nationality. All in all, we will only see how good this is for Croatia, but it is absolutely worth adopting. If the referendum on the other hand does not go through, and it is initiated by the Council then the consequences should also be on the council of any county, city, municipality, it should bear certain consequences and the final consensus should be a disband so that God does not allow these powers to be played unfounded, clearly, if the citizens' initiative is another matter. In one word, when it comes to trust in a referendum there must be no game against anyone, it should be fought for responsibility and not given the right to any policy. Neither the council is allowed to play with the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, nor is the executive authority involved in the mayor, the mayor, to play with the council. The point is, someone pointed it out a little while ago, and the freedom to decide up to that 1 million kuna, it seems to me that it can somehow lead to a blockage of the functioning of local self-government, but once again, it will show its time as to what it will mean. I said IDS Club will vote on this law but I repeat again the best model Croatia has ever known when it comes to selecting representatives of local self-government we had 93 when one half of the mandates were elected directly in election units and one half from the list. For the end, as someone before me asked, why don't we just prescribe such a law on selecting mayors, mayors from Germans, Austrians, Slovenians why we don't prescribe it from the legal gain of those countries where such models exist for centuries. Good Slovenia may not be the best example but they seem to me there in 92 or 93 directly elect their mayors and mayors. I personally fear that in the next 5 years since the election of local leaders 2008 to 2012 or 13th to those subsequent elections, one of these laws will have to be changed 5, maybe 10 times because life will actually determine a whole series of situations that we cannot respond to at this time, unfortunately we cannot predict or simulate them. The essence of this Law is once again a direct choice of mayors, mayors, mayors, however, I sincerely hope that we will get a relatively soon-to-be law that will redefine relations in the powers and availability of existing means because, as the Republic of Croatia today is set up, it is certainly not perspective for the state or for our county or for our cities or for our municipalities. To conclude, understandably, once again I will say for the third time, we will support this Law, the citizens want their representatives directly elected, but I repeat the real issue of this political moment is not how we choose the counties, the mayors and the mayors, but how much resources and powers local self-government will have.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95179	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95180	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Cain incorrectly claimed that the municipalities of the 1980s chose judges and all those he counted, etc. It was the committees, the Communist Alliance committees. My colleague that was clear, it was a totalitarian system in which the committees were the ones who decided on life and death. Kadiya's suing you, cadiya's judging you. What municipalities? What municipalities? You're trying to change history here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95181	HSP representative club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95182	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. For the Croatian Party of Rights club as well as for most Croatian citizens, it is not disputed that we should go to the direct selection of mayors, mayors, mayors and their deputies. It is also not disputed that the legal relationship between directly elected mayors, mayors and mayors on the one hand, the representative body on the other hand and the third-party citizens themselves should be regulated. And normally this should be regulated legally, but when it comes to legal regulation, then all those who have such a system of countries of the European Union of other countries should certainly be used. This is the third reading of this Law, the final proposal, but unfortunately there is still a lot of controversy, there are many concerns because it is not respected, there are no respected proposals that we have made here in both the first and second readings to simulate possible all situations that may arise as such and thus provide for legal solutions as well as how to come out of these controversial situations. Unfortunately you didn't, we gave you the notes, but we got a fake performance, a false composition that should be applied on 17 May 2009. Be assured that, if this final proposal is passed today, the Sixth Assembly will have to amend and supplement if it wants to go to the direct selection of mayors, mayors, mayors and their deputies, because there are still these recommendations. We regret that you did not accept our proposal to allow the testing of these legal provisions in municipalities and cities in which it is already possible, i.e. in which there will be extraordinary elections, so that we have practical solutions, because if we go into something and we do not end up emigrating and if we want to put it into practice on 17 May 2009 and if we leave many things to municipalities, cities and counties to our institutes and general acts offices, and they will not fix it, because they will not fully, and yet they do not solve such things in law, what have we done? We can come to a worse situation, and I say there is plenty of time, there should be a simulation of the application of legal provisions in municipalities and cities where there will possibly be extraordinary elections so that one real experience can be gained on this side as well as how the legal provisions apply, when they apply to the whole country, as well as how they apply. Unfortunately, there is still that part of the major dispute between the directly elected head of the representative body. We have a situation where we have a sheriff today who is the mayor of the municipalities, the mayors who are basically acting and taking on more authority than they will under these legal provisions. How to define all these relationships and cases that he does not owe his environment to be deceived and directly elected, and on the other hand, we have a representative body that as such should be that part of the dam that he does not owe, or that he does not do what he did not get as a direct mandate from the citizens who chose him. On the other hand, the variant will be a normal and probably real variant that the representative body as such will have another composition, meaning another option that may not directly support the elected leader and that it will try in all situations to go to that part to resolve him, to replace him and there are no such provisions here that these rules of conduct, because we know who brings the budget. The budget will be passed by the representative body. He suggests, but he was directly selected in his programme to give what, how and how he is going to do it, but the representative body does not want to, wants to replace it and what in the budget when he brings the budget changes items. Is there anything we can figure out? We haven't solved anything, and these are the most important things. That we do not talk about these other provisions that our colleague Arlović spoke about, and Cain, and Lesar, mean various situations that will happen and repeat in practice. Therefore, what we are discussing today will certainly never be applied as such, for the next assembly of the Parliament, if it is responsible, will have to change that, will have to regulate all these relationships directly. So we're discussing something that I never really believe will ever be in application of this text that we have here. There's no way that's gonna work, 'cause I'm saying there's so much resistance. I've made a few of the biggest demands. My colleagues took the rest out, but there's no valid response. Why didn't you put the whole chapter on establishing new representative bodies after 17. ... In 2009, because we know that municipalities, cities, even today have not brought all their general acts and statutes into line with the legal provisions of the laws adopted in the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what can you do about it? Nothing. We know how the Central State Administration Office works. One time he's done this, another time like that. Then the Administrative Court also once like this, twice like that. In some, if no session is held as foreseen by the law will go to divorce, others will say, that is not it, we will not prevent the development of local self-government. And so I think what we're going to do today, if we bring it in, will never be in use. For this reason, Mr. President, in order not to deal with things that will never be applied, I repeat my request not to seek the word of the Croatian party of law club, that after the scandalous and embarrassing verdict of the Hague court in the trial of war criminals Sljivancanin, Mršić and Radic, whom The Hague tribunal has shown his true face and humiliated the dead Croatian defenders, families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime wartime people from Homeland War, Croatian defenders and the whole of Croatia, we open the debate on Wednesday. Wednesday, so that we do not talk in the Croatian Parliament about topics that no one is interested in
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95183	Comrade Kovačević! Finish the debate...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95184	I'm telling you that again. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95185	Finish the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95186	On Wednesday, let's start discussing... Co-operation... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95187	Thank you very much. I take away my word. Thank you very much. Done.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95188	And suspending further use. You have an obligation as a man.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95189	Done. You know what? Stay in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95190	You're welcome to follow...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95191	Go to your place and stick to your order. Don't threaten me and blackmail me. National Minority Representatives Club... Mr. Kovacevic! Stay in line. Do not create disorder in this House, threaten, blackmail, and violently take the word and speak violently. Here is Representative Furio Radin, Club of National Minorities!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95192	Thank you very much. As regards the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government during the second reading, the National Minority Club had several objections concerning the mayor, members, deputy mayor, members of national minorities. Now reading these suggestions that are here in the third reading, I actually have to come to the conclusion that maybe either we weren't too clear or we didn't understand each other until the end of the second reading. Because I see here some changes have been made and some of our suggestions have been accepted. They concern that if it is not accepted, if the second mayor is not elected, the mayor of the national minority ranks will then go back to the elections where it will be elected by members of the national minorities themselves. And that's okay. It just doesn't seem right in Article 9 second paragraph because it actually spoils more things than it solves. Look. It reads as follows: "In units of local or regional (regional) self-government in which members of national minorities are entitled to a proportionate representation in the representative body of the unit of local and regional self-government and the unit of local and regional self-government may be prescribed that the deputy mayor, mayor or mayor must be of the national minorities." There's actually two being created here, and there's actually new problems. And that, there they are, has two new problems. One is the one, one new problem is, regarding all those mayors in the Istrian municipalities and cities and in the county that are there not because of the proportion of representation, not because there is such a percentage in this Italian case in Istria, but because it is prescribed by the Statute. And in fact, this would result now that only if you have enough percentage can it be prescribed by the Statute. So they'd fall out. Mr. Palaric! We have to, we're going to give, now we're going to write an amendment quickly in which we must valorize what is present today in the Statutes. And in the Statutes we have deputy mayors not because there are many of us but because we have such political agreements in Istria and because we respect our self-esteem and that is why we have them and it is prescribed by the Statute, even if we have a smaller percentage than is prescribed by law. So, in this case, if 70 percent of Italian Deputy Mayors in Istria with next elections actually are accepted, then there will be no more. The other problem that's being created is where you're really right, then you don't have to, but you can. And about this, Mr. Palaric, we've already spoken enough in this House in Constitutional Law. Every time in any law or constitution in Croatia it says "can" this Parliament interprets it as "not necessarily". We've had enough of that, too. It'll either say it's like that or it's not like that. To be that way, it means it's only the will of the majority at a certain point. So that's where we have two problems. We'll give you the amendments now. If these amendments will not be adopted, the national minority club will not vote on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95193	Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95194	Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government! I will try to be as brief as possible in my debate, so I will look only at two or three details. It is not clear what the leader will do and what powers and responsibilities he will have. I think it's far more important than choice and resolution. Furthermore, I find it extremely important. The provisions on this matter have been rejected, on the consequences of the representative body if the referendum fails, which it has previously called. The new Article 40.b says that a representative body can call a referendum among other things and when the head produces considerable material damage, which implies damage of 1% of the budget and 500 000 kuna, respectively. Whether the costs of a failed referendum will be greater than those limits. Isn't that a considerable amount of material damage, and then it goes along with the latest proposal without consequences. In theory, during the term of office, a representative body may call three referendums. So spend in some smaller units almost the entire budget and no one at all. More predecessors have already said, but I think it is important to repeat that this law encourages latent conflict between the representative body and the executive authority at local level, and that means arbitration of the central government, which should never be the case. The law also speaks of the election of another deputy from the ranks of national minorities if this is prescribed by the statute of the unit of local self-government. However, there is no case for the mayor to be a member of the national minority elected in the regular elections, which is theoretically possible. What about the deputy? Whether to choose another deputy from the ranks of national minorities is not defined anywhere. Also, in the same provision or article, there is as a possibility, so the statute of the unit of local self-government may require that the deputy leader be a member of a national minority, but it is not said to be a liability so that he must be a member of a national minority, so, by some logic, to reduce the costs and simplify procedures within the local self-government unit itself, they would be best not to put such provisions in the statutes at all, so they would have no problems with the choice of another deputy. I think the law should serve to unilaterally lay down certain rules for the functioning of society, and so should the unit of local self-government, and not that it says that something can, which means that it doesn't have to or should not give opportunities I won't. In the light of the final proposal in Chapter VI. It speaks of proposals and opinions that are not accepted by reason. I'm stressing this with an explanation. For example, it states that earlier amendments to Article 9 have not been accepted because the new proposed solution is better. It also says that my amendments have not been accepted. All right, all right. But it is not explained in any letter why the proposed solutions are better and the same as why my amendments are not accepted, so not one single letter. It seems to me again that it's one of the connoisseurs' haughtiness, like so many times so far, simply ignoring something, and we're not going to do anything to anyone, why nothing. Also, at the end before I finish a dilemma. I do not understand from this proposal whether the leader and the deputy are going in the package in case the referendum on mistrust succeeds and when they go in the package and in what cases. In fact, I don't think that's too clear. Here, because of all these details I cannot give my vote for this final proposal of the Units Act of Local and Self-Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95195	Thank you. Final review of Deputy Central Office of State Secretary Zdenko Matičić. Nothing. I'm closing the debate. And third, finally third from this series of laws. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. The amendments were submitted by the Croatian National Minority Representatives' Club and the National Minority Representatives' Club. HNS Representatives' Club, Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95197	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95198	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2, also of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95199	We don't accept. For the third reading, we gave up the proposal to disband the representative body in the event of a vote. We will have to get used to cohabitation if there are different options in Croatia and conflicts between the mayors of the directly elected and representative body.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95200	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We voted and finally introduced into this country a direct selection of the mayors of municipalities, mayors and mayors. This is an amendment to the law that enforces it. In the first two readings in the law, it was a provision if the representative body seeks a referendum on the mistrust of its leader, and the citizens in the referendum refuse to change it, that the representative body must be disbanded. In the third reading of that provision, there is no law, and my amendment is to return it. Mr. Secretary of State, by refusing the amendment, you are not introducing the possibility of cohabitation, but the arbitration of the government that will then appoint the commissioner, because the representative body that requested the referendum and failed, will block every leader and will not be able to function. Then you enter the scene on behalf of the government and appoint a commissioner. To prevent that, this amendment requires a release. So, you've made the argument against the amendment wrong. He was actually in favour of this amendment. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95202	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the Club of National Minority Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95203	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-09-28-0.u95204	Amendment accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 88 for, 28 against, 2 abstentions passed by the proposed law. Now we're going to continue the debate on scheduled agenda points. - Final proposal of the Health Protection Quality Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 735 Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, work, social policy, health care, European integration. Emergency procedure. Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubicic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
