ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking for a break for the HSLS club because we're really keeping this argument unacceptable. The government had a phone session yesterday. We've sent the law before. There was plenty of time with the government's good will to discuss this law. We are indeed experiencing this as a avoidance of the debate on the Law that should have raised a high scale for both the future government and the depolitisation of public enterprises. So, please break 10 minutes for the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96304	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96305	Mr. President of the HSS Club is also looking for a 10-minute break. We believe that yesterday was quite neatly announced this topic, this item of the agenda, and that if there were certain reasons they could and should have been removed regarding this item of the agenda. Since this is the last day of the session, I think it is not correct to move this point in this way, which is extremely important, sensitive, and I think absolutely should have been respected what was announced yesterday. I'd like a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96306	Thank you very much. Ten minutes. At 10 and 20. Here's the ladies and gentlemen at the narrow cabinet just before, the government gave the green light to the bill, so we can start with it. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials – Proposers Clubs of Representatives of HSLS and HSS, first reading of P.Z. No. 775 Meanwhile, in a few moments there will come a green light in writing. Representative of the Proposer, Deputy Prime Minister, Honored Representative Đurđa Adlešić on behalf of... What did I say to the Deputy Prime Minister? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're not the Deputy Prime Minister? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I was really convinced that you were the Deputy Prime Minister. Vice President of the House, I was probably looking into the future. So you'll be the first on behalf of the proposer. Here you go, Vice President of the Parliament. It's obvious the end is coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased to see that at the end of this term, we still manage to discuss a point that we are holding really important, which has so far appeared through various examples in public as a serious problem. I will remind myself of a number of privatisation affairs, I will not be picking up those during one or another government because it would be too long, but also political accounts in which the state officials were mostly members of the Supervisory Committees of Victor Lance, Brodosplita, KIM further. So the problem was always the same. I would also like to remind you that we still have the HSS and HSLS clubs in February of this year decided during a parliamentary debate on the confidence of ministers to propose the withdrawal of ministers, state secretaries and representatives from the Supervisory Committees. It is precisely to relieve government officials, but also to leave management to those who have more knowledge, more time and who can be paid for it. So far, the responsibility of supervisory boards and administrations has been often intertwined and few will remember when the Supervisory Board opposed the administration and tried to prevent any possible malfeasance. The function of the supervisory boards is therefore not a symbiosis in malfeasance, nor can supervisory committees be, and it was sometimes suspected that members and sponsors are even employers of different privatisation affairs and this is indeed the first step towards depolitisation of state-owned enterprises. It may indeed be a small step for now, but without that step, there is no more serious shift. We would, by accepting these changes, enter a circle of European Union countries that have well regulated this and taken a step further from Eastern European countries, reduce the policy impact at least formally, separate the business of those operating in the country and those operating in the economic sector. It's better that experts work in the interest of the state. There are simulations that have been working at the Faculty of Economics and Split as much as a state official who is on three to five supervisory boards, and there are fewer, there are more than five or six hours, they have to spend their time preparing for sessions, so this calculation is about one day a week. It is absolutely impossible for a state official to be a minister, a secretary of state or an assistant, one day in a working week to focus solely on the functioning of the supervisory boards. The existing Law on the Obligations and Rights of State Officials, with the definition of a circle of duties considered to be governmental duties, regulations and obligations of civil servants and their rights, so in Article 4(4) of the existing law, it is prescribed that government officials may be members of the boards of directors or supervisory boards of commercial companies, institutions and extra-financial funds in largely state ownership or those in which the state has a majority share or share package of shares. This proposal amends the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials wishes to lay down a legal basis for the withdrawal of all government officials from boards of directors or supervisory boards, companies, institutions, extra-financial funds in largely state ownership or those in which the state has a majority stake, i.e. a share package. This will put an end to the practice of state officials, i.e. members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, sitting on boards of companies, institutions, extra-financial funds, and companies that are mostly state-owned. It is known that these officials were or were in a number of boards of directors or supervisors, and there are data that some officials were even on nine supervisory boards. One reason for this amendment to the law is to prevent a possible conflict of jurisdiction. State officials are normally extremely burdened with regular duties and jobs, and therefore a member who is a member of several other boards of directors or supervisory boards in addition to his post, is not able to perform quality work-related functions, i.e. the company’s business at times. By withdrawing government officials from the boards of directors or supervisory boards of commercial companies, institutions or extra-financial funds and undertakings that are predominantly state-owned, they will depolite the work of boards of directors and supervisory boards. Supervisory duties in trade societies, institutions and extra-financial funds should be carried out by experts including professional civil servants. The requirements for membership in the Management or Supervisory Boards should be expertise, independence, involvement and awareness of personal responsibility. Such an expert in charge of a particular area which is a member of a single supervisory board or of a board of directors will be better placed in charge than a state official who does not have to be in a significant number of cases and is not an expert in the activities carried out by a company, an institution or an extra-account fund in which he is a member of the Supervisory or Management Board. The experience of European countries shows that the tendency to exclude state officials from the boards of directors and supervisory boards of commercial companies in the majority ownership of the state promotes the success of the business of these companies and, at the same time, the protection of state interests in these companies. For example. There has been a practice in the Czech Republic in recent years that ministers are not proposed or appointed as members of the Supervisory Board. Slovakia does not know at all the examples of the appointment of ministers for members of the supervisory board. In the Netherlands, the appointment of any member of the existing government as a member of the supervisory boards in state-owned companies is not known at all. In neighbouring Slovenia, a recent decision has been made that all politicians, or officials, should leave the supervisory boards. The Croatian Association of Managers and Entrepreneurs Crom and the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency have done much to develop a corporate governance code that includes education for members of supervisory boards as one of their fundamental duties. The knowledge of all members who have such education has passed after compulsory education will be verified according to world standards and the certificates they will receive will be evaluated both locally and globally. It was precisely because of a series of lagging behind the European Union in this field of certification of membership in the Croatian People's Committees that it was necessary to start developing this system and intensify it. We fully support this form of education, because its member is in part and what we insist on, and this proposal amends the Law on Rights and Obligations of Officials, which is in the Management and Supervisory Committees of Commercial Companies, Institutions and Extra-Government Funds, which are mostly state-owned or in which the state has a majority share of experts, so as not to repeat the situation for some of the ministers or other state officials to be presidents or members of 6 or 9 of the Supervisory Boards, and also mentions a recordr from recent times that I thought was a member of the 70 Supervisory Boards. 70 supervisory committees in the last term. I'm sorry I couldn't get more specific information. I ask you colleagues and colleagues to really hold that this Law is a significant step in good governance of state property and our budgets, and I want to tell you that before you accept it, it was already accepted by the professional public because, after the first initiative of HSS and HSLS clubs in February, the professional public colleges of Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek started with this kind of education, which means that they recognized the necessity of a specific kind of education and quality management of state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96309	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96310	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. What happened now at the beginning, now at 10 o'clock that at that phone session or the Uzha cabinet decided that this law goes into reading what I absolutely welcome, is at least a scandal and it says how much executive power does this House hold. Secondly, I would like to say that none of us IDS representatives are on any supervisory committee, neither was I personally during the term of office of Mr Tomcic, Pavletić, etc. Now, I'm going to say a little differently, although in principle I support the spirit of this law, because it's wrong for one who thinks that some who don't have the status of officials, let's say that public interest will protect them better than the official himself. To me, this practice was mentioned by a Slovenian vice president. They have recently made such a decision from the Czech Republic, Slovakia, the Netherlands, although in other Western European countries it is not as a rule. As some, under quotes, call them professionals protected by public interest, is best seen from the Croatian Privatisation Fund. This second scarf, using the trust of people who are clearly in power, has systematically stolen the Croatian state for more than a decade, so thoroughly that they could envy Rade Pasic. The "Maestro" action is certainly the best thing that has happened in the past 4 years in the Croatian state because the institutional form of stealing of the Croatian state has been contained. The official has this kind of public legitimacy. I don't know how many parliamentary deputies there are on some monitoring board, for some of us here we listen to on television. I repeat again, no one from the IDS club is on any monitoring committee. But I also think it's best to control, say, the decisions of the people of politics who are on such boards. Public interest, I am almost convinced, clearly not to give someone the opportunity to be in 70, 20 or 15 or 5 supervisory committees will protect officials but some third on one condition that these officials know where they're actually going. Well, someone won't tell me that better some public interest will protect some, say, NGOs from people who have electoral legitimacy, not to say now what their budgets are, etc. Politicians, I don't know the opportunity for, let's say, always approach the problem wanted someone to agree or not more socially because their survival depends on the mood of the public. I argue that some people in politics are not on the supervisory board of Croatian electricity or INA that both the price of electricity and oil would be significantly different forms. If we all commercialize overnight, gentlemen, perhaps, I'm afraid to collect the cost of living, start with oil, electricity, and then onward, and I'm afraid that such professionals who will be on these monitoring committees will put behind them chaos like those in the Croatian Privatisation Fund. What does this Law suggest among other things? All of you in politics are sort of thieves. It's not exactly like that. I wonder if the next day will stretch to the local level? If so, then I'll tell the gentlemen with care. Of course, it's understandable to me. We're trying to get the public to like us. And the fact that such a law tomorrow may cause more damage than benefits, we will clearly not answer to those of us who will raise our hand to that law. I repeat for the third time, the fourth time. None of us at the IDS are on any surveillance committee. But what is proposed does not exist in many countries, and I fear this law will cause some damage. Policy, on the other hand, is not always a perspective policy. Right, we had a minister, here, I heard that information just now, I don't know who he was, who was on the 70 supervisory board, it's the paradox of those who gave him that. We had ministers who were in the twenty, eighteen, fifteen supervisory committees and that's also absurd. I don't know, it's ministers like that today. That's what happened in the last government. I don't know, Mr. Linic, Mr. Shuker, Mr. Church must have been the same in about fifteen but by the letter of the law. Mr Kalmeta, Mr Goran Granic of HSLS, Minister of Economy, etc. It's absurd. But on some of those boards these people were told by law enforcement. However, let's say that the finance minister is on some supervisory board of the remaining Croatian monetary institutions of the Croatian Post Office, I think that should not be bad. On the other hand, I think it is urgent to recall it immediately from Croat Insurance, where Mr. Vojkovic gives himself a salary of $60, 70,000, a bonus he and the administration of a million-and-a-half kuna and smokes a normal 100-euro cigarette at the expense of the company. That's the one problem. And if we have such irresponsible individuals who allow it, those individuals should simply be removed and put there people who will protect the public interest. The problem is that in this country, far greater than that, there is a permanent existence of this party trade. And then as long as you hang up on that party store, we keep our mouth shut. It is known who will be elected to the Croatian Post Office, who will be placed in "Croatia Insurance", in the INA, etc. I'll say it one more time. The law seems logical to me, but I'm afraid that in some way we can cause certain damage, and that is precisely why, even though that statement of mine may not be, it's not popular, I come forward in that way. I'll say it one more time. Not all people in politics are also thieves. The representative has 16 thousand kuna salaries, he is automatically for the Croatian public thief. On Croatian radio television, we have 300 people who have higher incomes than ministers, everyone is silent and they are moral authorities. In other companies, I mentioned "Croatia Insurance," that I'm not talking about INA right now, the post office and all that, about all of this at some other time. We don't have a phone, we don't have a card, we don't have anything, we're automatically thieves in the eyes of the public, and those who run systems that turn a billion, two, three, five or twenty billion kunas aren't. And we're kind of, so I'm saying it that way, with such legal proposals that I'm not against in principle, we're playing with our own dignity. So logic should be, if the institution is doing a good job, so be the official. If he does a bad job, let him take responsibility, not only for his own name, but also for the formerly according to the Company Act, that responsibility also takes over materially. As it must also be taken over by one who will be the head of this company and is not, for example, an official. That's the point. So, that responsibility, the result of the work, not who's what. I'm afraid a law like this can also encourage and not reduce corruption. Whether companies will be more successful after that, good and opportunities are slightly better today in 2007, than they were in 2003, and in 2003 they were better than they were in 2000, in 2000 they were better than in '95, we'll see that too. The backdrop of this law, keeping in mind these god-awful independent experts I read and let's privatize everything. I think it would be one bad policy like bad politics and disenfranchise power. Our people aren't stupid. He's got a nice saying, a folk proverb that when there's no cat in the house, then a wheel is run by mice. And I'm afraid that some solutions can go in that direction that will create or some problems that will create this law. I'll see you in two or three years, which, for example, will turn into opportunities in some public enterprises. I personally hold that those who gain trust must be closely monitored. Look at what we're doing when we privatize some systems. In one INA, we first place people who do this privatisation and then leave them to perform the functions they had and during the authorities that entered the privatisation. We did the same thing with THT. Before the sale to Deutsche Telecom, Mr. Mudrinic came from the post of Minister of Telecommunications and remained in office until today. Clearly, I suppose in the interest of that new owner. As did the same case, it happened with the Bank of Commerce, etc. But the Bank of Commerce, THT, INA, these are national prides and national systems that have created generations and generations, and in the end we wake them up for why, here, we privatize them. So I like simple or we want to hear all the arguments. I am not in principle against these solutions, but I am afraid of the practice that will follow, and the most recent example of how it is managed by public property from people who are not officials, who are not party employees etc., has shown the case of the Croatian Privatisation Fund which was so thorough or so thoroughly stolen from the State of Croatia that as I said, so thorough was not even Rade Pasic there in '25. Or '26. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96311	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96312	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting what Mr. Cain stated, and often many say it according to the writing of newspapers that are unverified in this case. Namely, I was in only four, five supervisory committees and it was logical for the Minister of Finance to take responsibility for what Croatia's Luttria is doing, what and how the Croatian Post Office is doing, which we pulled out of all possible difficulties at the time. So, four, five, and not fifteen that I keep denying. In those fifteen, the government’s working bodies and many others, which are all expensive, are always a burden to the one who is on the job. It's a very responsible and dangerous job that's been a burden to me and too much. And so, I pray that it is definitely understood that it was only four, five supervisory committees and that my burdens were too high, it is better to have been led by someone else today who will take responsibility for it than the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96313	Thank you. Club representatives of HSLS, respected representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96314	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I don't think it's indicative that you want to contradict or question the honor of Mr. Church, but it's indicative of the level of our debate not only here in this house but in all of Croatia when Mr. Church says I was in just four, five. If he had said I was on all the same board of directors, we should have asked why anyone with the responsibility of the finance minister would have to sit on the supervisory board. But when Mr. Churchman, once again, I do not want to contradict him, and knowing that it is an honest and honorable man, he says I was in just five, six then actually expressing a general idea, the average attitude of our citizens, mostly us who are involved in politics. It seems that we are ibermensians, it seems that we are people who can catch at the same time the ends of business economic policies, balance sheets, financial flows in five, six or ten different state-owned companies, state-owned companies, in part those who are monopolies, in part those who are public institutions, in part those who are not monopolies, but who are trying to make profit and profit on the market. How is that possible? How is it possible for someone to perform only five, six duties, and in other supervisory committees, public institutions, government bodies, state funds or anything else, with responsible and burdensome responsibilities? Of course, this is not possible, or it is possible if we approach public services and public administration in an irresponsible, sleek way, a sloppy way of reporting how it is said nicely that we usually approach such jobs. So every little kid knows that night watch is even more cautious and must be even more alert than soldiers, mainly in one low corporate culture country, low corporate responsibility for governance. It is even more necessary for the Supervisory Board to be more careful, more alert than the management of society, and that in all these tens or fifteen years we have had supervisory committees that would warn the administration of anything that it can expect, for example, in financial failures, whether in audit reports, or in reports that even come here in this House of Commons. If they had even warned what was also the post of the Supervisory Board of Certain Mistakes in Business Policy, that they might have used their powers and duties under the Law on Commercial Society then I assure you that we all here in the Parliament today could testify that the audit reports of state firms are not a cemetery, they are a cemetery unfortunately. When you read Mrs Krasic's audit reports on the ministries and on the state-owned companies of the lady and gentlemen, it is not a sin of structure, it has cost the structure, it is the deadness of Croatia's structure. And instead of taking it into consideration, instead of putting this law into practice today, rather than encouraging young people. Or not just people, competent and professional people to go perfect themselves, to enroll, say, here's a school offered by the Faculty of Economics that is about to educate for the purposes of working on a supervisory board or in some other bodies, administrative councils or anything else. We're discussing today that it's not like that to be full of just five or six different supervisory boards. Supervisory committees in this state of Croatian society today, in this state of the Croatian economy, when, let's say, only two months ago, we had one of the worst affairs in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, when we are still in the grip of these affairs, when we have not finally sharpened the issue of political responsibility and moral responsibility for this affair. We can discuss whether or not we need to and can encourage other people to, as experts, like those who have enough knowledge and competences to participate in supervisory committees without us being able to move away from such a debate, and I think it actually shows that, apart from having no corporate culture and corporate responsibility in the management of societies, we do not have political responsibilities and we do not have any legislative responsibility to create one thing right now, we can say to the economic climate that in the supervisory committees there are people who, according to their expertise, can say so by the nature of our work or by sending in these supervisory committees, really want a good society that they control. And the fundamental purpose of the Croatian Peasant Party's proposal and us as Liberal parties is to have public services oversee the citizens themselves. We, as people chosen to pass laws, as people chosen to run executive policy, are naturally unable to manage and control all these institutions by our competences or by our adopted knowledge and skills. And it would be better to make it possible, precisely because we have to participate or we have to in some way and we are responsible for public services in this society rather than allowing citizens themselves to oversee these public services. To make these public services better, to become more efficient, to have fewer immoralitys, illegal acts, affairs, crime, corruption, we are today discussing whether perhaps we should allow politicians, or state officials, to sit on a few just supervisory committees. Or we would like to admit that, for example, the job of a minister is not so serious, responsible and complex, so it can be done on a daily or weekly basis in that daily hectic where a man is employed and, of course, unfortunately and often drowns, that he can also do business on several supervisory boards. Either that job is not responsible, or of course we don't need such supervisory committees. Then let's all think together, given that this is a House of Law on Commercial Society. I think that although it is also the end of the term of office, our initiative actually wants to raise a ladder above which it will have to jump then the next government or the next executive power. And we actually want to make these commitments regardless of the outcome of the election, regardless of the possible ideological and political debates, mutual competitions and plantings in this society, the cause of affairs, the conversions, the inflating of affairs etc., we want to actually create a final atmosphere in which all parties in general agree that it is better that citizens themselves who will be qualified to do so, who will have a certificate of supervision of state-owned companies, predominantly state-owned in which the state may have only part of ownership. And we think it's much better than what we have today. I'll only tell you one next example. Ladies and gentlemen, next week is the ACI session, the ACI Assembly, imagine with what proposal. The ACI did not pay the state certain concession fees because ministers promised not to pay them, that the state would beat them up. And now the state is proposing with tight interest that the state capitalises on the value of the claim, with the stock price at which the state will capitalise on the value of the claim being 3 thousand kuna for the state. Although there are 12 thousand kunas on the market today. At the same time, the state seems 82% to small shareholders, so to Croatian citizens who are owners or co-owners in the rest, because the state seems to me to have 82% and 18% are others, it does not allow the same. It is the same for them as small shareholders, so it makes it impossible for Croatian citizens. I am trying as an advocate to fight with Minister Calmeta, with Secretary of State Bačić that a man who has 7% co-ownership and ownership of ACI enters the Supervisory Board. For three years, a man who is otherwise an entrepreneur of Croatia has been constantly preventing himself from being part of the supervisory board. So not only does the state want to be only state officials, but it does not allow people who are entrepreneurs, who bought ACI shares, who care that ACI works, not to allow them to be members of the Supervisory Board. We must change such a situation, the meaning of our law, and it is not that we are all hitting on everything now and that we, as HSLS, are now calling the former or current furniture in power, we say your ministers are guilty, but that all together, we all stop running a policy where there is some kind of corporate culture and responsibility is a completely unknown concept and that we tighten the issues of responsibility especially of the supervisory committees. Because the supervisory boards, as they say, need to oversee the business of a society. And I don't think it should stop there, it should be just the first step in general depoliticalisation, and even the effort to keep Croatia from at least in its economic area as a country of party-to-party rule and economy. We should strive to ensure that both local self-government and local elected officials are not members of supervisory boards and local companies, members of the boards of directors, but also citizens. All that is happening in Zagreb, Istria, where in Zagreb a man and in Istria IDS, practically rule all supervisory committees, take their place in jobs, etc., it is the best sign, the best sign that it is necessary to depolitise and reduce partocracies both in local self-government and in regional self-government. And that's why I think that this law today is just the first step and that actually real reform and real change should affect the whole society.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96315	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First respected representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96316	What concerns me, in fact, is what my colleague Chehok said: "It is not possible for someone to be a minister and a member of the 5, 6 supervisory committees.", it is an illusion of a fellow Churchman, who is extremely capable and who can also be a minister with a good organisation and be on several supervisory committees. What is not possible and this shows your example, to be mayor, that and Mrs Adlesic, and to be a good representative. And if you'd been consistent, then you'd have suggested abolishing that... The mayor and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in this executive power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then I'd believe at least one word, I don't believe a word of this. I don't even believe you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96317	Second correction by the respected representative Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96318	Mr. President, I also join in correcting the claim that it was not possible to work responsibly if there was another job. So, counterpart Chehok, the second nobody was able to solve the problem of 760 million losses of the Croatian Post Bank at that time, I was simply sent to the job. And some other jobs. You don't need exclusion, where you get the idea that the young people who come to me in college will be good, excellent members of the supervisory boards, they're welcome to us, we make money on them, but they'll be good for you too, some won't. The exclusion of any species is not good. Also, I wouldn't want to return you in such a way that you can't be a good mayor if you're a parliamentary representative, I think you can, but the question is whether you can do other jobs at the same time, maybe you can, but you can't generalize and you do it all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96319	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Representative of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96320	Mr. President, Mr. Letica hurt Article 209 because he didn't correct my guilty allegations, but he was getting into it if I could be a good mayor and a good representative. I can. Because in a centralized state, the mayor... He can't help himself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96321	The representative of the Church gave an explanation, as well as the representative of Letica about correcting your claims. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure.../The speaker doesn't understand./... Representative Damir Cain, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96322	Yeah, right. Mr. Chehok, as he said, Mr. Letica turned out to be unworthy. It would be credible that he first withdrew from the mayor's post and that such an initiative was launched in the Croatian Parliament and following the same bill where officials could not be members of the Supervisory Board. IDS certainly has some members in the monitoring committees in Istria, but I believe far less than HSLS in Varazdin, HNS or some other political group.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96323	And distinguished representative Mario Zubovic, here you go. [[We've proposed everything.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96324	Mr. President. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96325	What you've been told and others that your credibility is in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96326	You're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96327	I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96328	You've finished your presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96329	Someone here shuts me out all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96330	You're done. Here's a colleague of Zubovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96331	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to correct Mr. Chehok who says the government doesn't allow in ACY that, that and that. It is not true that the government does not allow, but the government is acting by law. The government is acting by law. And you've come here to look at everyone who's been in position in the supervisory boards as well as the minister who, not by his own free will or by his own means, was running for office, but because he was a minister, he was a member of the Supervisory Board. And all that you've said I agree with you and that's exactly what we should apply everything to ourselves. We should apply it all to ourselves and here you are selling, here you are selling and television viewers simply one demagogue and I think even after Mr. Letica's viewers who said nicely that they will recognize your untruth that you want to place here, and Mr. President, I would ask you that Mr. Chehok does not use this tile, in fact, not to abuse it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96332	Injury of the Rules of Procedure..... /Invader: He kept it, he did it... /... [[You don't understand.]] Representative Chehok, good.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96333	Mr. President, first of all, all the articles were injured because at the same time two colleagues were replicating me. That's the first one. Secondly, Mr. Zubovic did not correct my wrong allegations again because there was no wrong quote. Mr. Zubovic should know that Mr. Chehok i.e. I haven't been a member of the Supervisory Board in three years, and I was only six months in Vartex when Vartex needed help. [[I, I didn't even say that, I didn't say that.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96334	It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, Councilman Chehok, peace please! The representative explains, according to his point of view, the representative Zubović explains your incorrect claims. You can't paralyze him with his misstatement. You can't, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you have no right to do that. A SDP representative club, the respected deputy president of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96335	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. counterpart Chehok has made an unusual situation in the Croatian Parliament that, on behalf of the HSLS Club, he has voiced an attack and called one representative, former Minister of the Church. So as a previous question, let us answer it. He had to be a member of the Supervisory Board in Croatia's insurance, in Postanska Banka and so on, but it was nothing compared to psychophysical and working opportunities which at one time could be handled simultaneously by a representative, mayor, member of the airport administration, lecturer at two universities, a member of the Supervisory Board and so on by Mr. Ivan Chehok. So if so, first go from yourself and argue with the fact that in many of these bodies you were not by law but by your own will and on the basis of your own interest. The second thing I want to say publicly is we will vote for this law, we agree, but we must publicly say this is not the most important law in Croatia. There are several questions on which this assembly will also remain in charge of resolving the legislative and in the interests of the state and in the interests of the people, if you will and in the interest of establishing the rule of law and legal situation in Croatia. And it turns out at first sight that the State Officials Act is one of the most important laws in the country. Dear colleagues, this is the 17th amendment to this Act since 1998. So it turns out that the most important question is how much we deal with ourselves is representatives, ministers and other officials in this country. It's not like that. The third thing we want to say publicly is the fact that this debate and this bill will show duality or even multilayerity of morality in Croatia and even at this level. I must say, clearly and responsibly, the most important question is immorality, if you want illegality in the transformation and privatisation that has been done. The fact is that the law on the revision, on the SDP initiative, was passed by the former coalition assembly, the fact is...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96336	... Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of State officials, not... [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96337	Yes, it is, but these same supervisory committees were involved in the conversion and privatisation of Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, and we're talking about it. And that's what we're talking about. [[Intruder: Not about the Law on, on the revision of conversion and privatisation.]] And in such a situation it is quite clear that these illegalities should have been corrected and brought forward because it is the opposite of the Constitution. [[Intruder: Theme, Theme.]] Our Constitution in Article 16 clearly states, I will quote it: "If possible", so the Constitution says "freedom and rights can only be limited by law to protect the freedoms and rights of other people and legal order, public morality and health". Dear colleagues, whether it is moral, whether it is in accordance with the legal order, whether it is in accordance with the protection of other people's rights that we are consciously present when nearly 1500 audited companies show that more than 92, of 95.2% of it has been done in an incorrect and illegal manner and we do not pass the law to correct it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96338	A colleague...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96339	Now we've offered the Constitution... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96340	Arlović we have passed all the necessary laws, separated all the necessary reports and conclusions...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96341	We're not a respected president yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96342	And stick to the subject please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96343	I stick to the topic on behalf of the Club because we are talking about the functioning of supervisory committees in companies both state and public, local and self-government and...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96344	Well, then you're talking about it, not reviewing conversion and privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96345	As necessary, privatisations in which many of your colleagues and my colleagues were also represented and as ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96346	The theme.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96347	Surely, then, that is one of the big problems. Another problem that shows the duality or multi-layerity of morality, on the one hand, I suggest that the removal of members of the Supervisory Board that they can no longer be officials and that now that, by law enforcement, it could be just... The second question is what in practice turned it into a rule. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if they weren't supposed to and didn't receive any compensation for working on that supervisory board. But that's why at the same time they can be representatives and mayors, so if you want the mayors and manage several billion kunas of asset value, budget. And not to mention the value of the total assets of these cities and these counties they run. The question is, what are we talking about? If that's what we're talking about, then we're saying again we are for it, as we were, and so that such conflict of interest is actually prevented and that they can't be on both duties at the same time or at local self-government. Unfortunately, when there was a debate and a vote on the law, then we were left alone on matters. Third question. We must be aware that by eliminating the possibility of state officials being members of the Supervisory Board, it does not mean that we will be able to prevent representatives of the state, local and regional self-government from being. They must be because they own portfolios in these companies are supervisory committees. There will be no officials but there will be others in the name of which they will appoint them. What difference do I make? The difference is very simple. The difference is that they will be paid, they have worked without compensation, and they will all be paid. And I want to warn you of another question. This opens up additional space to solve so-called. Party clientalism and the resolution of the interests of party people coming from below, etc. And that's not a solution. Question... The section, as it is said, had to be resolved as a special model of duality that the Law on political parties in this House offered by the Parliament was adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The SDP Assembly, but it didn't pass. So now the question is actually raised, and what will we do next if we do not resolve the issue of governance and supervision in public and commercial, state-owned enterprises and units of local and regional self-government before that. What are these responsibilities for the protection of public rights? The privateer knows that the privateer will take care of his own interests. But since we still have the awareness of social or public ownership as a plow of the beige straw, then it's no wonder that it's actually happening to make such manageable decisions about the assets that elevate that property into invaluable property. Well, at the end of the line, it was too late to give it with such a discount on the sale of Telekom shares and that some of the Croatians or Croatian citizens earned it. That'd be great. Just know the price will pay as opposed to the price that is on the market Croatian citizens all. And those who couldn't participate in it, and the funds could have been used to cover up if nothing else was dueiosis or where there's no dubiosis in neither shipbuilding nor in health care, nor in traffic, etc. Then it could be used such a means and morale if we are economically responsible for raising the standards of our citizens in education, science, culture, health, etc., etc. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, we would like to remind, before the end of this session, that there are several key issues that this assembly assembly leaves in the next Assembly. And we also want to remind you that the more time goes away from not solving these issues, the harder it will be to solve them, and that moral and legal injustice will be because you must never forget the laws that allowed such conversion and privatisation as it was, that we will not be able to correct it. And in this respect, we in the SDP are publicly ordering that we vote for this law, but we don't want to act like no other person when he puts his head in the sand. We are fully aware of everything that is and what is happening, as we are aware not only at this global level of duality and multilayerity of morality but also in the specific situation which is particularly witnessed by a representative of the Czech Republic, speaking on behalf of the HSLS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96348	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96349	Mr. Arlovich, I'm correcting your inaccuracies. I was never at the same time, so simultaneously both the mayor and the representative and president of some kind of administration and lecturer. So you have the wrong information. I'll repeat, I was a member of the Vartex Supervisory Board on an explicit request. And to the express request of the workers of Vartex, the small shareholders. And I've accepted that, and it's an honor, to you as people who advocate or at least to you, the personal interests of the workers will never happen. So on a very working request I was and I'm honored to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96350	HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96351	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the law which provides that state officials may be members of the management and supervisory boards of commercial companies, institutions, extra-financial funds in which the state has a majority right to manage under this proposal wishes to withdraw from these functions so that all these institutions would in fact remain without direct interference from the Government to their function. It is proposed that, instead of government officials, experts should be appointed to the boards of directors, without some definition of what they are experts and which, which conditions these experts would have to meet. The proposal, of course, has a great political weight. And the HDZ club will support this first reading but we will put a whole series of remarks because such a raw proposal can cause more damage than benefits or perhaps as much damage as it benefits. There are several situations where such a situation with experts instead of state officials in supervisory committees could lead to serious difficulties in the work of these companies in our conditions, so in conditions that rule and at our level of development of the management of large business entities. For example, if a member of the government could be just as the congregation of society was proposed here, and not in the supervisory committee, he would find it too late for a major change that may have long - term bad consequences to influence it. We know today that members of the Supervisory Board, state officials have the best information on the work of other parallel governmental portfolios, and often that information is intertwined and affecting its function as a member of the Supervisory Board. I, for example, cannot imagine how the Governing Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund would function without the representatives of the Government. When this Governing Board of Decisions is based on a whole series of events that have occurred in various sectors, or decisions that have been made, and which really cannot be known by someone who is not directly involved in the work of that Government. Another question we're asking. If we shut down state officials, does that mean they can be on the boards of state officials? If they will be, then the law has not hit the target because it will again be a direct impact of ministries and states, but at a lower level in terms of information availability. Surely there are also good sides to this proposal, especially the observation that some state officials are even on nine supervisory committees. It is really not possible to do this in a quality way. But the example set for Professor Church and others is precisely a positive example when the company is in majority state-owned, in one difficult situation then it will definitely help to repair the position of that company precisely as it will be able to make, by its authority, both by its knowledge and by the information available, decisions that are most favourable for the company or for that economic operator. The second thing that can be objected here is that there is no transitional period that determines this law. If we now suddenly were to change all the civil servants on all the boards of directors, we would have a real problem in the functioning of some supervisory or management committees that should certainly be avoided. In other words, we insist if the law is accepted to provide for a certain transitional period in which such a situation could be applied and without harmful consequences for the companies we are talking about. I would warn of another danger of bringing in, which does not mean that this proposal is excluded, but the danger of bringing in people who are experts and all the honors of being experts, but who are not state officials. We have a whole series of borders in the work of state officials, a whole series of legally established control mechanisms for the work of civil servants, which should then be valid for those professionals. For example, under the Law on State officials, an official may not receive gifts above some level, etc. If we do not regulate the relationship of these experts in the supervisory committees in relation to the restrictions they have in their work, we can open a new large door to a new form of corruption. And let me get this straight. The proposal has, of course, positive sides and it is good that it entered the first reading, as it allows the depoliticalisation of governance of state-owned enterprises, companies owned by the state. The question is whether it's time for such depoliticisation and whether such companies today have stepped on their feet that they can truly be under the command stick of experts. I do not agree with the observation made, that there is very little or no number of supervisory committees that have disputed the decisions of the administration of certain undertakings. I can personally testify that in Croatia, the insurance that was already mentioned here, not only suspended the different decisions of the company's administration but we even refused final annual reports, we rejected a whole series of proposed contracts, etc. It doesn't matter in my personal opinion whether a member of the Supervisory Board is a state official or not, it matters if it's a conscious person and a person working in the interests of the owner, which is a state. Whether the better interest of the state will be protected by an expert who does not know the functioning of the state administration in those details in which the state official knows or not, it is indeed a matter of debate. In other words, the HDZ Representatives Club supports this first reading with the requirements that I have stated, which should open a wide debate for a second reading so that we do not have to throw away the child with the crushed water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96352	Thank you. HSS representative club, respected representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96353	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'll start with this where Professor Hebrang ended up when he said we should be afraid not to throw away the child with water. I think we should give up such a child, this way the supervisory committees in Croatia work. It is interesting that, on the proposal to amend the law, we did not get a timely statement from the government, and we are discussing that we do not have it on benches, but it is interesting that there are no government representatives sitting here, obviously they are not interested in this change, and they are obviously not interested in the possibility that we will eventually try from the first reading to come up with a final proposal and adopt something of quality that the public expects us to do, to make a new step to establish some new standards because I am afraid that this is our last chance here in the House to make a good move, and it is our chance to also send a good message from this House. That's possible. But if we think that in the cloudy water that he's obviously got, that's where I agree with Professor Hebrang, throw the child away, then we're in a completely wrong position. Which is why, in fact, where we start to explain the changes to this law. Perhaps it is best to start from us, and when I think from us then I want to talk about the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which this Parliament has appointed. There's a mandate coming out tomorrow. We'll have a break-up. However, this Supervisory board has not filed a single report with this Assembly, nor have we asked him, or the parliamentary majority. Moreover, this Supervisory Board of the Croatian Privatisation Fund has not met once in four years regardless of the numerous problems and affairs that occurred in this Privatisation Fund. Did something go wrong in there? Well, it's obvious, and the sparrows on the branch know that. Is that what we discussed? We didn't. Did we plan this monitoring committee? We didn't. For what? Obviously, there was no political will for that to happen. Example number two is Kornati National Park. There was a great tragedy there, I would not like to exploit the subject in the light of this law, but it is absolutely certain that the fire in Kornati started from the courtyard, better said from the administrative building of the National Park "Kornati" which was renovated at the time when the law defends it, at the time of the tourist season. Apparently, management did it. By the way, that's where the black workers worked. However, the administration is today at the head of the Kornati National Park. The Supervisory Board didn't think to change that and that kind of administration, as much as anyone on the Supervisory Board didn't think to resign as a moral act. I don't really think these guys deserve a different comment. If they caused a fire, is there a responsibility? Well, of course there is. And did we try to determine? No, we're not. Why didn't we? Well, I guess we shouldn't throw it in cloudy water and the kid. That's that comment where we changed the laws. We're chasing pyromaniacs with helicopters, the police are on the ground, even the chief officer, which is, of course, commendable, but those people who caused the biggest tragedy, those people who set the fire still sitting in their seats. That's the cloudy water, and that's the inexplicable reason why it's happening to us. Third example. There's a lot of them, but I'm just gonna give you a third example. The third example is called "Brodosplit", "Brodosplit" which should not be commented at all. And the board and the board of directors obviously made a bad decision and it's obviously not an accident. They favored someone, they accepted a worse offer, the minister's resignation was even questionable on the board of directors. So what's the question after all that? The same goes for complete shipbuilding. After 4 years of shipbuilding and here we are in the Parliament, we will find that the losses in that period are more than 1 billion euros. In 4 years, instead of rehabilitating the shipyard, we have increased the losses, but everyone is alive and healthy in shipbuilding, all members of the supervisory board, most of the management, because of course we don't care. We are not interested in the quality of how they work, we are not interested in setting up better and different instead of the bad ones, this responsibility is completely loose, regardless of what billions of kuna are and there is no such responsibility at all. However, the Trade Society Act tells us something completely different, that members of the Supervisory Board are also responding to their property. Well, in the history of Croatian governance, that's what I call it, companies when they were inside, especially government officials, it didn't happen. This did not even happen in the privatisation of companies that also had supervisory boards. And the Croatian Privatisation Fund has been since '93. For years, he further appointed these supervisory committees. He named both ministers and state officials, so now here's a little polemic relative to Professor. Hebranga, should they be on the board of supervisors and officials other than state officials? Well, they probably shouldn't even be officers, since we have experience worse in the past period, but there is a solution. There are wise solutions, and the wise solution is to direct the drivers to these supervisory committees, because the drivers are employees, they are neither government officials nor officials, and then the minister will be simple, because every day he will be informed about the situation in society from his jurisdiction, from his portfolio, and the only thing left for us to do is to train these drivers because they do not yet have the necessary knowledge. We can pay for that training, it seems to me that the price is somewhere around 18 thousand kuna, and since these drivers have the authority of the highest state official, because the phone deals don't even know about the board members, then we'll settle that dilemma, but we'll be on the board of directors instead of government officials and driver officers. A few reasons why government officials couldn't be. I have to admit that I'm also going to speak as a man who's been on the board of directors, and maybe I'm the only one who's ever resigned on some board of supervisors. It was about 6, 7 years ago, I resigned from the Croatian Bank's Supervisory Board where I was appointed, because I realized that there was nothing I could do, as well as such composition of the Supervisory Board, and the composition of the administration at the time did not promise any quality shifts. However, it is absolutely certain that a state official should not be on the supervisory board because it does not allow time. One minister, State Secretary or Assistant has no time and should not take him away to deal with company supervisory committees. Often, the main struggle in the work of the supervisory boards is a battle for the quorum, because it waits half an hour, an hour and a half to get those senior officials together in order for the supervisory board to start working, and that is thus one narrow throat in the management of society or in the control of society, because we have a misrepresentation of the supervisory board. We think that the Supervisory Board must only have a control function, but the Supervisory Board must also deal with the strategy, the Supervisory Board is also responsible for development, and not manage it as often as it does through telephone sessions. The fact that there seem to be some advantages if a state official is on the board of directors like us is not paying him anything. We pay him too much, and we pay him too much if he makes the wrong decisions or if it suits someone. The second thesis is, so they're still responding to the prison for the company or for the state of the system, so it's logical to be there. It's also a professor. Hebrang brought it out. It's logical that they're responsible for that resort, but they can also propose people who have professions, people who have knowledge, who have experience doing it, and that they're out of state, so it would be good if they were out of politics. It's the biggest problem for us since there's a company law that people on boards are also from politics and that in most cases they're incompetent because they don't have the knowledge to do it. So it would be good to take a more significant step in that area. I spoke to professor yesterday. He also told me that at a university of entrepreneurship, he studied a thousand 200 students who, among other things, had a specialty. Perhaps in all other studies we have several thousand such people who should finally get the opportunity, who have the necessary knowledge, who are trained to do so, who have the necessary ambition, who have the time and who would probably know and want to resist the pressure of politics, because it is important when we discuss how to get out of this situation and change the way of delegation, but also how to work on the supervisory board. Large companies in Croatia have been running interestingly from politics lately. In particular, they have no idea that they would put someone from politics or that is even close to politics on the boards. They are looking for both management and board members, and this is an exclusive criterion, even in the employment of people, competence, profession and youth. But we here in the Parliament don't want to talk about it. Obviously, we're going to cloud the water in this debate. Obviously, we will not take advantage of the possibility to change the law on which the entire Croatian public has been negatively expressing itself for years. Maltenes could be said for tens of years. We have a chance, but we don't want it this time either. The HSS believes that this opportunity should be used and passed by law in, so to speak, in an accelerated procedure because we still have a chance. Tomorrow, we can vote on these simple amendments to the articles, and possibly, possibly some additional remarks and suggestions, we can put on the agenda and some other time, better said in the second round, but here unequivocally, a state official on the Supervisory Board has not done his job well. We have people who can do it for them, and that's why we're in favour of making an HSS and HSLS proposal to change this law, so I'm asking you to try and find an opportunity to do it in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96354	Thank you. At 11.34, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. Club of HSP MPs, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go. Pardon me for correcting the incorrect allegations before that, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96355	Your Honor, Mr. President, my colleague Pacek has made a lot of good suggestions, but I have to deny several of his incorrect allegations. First, he said with the saying and paraphrasing my speech: "We should give up a child that functions as today's supervisory committees." I must say that there are extraordinary ones, that it is not true, there are extraordinary examples of the functioning of the supervisory committees that are seen from the business results of the companies themselves in the majority ownership of the state and that it should be separated which is a bad supervisory board or good which can be very easily based on comparisons of business results before and after the supervisory board enters office. I also think it is guilty when it is said that the supervisory committees of the Croatian Privatisation Fund of Kornati National Park have committed irregularities due to the ongoing investigations. Investigations are ongoing, and we should not talk about the result of these investigations or influence judicial authorities. And in the end, it's not exactly supposed to be true that the board of directors and the Watch Committee of Brodosplit has favored someone as fellow Pecek says, because the investigation is ongoing here and we have no evidence that they have taken place. It's a slander against these people until we have a final verdict.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96356	Thank you. Second correction by the respected representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96357	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mr. President. A large part of mine, my correction Mr. Hebrang said just before me, and I would only correct the incorrect quote of an esteemed colleague, and I will quote: "We know that the people who set the fire and blame for the tragedy continue to sit in their seats." This I personally do not know. I'm waiting for the results of the investigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96358	And the esteemed representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96359	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a respected colleague claimed that since the government has no government representatives here, it is not interested in passing this law which is certainly incorrect because this is the first government that wants to pass the law that ministers and officials do not sit on supervisory committees but that there are experts sitting there. What no one here has mentioned in this House is only one party consistent and only in one party the mayors and mayors are not and representatives. It is the Croatian Democratic Union. And that's why I think this law is if we are in a position to bring it, and this is the credibility of the Croatian Democratic Community. I am sure that ministers and state officials will no longer sit on the supervisory boards but experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96360	HSP club respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96361	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The position of the Croatian Party's Club of Rights on this Bill proposal is long known. We have had such or similar provisions in the proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. If that law were proposed in the original form, it would probably be different today. We shouldn't discuss this HSLS and HSS Club proposal at all, which we normally support. It is therefore indisputable that the model of which it was considered that state officials as members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards in commercial societies, owned by the state, i.e. largely owned or out-of- budget funds, would be the ones who would primarily guide the interests of state interests so that all this would happen so that the state would have its own control. It may have been the beginning when government officials first entered the supervisory boards and boards, when they had low wages, and they entered for a variety of readings. That was until 1999 when the Law on officials' salaries was passed, when it was done quite differently. After that they had nothing but always considered themselves irresponsible for anything that happened. Let's say the Privatisation Fund case. So there are a lot of cases where government officials feel they have absolutely no responsibility or political or moral, and there they are members and are members of supervisory and management boards. They were tasked with making sure that the interests of the state were protected precisely by the team in the supervisory and management committees. We know how our privatisation went. They're all considered irresponsible. He doesn't even have any political responsibilities. Not to mention other forms of responsibility. And why is it so we really have to ask ourselves because obviously we will have to have one whole law on what it means to join the board of directors and supervisors if someone is on behalf of a member of the board of directors who are all and rights but what are all these and obligations? Because it won't be enough to just pass this law and to exclude government officials as such from membership on boards and boards of directors. With the fact that I have to say right away that part has been forgotten. Some officials are also from the Chamber of Commerce. Let's say Minister Calmeta's from a company assembly I think about HZ, for airports. So that part is forgotten here. The same situation is true that in the former and current government, individual officials had so many memberships in the supervisory and management boards that in full respect of these words, the laws of physics were remedied. The laws of physics remethyl. I think it was in the last term, during the last rule that Mr. Mato Church was a recordman, I don't know how much you talked about, about 15, 17 boards of directors. It is likely that individual and current state officials would be if they were asked to respond without stuttering how many companies are members of the Supervisory or Management Board, they could not. They wouldn't be able to answer because we know when one of the TVs asked how many they were, they might have said by a number even though they were wrong. But when it's said, say where it is, well, there was a fight, there was a pussy, there was a little break, a clap one, a clap two. Here, that only speaks of one form of total irresponsibility. But we at the Croatian Party Club are entitled to settle other matters, which is a membership in supervisory and management committees and in congregations related to counties, cities and municipalities. Because the same problem as the state-level state officials, such a problem is related to county, city, or municipal officials. We know for example the City of Zagreb, the mayor of the City of Zagreb is also a congregation of companies, which was 23, 24 companies. And then he makes his own report. As president of the assembly, he reports to himself as mayor. And that was tragic for you since it was a congregation for twenty-something companies, so from each session there was a record that spent longer time on the record than there was time to consider such a problem. Therefore, we support this legislative proposal. I think it would be a good idea to bring it in and in an emergency procedure even at this session, with this part being added to the company's congregations and to reach one conclusion, the obligation that this government that is now going to be so-called. "technical" to do something in the meantime, so let's prepare a whole law regarding this part at, of all levels, who could and under what conditions would behave in the name of the state in, a member of the board of directors, means that from the level of the state, so from the level of county, cities and municipalities to get one whole part, because we need to be aware that if we have it legally settled, then we will have one full responsibility. But that's how we prevent may be important hotspots where there's room for corruption. We should also be aware of the various stories and affairs that have arisen in various companies. So, in this way we also allow another significant progress to try to prevent the possibility of creating corruption at the level of municipal, commercial societies, city, county, then it's public procurement, it's all there. So here's our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96362	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96363	So I want to correct one of the incorrect things that my colleague Kovacevic said. Namely, the Assembly’s report is not submitted by the President of the Assembly but by the Management, the Supervisory Board and by the audit reports. So that's incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96364	Proposer, respected deputy vice president of Dom Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague from HSS and we from HSLS, don't be mad at a more casual sentence, yet today, the day before the release, we managed to achieve the atmosphere that HDZ and SDP are not attacking, but at moments even dams and have a lot of understanding towards each other, so I hope that here, the law will be passed with the support of one and with the support of the other party and, of course, of all colleagues who have reached out so far. I will try to answer in order as my colleagues and colleagues, or colleagues, responded. With fellow Caine, it is clear that there is a need to determine the responsibility of the experts for the availability of the property and the model that you mention there is, it should be elaborated in the second reading, which is the responsibility of the property experts, because one thing is absolutely certain that such responsibility was minimum, half of the affairs that were happening would not occur. And in the second phase of preparation, we were still talking about it when we reached the conclusions of our two clubs, that the presidents of the administration were also selected in the next term and determined what would happen with the local environments. Such a law can really prevent party trade and synergy. And now is the right time right now for our disbandment and before the appointment of the new Parliament. But apart from syndukura and political trade as we know it has always been the supervisory boards that later were also a good opportunity to deal with political opponents, at the moment we were most comfortable with it. A colleague, Chehok, also mentioned the issue of the number of supervisory committees. The countries applying this model shall have a number of supervisory committees in which experts may be involved. He's moving somewhere between three and five surveillance boards. On behalf of the SDP club, counterpart Arlovic also reminds us that we should not feel and be called because of the fact that we are talking again about the rights and obligations of state officials. It is true that so far we have talked 17 times about it, that we can get the impression that we are dealing with ourselves, but this is exactly the opportunity not to deal with ourselves, to move away, to let go of this job to the experts, now that the mandates are out, when this law cannot be spoken of as a rematch, but rather to lay down rules for the future which is spoken of by fellow Churchmen. Mr Hebrang of the HDZ Club reminded us that it was a law that had great political weight, which is safe but also possible consequences. We're aware of that, but I'll only try to answer two questions that he's opened. Is it time to depolitize? It's certainly for the first important step. If we don't go, we won't get anywhere. If the lack of a minister in the supervisory committees did not bother one Czech Republic, Slovakia and Slovenia for development, I do not know why it would bother Croatia. A transitional period can, of course, be defined as it is normally done with laws and is done in a second reading. The idea of colleagues from HSP Kovacevic to urgently pass such a law is certainly good. I believe our clubs could agree to prepare such conclusions on a multiparty team. And I have to say to my colleague Pacek that you don't get the wrong idea when he was talking about the drivers he certainly doesn't want to insult drivers who do their job with honor, he probably just had someone in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96366	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96367	Well, here it is, maybe the correction of one quote and for the sake of accuracy and complete. Here, colleague Adlesic said she was pleased but then said one inaccuracy about this issue, that HDZ and SDP were not attacking on this issue. On this question, here's a miracle we've never attacked each other. In fact, while we were still in the coalition government, the HSLS attacked where it had to give up such a proposal that contained the original bill that you now want to change with your own proposal. He contained just such a provision that state officials couldn't. Exactly to insisting on HSLS, we had to give up this kind of solution that is now being sought. And in this regard, if we need to settle or disagree with someone, we don't need the power of attorneys or intermediaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96368	And what do you need? You need something. Is there something you need or not? ... You don't need anything? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] An individual debate. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure of Representative Đurđa Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96369	Mr. President, the MPs should be telling the truth. The number of MPs was known in the former government and there was no telling who had enough for most.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96370	Yeah, that's a comment, not a breach of the rules of procedure. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96371	Your Honor, Mr. President, this morning I was a little angry about these rules of procedure games, looking for a break on behalf of the club and a phone call from the government. And now I am glad that it happened because the government has clearly estimated that the promoters will look ridiculous in front of the Croatian public and in front of this House of Commons. Funny because the day before the parliament's disbandment, one cynical, two-faced bill they know will not be seriously discussed and the government in its brief opinion was actually so wise that it proposed that Antun Palaric defend this law, which is a well-known macroeconomic expert, as well as Djurdja Adlesic and his colleague, Chehok. So that's one of the most complex theoretical issues, the role of the state in the economy. So that's what the debates have been about for the last 30 years at leading economic institutes, universities and universities in the world. It's a conflict between concepts... economics, from economics offer or tv. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in this theoretically most sensitive space, two highly qualified people have joined, Djurdja Adlesic and counterpart of the Czech Republic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there isn't another Ljuba Jurčić who may know the most about it in this big home and I would be glad to finally show up and solve that big enigma. And now I'm going to tell you why it's an extremely important question. First of all, an early period of enthusiasm for post-Communist countries by privatising everything and leaving their own economy in the hands of the evil fates of foreigners in the famous privatisation processes today appears as a major boomerang. Col. Mate Babić, one of the leading macroeconomic experts, economists in Croatia, in the material that you have received, which is likely to come to the agenda, I hope that the president of our Parliament will put the debate on the agenda. On pages 67 and 68 of the material called "The debate on the economic state of the Croatian nation and the adoption of the economic development programme of the Republic of Croatia in the period from 2008 to 2012" breaks big illusions about how privatisation of everything and everything and abandoning economic governance in the public economy so-called. There is a great error in experts. I will read to you who these Croatian token managers are called certified privileged supervisors, it is a new profession in Croatia that received first certificates at a high school. Dean Kosutić in first place, Staško Adlešić in second place. It's Mrs. Djurje Adlesic's husband. Then, Hrvoje Vojkovic, Mirko Barisic, who is the former president of the Administration of Siemens and now the president of the Dinamo Football Club, and Siniša Poljak, I think he was involved in an affair about Brodo Split, if I remember correctly. So, what's the problem we're discussing here? The first level of problem is the theoretical nature to be discussed in theoretical enclaves. The second level of problems called ministers, so you can have a minister such as Mate Church, who is theoretically qualified or a minister like Ivan Schuker who is practically qualified for the job. And if he performs a supervisory function in a publicly owned company, he will perform qualified. But if you put an unqualified man on the post of secretary of state, let's say a poet runs an economy or means a doctor to run a health care facility, it's almost as catastrophic as it is when a poet runs an economy. Of course they will, by definition, be unqualified to do the job. And now we're going back to a problem that I'm particularly glad the government put forward. As usual, the HSS is a deluded partner in this project, so they are wise and silent. But they gave it to those who don't have a connection to make it important and get like a boomerang. So why didn't they go all the way? Which is why they didn't suggest they couldn't be in this High House, sitting mayors. We have three at the moment, Mršić, Djurdju Adlesic and Czechoko. Because it's technically impossible. While counterpart Ante Djapic was mayor of Osijek, Mr. President, he appeared there two, three times as a village bird because it is not possible to be at the same time at the head of a town that has mosquito problems at the construction of a handball hall and perform the responsible function of a parliamentary representative. It is therefore very important that the government allowed this law to be read first. It is very bad that the promoter or part of the promoter has blackmailed the practical government at a phone session this morning because it would be much more important and smarter if we had discussed the issue of maternity benefits because one of the main problems in Croatia with the problem that is related to unquality macroeconomic and macroeconomic management is the problem of demographic stagnation. It would have been much better if we had discussed a fundamental problem, which I hope tomorrow will be a positive vote. So, personally, with extreme anger, I will reject this proposal and I think it will be rejected by the proposings' heads, that is, that part of the proposing who has declared himself spokeswoman of the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96372	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Vice-President Đurđa Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96373	I will correct only what I believe is important to correct, and that is that in February we came out with a proposal for conclusions and that we referred the law to the procedure 12. Nine.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96374	Replica. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96375	Mr. President, here's a fellow Letica mentioned Brodosplit here, and that gave me some reason to say something. We have begun to mystify and demystify the Supervisory Board here, unfortunately for me, I've been the chairman of the Supervisory Board for a year and a half. We know in this Parliament and in the Croatian public that the chairman of the Brodosplit Supervisory Board was attacked. And now I'm going to tell you colleagues and colleagues, these days, that is, in the last month and a half against me, I'm being led by an unseen Goebbelsian hack, and do you know why? Because as chairman of the Supervisory Board, I warned of the unprecedented crime in Croatia post office. For example, there is going to buy something and evaluate this independent house, called "Diolid Croatia" at 14 million kuna Croatia Post office pays 25 million kuna. There are fake stamps worth 11 million and 800,000 kuna, points 3.5 kuna, and that's money, and then eventually it's destroyed without a commission. The equipment comes in on June 23rd last year and the destruction takes place on June 21st. Then there's the repurchase over the leasing, where the disaster is. For example, fellow Letica, one post office furbon in a year makes between 55 and 70 thousand kilometers and the bosses who were in charge, who have patrons in this House, a machine with leasing houses to make 127 thousand kilometers in 4 years and then pay a lot of points. I've been shown in the media these days by a member of the Supervisory Board and my deputy who's been in that place with a higher chemical school, and otherwise, it's such a genius that in two years, he's finished his school of traffic and in one day he passed seven exams and took seven exams a month. And every time he took his exams, at least these seven in one day were at his workplace. So, on my example, I wanted to say whether it was good that the chairman of the Supervisory Board in Brodosplit didn't react, or that I went more than half a year ago as chairman of the Supervisory Board and a conscientious citizen in the state's attorney's office and reported the crime that was going on there, which was covered by a state's attorney, otherwise a chemical Dado and there covered his pollen, one was removed and one was still there, but I hope not for long because he was soon waiting for a strip suit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96376	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96377	I would not comment at all, my colleague Loncar, I would not comment on these relations within the Supervisory Board, I have an idealistic and romantic relationship with postmen, postmen or runners, and I have defended them even in one half with the late Racan as one of the most romantic professions. As for the problem of Brodosplit, I was talking about competence as a presumption of responsibility. However, the responsibility itself can be regulated legally differently. Therefore, if the members of the Supervisory Board were to guarantee their own assets for the economic and other damages they are doing as members of the Supervisory Board, then no one would push themselves there. So, anyway, they have nothing to gain, now that they have no compensation yet if they had a responsibility, people would run away from it, and then really people who know something have a sense of social responsibility would want to be there.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96378	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96379	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few words, today's the last day of the debate in this session. I have to admit... This point today in first reading, here I'd say there are a few more points behind it that may be much more important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let us say the Law on the Processing and Use of Wood and Wood Products, which will likely be today at the end of the debate proposed by the Government, is the same in the first reading. You know, so, about whether something in the first reading today, or these days, isn't so important to me, it's more important that we still have those points that are important to solve certain problems today in our country to discuss. And I think that this point is certainly one of the more important ones, because when we look at what it looks like in practice today about how the supervisory boards work, then I would say a few examples in which I personally know a lot, given that I was once president of a large company's administration. When officials are in supervisory committees by these companies, then the functioning of the management of that company is quite difficult because it is impossible for our officials to get at a meeting of the Supervisory Board in some sort of working normal time. So often times sessions are held late, after meetings of the Government or the Assembly meetings when both officials are quite tired and it is difficult to discuss these things then. I think you all agree with me here. So it's simply impossible to bring it all together in special terms. They may set an example of a minister who was a member of a supervisory board and was not at any meeting of the Supervisory Board throughout the term of office. He was the minister for a short time, too, but because of his obligations, it happened. And as our officials, who are also members of the congregation, do certain tasks, may, say, set an example from not so far past where one session of the Supervisory Board, the assembly called late after nine o'clock, when a member of the administration who was our fellow representative was elected and he had already handed over the mandate to another colleague who continued the session in the morning. Thus, it is sometimes a fast system that certainly does not satisfy the quality of the general work in our congregations and monitoring committees. That's why I think it's a good idea to go back to what we had before, I don't know, 98 when certain members of the supervisory board were put in place, same on the proposal of the clear government, the government put them up, but she chose certain, by some likely professional key of people in certain supervisory committees who may not have had that kind of obligation, so they could commit themselves to the job and I believe they were skilled enough to do such a job. And then if it were applied now, then they would come, they'd avoid what's being said today, and now here at this session, otherwise in public, that some kind of political key sets them up if they weren't competent people for certain jobs. Yeah, I don't know, do they have the completed training necessary for such a single monitoring and I think it would be a good idea for us to look at and see how our private companies do it? Especially these private firms whose foreign capital is, say, banks where people in their department who know the business are constantly stationed. And in that part, we could probably get one great quality in that work and responsibility. It is clear that any member of the Supervisory Board should still be held accountable by the Commercial Society Act today with his or her assets and if he makes certain wrong decisions. So in that part, there could then be more quality talk about managing especially those companies that are still in some kind of today whether the local, self-government part-round is owned with partial, more or more. It also often happens that a certain official either with a state and local OA is a member of some supervisory committees that are mostly owned by a majority private. He also asks himself what, who he represents if he is, especially if it's a 100% firm, then he probably wants to get some kind of suggestion or power he has as an official to use a position for some private enterprise. We've had that a long time ago, and since it's now in force of a law where officials at the state level can't get a certain fee, we've still reduced it, and in the future I think we should avoid it. And not to be asked, then, what is the question of what certain supervisors, commissioners, or I don't know any other services, professions, heads of certain companies are doing in a certain, supervisory, certain supervisory committee. I must say, also from experience that we had cases in the past time that our Privatisation Fund appointed some people on its own behalf without even asking them. I can set an example where I was personally appointed to one, a member of a supervisory committee in which no one asked me to, and when I learned that the same day I resigned so that I was not formally at any session. I was a formal member of such a single supervisory board one day. It hurt me personally because someone just put you on a list without asking you. That you didn't even sign the consent that you wanted to be a member of such a supervisory board. I don't think that in that part we should simply not, especially shouldn't officials participate in this because then there's always a question of competence, of whether they have a certain professional capacity for certain, performing duties, and not saying that it would certainly be good to have certain skills for, especially for the dam in which they are and especially for, knowledge related to the management of certain companies. And in that part, I think that no matter what it is right now, I say that first reading of this law, I think that and I support that if it is possible to bring it to the end of this session. And if it doesn't, it will bring in another assembly of parliaments that is very fast, and I believe that we will all, in such a way, be determined that, in the future, in particular, state-owned companies are led by professional and competent people rather than by some similarity. Here's so much from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96380	Thank you. Four replicas. First respected representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96381	It's my replica of linguistic nature. In Croatian, professions are bound to verbs. So let's say fish fishermen, worker works, doctor treats, advocate represents. An employee is an unfortunate term. He doesn't have a verb. So the clerk's serving, but the clerk doesn't have a verb. Thus, the basic problem is an inherited concept that creates enormous problems. Therefore, if I were to ask myself, I would lift that notion from all Croatian laws and return to the old concept of service and service because it serves either its own people or its own party. Or generally good. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96382	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Željko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96383	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I agree with fellow Letica with you that in this case we've actually produced that name ourselves, and when you say official, you no longer know if it's a local self-government official? Is that the head of the municipality, the head of some single management department? Whether at a higher level, at a higher level in the county, state services, ministries, agencies and so on. Therefore, often our people do not differ, and I think this idea of yours is good to find a more appropriate name consistent with our tradition and our language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96384	Thank you. Second replica, respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96385	Although members of the supervisory board and the board of directors may be responsible for the business of these companies, it seems to me bad that we, as professional politicians, did not accept that people from politics, I mean now state officials, ministers who are in the supervisory committees under applicable laws and presidents of some supervisory committees such as Minister Vukelic in Split's smuggling. We did not accept that, at least politically, they were suffering consequences. to resign when it is apparent that there has been a conclusion of, say, unfavourable contracts at the expense of these companies and that they have been warned earlier. So it seems bad to me, for a long time, this term here has also been discussed in Split's smuggling, and it seems to me that we have done ourselves a bad favor as a political profession. The way we protected some people and thus showed that we were willing to punish, you mentioned mailmen. Here's my doa was the mailman. If he loses three letters, if he loses one pension or if I don't know what we're willing to punish him for. And if someone is the chairman of a board of supervisors who makes bad decisions and admits themselves in a certain way that they've been made, that bad decisions have been made, but as was said behind my back in this case, so I didn't know, and so on, that it doesn't fit in any way. When We Are Ready When we apply some principles to ourselves, then we will have credibility. [[Employee: Replication response esteemed representative Željko Ledinski.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96386	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with my colleague Jurevic that there should be a certain responsibility, in any case, that following some of the moves that have taken place. Whether or not the official was guilty or not to resign. Here's an example of our party colleague now who was a non-partisan person in the former government of Mrs... which, following the known affair with Baxter, resigned as such and simply showed that there must be a large degree of responsibility in that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it would also be good if many others who were as officials after the adoption of the Law on Officials had resigned immediately on certain supervisory committees that they could not have been forced to do so specifically and mediaically, not to say to the appeal of the Cob where in time everyone resigned from the place they were supposed to be. The rest is on our conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96387	Third replica, Honorable Representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96388	A fellow Ledinski in the context of a speech on supervisory committees said that people must be qualified to run certain companies. My colleague Ledinsky, it's completely wrong. The board members have nothing to do with running the company. The very word: "supervisory committee" if he knowingly does his job he only oversees and has no other legal option if you have read the well existing law but only oversees what the official management of the house gives him, it is the administration and other bodies that manage certain companies. But me when I'm an example. in the Croatian Post Office found out, I told you a few things earlier because I have to go to the replica system, for example one office of 70 square meters just for painting cost 546 thousand kuna. That was very suspicious to me. For example. when I found out that, for example, in leasing several million times more should be given money than to go by buying I don't know, small furgons, engine wheels, their equipment, etc., etc. but at the most expensive interest rates. Look what's happening to me. Now someone else just said, I think Mr. Pecek that members of the Supervisory Board have to propose and make decisions. No, they're just controlling decisions. But unfortunately we live in a country wherever a man and whatever he does, he's wrong. I hope and believe in the dear God that these lies these days that are circulating about me will eventually be "the last to laugh the sweetest laugh." Therefore, by my deep conviction, a member of the Supervisory Board can be any little intelligent who has a high level of expertise and who is above all honest and honorable. And we can talk about all this other stuff. These are variations on different topics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96389	Replicate response, distinguished representative Zeljko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96390	Your Honor, Mr. President. My dear colleague, Loncar, when I spoke of competence, I didn't mention you or thought of you and your competence as a member of the Mail Supervisory Board. But in any case, according to the Company Act, the responsibility and knowledge of members of the Supervisory Board is far greater than you wanted to show. They're not now that they can't propose. They're board members, they're putting together a president, you're putting together a agenda, it's not being drawn up by anyone else. So you're responsible by law far more and it doesn't really matter to be someone who is so you say it in a proverbial manner so that it can be on some supervisory board, especially some company that deals with certain professional affairs. Here you would not agree entirely with you, but in any case, expertise should be present especially in those parts of the company that deal with specific business and should not happen if only someone comes in likeness or part of it which is significantly subject to this or the one before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96391	And distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96392	Thank you, Mr. President. So the proposal that Mr. Ledinski represented in his resignation is indeed missing from the lower levels. In fact, there is no reason not to speak on the same criteria about the supervisory boards of public enterprises at city and county levels because there are politicians working at local and county and city level in these supervisory committees. City council members, municipal councils and county congregations are sitting. So there is absolutely no reason not to actually join in a broader discussion of all these levels in the same way. In the same way. In this case, in particular, public officials sitting on the supervisory boards of public undertakings do not receive compensation. They're receiving at lower levels. So we have this huge situation that really needs to be taken care of. And when you spoke of the responsibility and approach of individuals, you mentioned that some of the ministers never participated in the work of these supervisory committees. Well, I think we should go first. So you see how we, as Parliamentarians, fulfill our obligations. So let's say one example of one of the candidates for the prime minister, Ljuba Jurčić, a parliamentary representative who has been receiving a parliamentary salary for 4 years, which we have seen in this House, may be able to count on the fingers of one hand the days when we saw him sitting in a council here discussing and participating, etc. Thus, it is quite clear that such people, for example, use the position that they have come to in a certain public way and in the procedure prescribed. But it is certain that there is no responsibility for such individuals when it comes to the duties they have taken. So here's an eclectic example for the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96393	Replicate response, distinguished representative Zeljko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96394	Thank you. Well, in this first part of the presentation, an esteemed colleague actually said something similar to what I've apostropheeded. Maybe we didn't get along well enough. Surely you should take care of all levels, not only at the state level, but also at the level of local self-government, county, municipalities. And the question is, I asked what it means when some of these officials are involved in the work of some supervisory committee that is owned by a majority private property, owned by a city, county or not. And here we are, I mean, we especially agree. I kept talking about certain anomalies that happen to some ministers, and I didn't call anyone, so I would say the same about the parliamentary mandate that each of us has a conscience and that, in his work, he would show the electoral body how he worked. So is this case where you spoke. But that the work of our each representative is not only to sit in the House but also to do a whole series of other jobs that you know very well, you participate in the work of many bodies, not only of the House but also of the outside. And in that part, I don't think we should be calling each other and talking at this last session, I didn't mention any name in my presentation, but I talked about it in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96395	Honorable representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96396	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I was discussing the Brodosplit affair several months ago, speaking on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club, and for the first time in relation to the topic discussed, I felt that for such a serious debate and for such a serious social and economic problem as it was necessary to give appropriate answers that should not and should not be purely political character but should contain a public perception of the public's sense of governance of state-owned companies and, as regards the work of the supervisory boards, there are very conflicting opinions of the Croatian public. That's why I suggested that, in a way, the politicians move off the boards. Of course, this notion should not be understood in one sense now and said if we do so all will be well, but you will have to allow a certain step, step, to create a wider room for manoeuvre to really be a topic that is very important for this society, which is a way of managing companies, companies that are largely or largely owned by the public government of the state, in order to bring into that order that requires a modern market. Of course, two economies, a profit economy and a resource economy, which are naturally complemented and mutually conflicted. When it comes to the public sector, when it comes to companies that are largely owned by the state, they must live together. Why? Well, because with regard to some companies that have a public character like HEP, such as Croatian Waters, it is necessary to have the character of looking for a profit economy and the economy that we call a resource economy in practice and theory. An economy that will take care of social policy being represented in decision-making. So we made it very clear at the time that we believe that rough politics is not the place in the supervisory committees. That it does not belong in a management system in a way that does not conform to economic laws and economic logic. Of course, a welcome reaction followed by the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, which launched the project, is probably encouraged by such clear and unquestioned views that we then presented in the debate, and has started to build a system that should help all those who are members of the Supervisory Board to pass certain learning, pass a certain check, create certain knowledge that would benefit them in their work. Whether the 60 hours provided for in this study or not, is the quota set to answer over 75% of the correct answers to questions to obtain a certificate is sufficient, we will find out eventually. But, of course, it would also be too illustrious to expect that this will solve the content of the problem that we all want to solve together. But if we don't take the first step, believe me, we'll never do the second one. So let's not ask this amendment to this law, this decision or the fact that ministers and officials should not be on boards, finally a solution to the question of whether we will be able to manage companies that are mostly owned by public authorities tomorrow. That response will still have to be gradually built but without taking this first step we will not be able to move. Because you have a variety of cases. Here's a case of a Split company called Plput where the administration has not been getting resolutions for two years, no financial plan is accepted. The Supervisory Board hasn't responded yet, and it's clear only through the following media, that there's something wrong. Therefore, this is as evident as in those cases before, political responsibility but also the responsibilities of the individual who is in charge, perhaps receiving compensation for it and not reacting but waiting for the easy mandates to be brought to an end, etc. etc. Therefore, two levels of responsibility. We are now talking about the general responsibility of the public authorities who need to do everything possible to make companies that are in their possession do better, more efficient and more useful, and the second level of individual responsibility stemming from the Law on Commercial Companies, which is the task of a member of the Supervisory Board to do. Of course, their task is very precisely laid out in law, but the statutes of certain companies say that somewhere over 300 thousand kunas must be given a decision by the Supervisory Board, somewhere they say they should not. Somewhere they say you need to get a decision for a certain borrowing, somewhere you don't need to. However, it is unquestionable that they bring in a document such as the final account and that they must adopt it or not adopt it. The plan at the annual level that they must adopt, approve or not approve, and these are the strongest tools in the hands of the members of the Supervisory Board. Without these tools and without those decisions, the administration can't do business, it can't survive. If he doesn't get the discharge he has to leave, if he gets the discharge, he means you've been solidarityd with all the decisions that the administration has made and you're equally responsible as members of the Supervisory Board as well as management. You're equally responsible, if you've confirmed and given discharge. So this is far broader matter than the one treated by this change, but this change is the first small step. I will, of course, not now judge, practice in the countries mentioned by Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, etc. is in favour of the fact that politicians do not belong, but I think that each country must, given its own experiences, needs and resources it has, create the best decision that it will be. The decision not to appoint ministers and officials simply on the Supervisory Board is the first decision to be made, to create and build a new system of supervision of companies owned by majority. And I am sure that further development of the market economy in Croatia will not bring about that ownership, the more certain segments may develop, perhaps the state will enter those sectors in which it has not entered today, perhaps some sectors will recover. Therefore, it must be a good master no matter how long it will manage these resources entrusted to a serious public authority. So it would be good, unfortunately this is the first reading, and then everything is lost to credibility all that's been said. It would be very good for the conclusion that the clubs would make this first reading into a final draft of the law, that this procedure be a procedure of urgency, so that it can be adopted as a common act of the will of this parliamentary mandate that this topic that definitely has at this point and support the public and support of the profession, and here is the support of the policy to say so. There's no club that's a priority against these changes. So there's no club. Of course, there are grudges, there are warnings about what it will bring, there may be some exceptions that should be respected. There may be some exceptions where we should really respect the fact that there may be a minister there, but it is brought as an exception, but not a rule. So it's worth thinking about, but as an act of accepting what the public has done, the profession has accepted. It would be good if, at the end of this term, a decision which will be completely consumed and where we will have these changes to show we have taken the first step, and the continuation of work will depend primarily on how much we want to build a solid foundation for the development of the public sector in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96397	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Antun Kapraljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96398	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Markov, I personally don't trust you anything, because if you had intended to do it fairly, then you would have done it at the beginning of the mandate and your people, regardless of what you claim to have been in the opposition, they were sitting on boards and then if your intention were to be honest, you would have pulled them out of these supervisory committees long ago and wouldn't have participated in it. The same goes for your coalition partners, who have been in power all along, have been making politics together with HDZ, receive compensation, and all that comes out of it, and now 5 minutes before the disbanding this call, we're disbanding tomorrow, you're going with a proposal like this, and you're saying it's true. I don't even trust you with any of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96399	Replication response, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96400	Maybe you won't believe me when I tell you that I didn't even say this together so that you would believe, because I have no intention of doing anything with you at all, posemising whether it's a good thing for you to believe me. I think maybe it's even good that you don't believe it, because the fact that you don't believe it might give you greater credibility to what we've been saying. But trust me on one more. The HSS in most supervisory committees compared to the HNS was neither today nor today. The HSS has not received any compensation and the HSS has withdrawn from those positions of supervisory committees that have never called together anyway, and you are not only there, but you have deeply established yourself into trading companies systems, you really don't need boards, you have administrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96401	Okay. Now don't do polemics, it's a bit lexically unusual to do polemics. You don't need to use that kind of expression. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96402	Thank you, Mr. President. So I would actually start thinking about this law from the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia only when the debate on this law started and started, which was quite unusual, but the government gave it a positive opinion after the debate probably knowing that the mood of the Croatian public and for the perception of the Croatian public as well as the government has the political will to remove some shortcomings, some of the problems that have been manifested as such through the existence of the law. However, if the Government had the political will and had the intention of depoliticalising the usual term, then it is quite certain that we would not get this opinion today after the start of the debate on the Bill's proposal in the first reading, because the Government knows very well that tomorrow is the disbandment of the Parliament and that actually the bill's proposal in the first reading does not mean anything, because after the disbandment of the Second Reading Assembly there is no. If there were political will and the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to depolitize the supervisory committees, then it is certain that the government would at least then seem to me to be at the beginning of this year when, at the end of last year, we reached conclusions that had been bound by the normative arrangement in a way that state officials would be removed from the supervisory boards, it is certainly that the Government would have made its bill because in this House it is not usual to pass the proposals of clubs, especially opposition clubs. However, we can only read from this that the Government had no intention, no intention, no intention of removing from the Supervisory Board those who say that they did not have time to read the material for the meetings of the Supervisory Boards. And that's not good. But let's get back to the monitoring committees and see what the monitoring committees really are. The Supervisory Boards, of course, had their predecessors, and this predecessor of the Supervisory Boards, did what she did in privatization where she did not protect the interests of the owners, or those who appointed them to the supervisory boards, but protected the interests of the tycoon, whether in a political direction I do not want to go into it now, but the fact is, in fact, an inconclusive fact and a proven fact through the revision of the conversion and privatisation that these supervisory committees did not do the job that was intended. We just heard in the debate today, which is what I agree with in principle and when and before I became an attorney as a lawyer, I was faced with the Supervisory Board and the question, so why someone has to be appointed to the Supervisory Board by the owner. The answer was that it was logical for owners, through their representatives, to monitor the business of a company of capital, which is logical for me. However, we can see that that folk proverb confirms that hell is paved by good intentions. If, therefore, it was the intention to place on the supervisory boards people who are representatives of the owners logically, it is only logical that they should represent the interests of the owners and be perfectly responsible for those tasks which are before them and which are regulated by law. Through today's debate, and through previous discussions, I have the impression that someone between us still doesn't even know what the role of the supervisory board is, so they improvise this and that kind of reasoning. However, Article 263 said: The Supervisory Board oversees the management of the company’s affairs. The Supervisory Board may review and examine business books and documentation of the company, the register, securities and other matters. To this end, the Committee may use individual members or experts." So it is not true what we heard from the government of the Republic of Croatia when it was explained to us by the rejection and political responsibility of the board members, that the board members were deceived by the wrong report, by an insufficient report by members of the administration. The law obliges members of the Supervisory Boards to oversee business, including self-initiative review of business books, in case they are not professional to appoint experts to clarify this. Unfortunately, none of this and just here, over the last four years it has proved that actually these supervisory committees no longer make sense, or these members who make boards are actually some decor to say here, and there is a supervisory board and the board members don't have time to read the material. Well, imagine that! Or, say, the boards of directors don't meet during the term of office, not once. In my view, of course, the members of the Supervisory Board therefore help the owners to address the problem facing the company of capital, because it is owned by the state, to address progress. However, it is not normal for a company that is almost 100% state-owned, that a meeting of founders who is also a supervisory board should not be convened for a year and a half, and then when called, these problems are not solved, but are dealt with by peripheral matters and close their eyes to knowledge. With the knowledge that such a company has lost ten million a year, ten million a year. With the knowledge that, for example, taxes and contributions are charged to workers and have not been paid since the tenth month of 2004. These are things that the Supervisory Board must not close its eyes to because such a business is illegal. And it is an obligation by the Supervisory Board to oversee the legality of the business. Therefore, the Supervisory Board or set of founders, whatever its name is, does not perform its function or oversee the performance of the company’s management operations, and the Bohemian does not control the legality of business either. And this bill really, in my opinion, solves or is an attempt at a solution, let's not fool ourselves if it goes through in the first reading, it doesn't really mean anything, but trying to solve a part. One part of that problem, because I think that this opportunity should also be discussed about supervisory committees in those capital societies where let's tell the officials at lower levels, and I mean regional self-government or more specifically county and cities. Unfortunately, we have to realize that politics has drawn to the bottom. So let's try to count how many companies of capital that are owned by cities, units of local self-government and where members of the Supervisory Board are appointed not by professional quality so that they can meet the requirements and obligations of the laws regulated but named on a relative line. I can claim it. At my place in my county, because in small areas it's quite recognizable. And when I take members of the holding company, members of Djura Djakovic's holding company, when I look at the structure of these supervisory boards, I wonder, dear God, why these people sit there and receive more pay. They're inextricable, they're incompetent, but they're brothers, sisters, relatives, this, that, and even if they're in conflict of interest, so it doesn't matter either, and we'll close our eyes on that, so we'll let them be in conflict of interest, so let them indirectly through the supervisory board influence the company of capital that should be monitored, just for the sake of guessing some firms in some related property. So this bill of law is an attempt to get rid of these particular anomalies, to get rid of these anomalies. If the government had the will to get rid of those anomalies, then she would have proposed the law herself in an emergency procedure. In an emergency procedure, we'd have the law today. However, the Government did not intend to do so, and there with those ministers who were on the Supervisory Boards, state officials who were on the Supervisory Boards, it was evident that they had failed to carry out the work and obligation set out in Article 263. There wasn't even any political responsibility. So if there's no political responsibility, if there's no criminal responsibility, if there's no material responsibility, then I guess one day we'll come up with the idea that these supervisory committees are like these and they're abolished because they're really unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96403	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96404	I don't know what else to say about boards, I don't know what else to say about this law. And in my replicas and now I'm going to speak for example because it's best. Here, someone just said that the Supervisory Board needs to look for information and control the work of the administration. It's very difficult for colleagues and colleagues. You have in the administration of one or two criminals and then these criminals if they're connected for example to the secretary of state, then you absolutely can't do anything. For example, in my case, I was five, six times that was written and all the sessions were recorded, and then phonographed, because I had a feeling from the official data that had been presented to me, that it was malfeasance and crime. I was looking for information, I never got it. So one case, the other, the third, the fourth, the fifth, and that went down. When I saw that I couldn't do it anymore, I went to the State's Attorney's office and asked them to control some things. For example, in our society it is known that private companies buy state-owned companies. We are in Croatia's post office, which is why they're attacking me, which is why I'm being run against by a media hack because I've ruined someone's good profit and bills. Croatian mail was supposed to buy a private company called rapid production of documents. This private company was founded at the end of December 2005 and registered in early January 2006 and after a few days then management with that private company that the note bene was re-established by private companies and goes to buy a job for 25 million kuna and puts it into its investment plan for 2006, you understand. It puts it inside, and yet on their initiative they're looking for an auditory house to assess what they bought, they estimate it at a maximum of 14 million kuna, and that's how these things happen. And of course, when you start discovering things like that and since we live in the country we live in, since what happens happens then the media crucifies you. For example, if it's normal for you to have a secretary of state who's a member of the board of directors, now he's resigned since August to now have nine public advances on the same subject and constantly muds me. And I answer to those media, they won't announce me or butcher it, etc., a man has to go to court. But I hope that the Croatian police and the State's Attorney's Office will soon finish the job, so perhaps in the next session of the Parliament, someone from this pay phone will be able to say, here he was, however, one member of the Supervisory Board who was disclosing crime in a company where he was chairman of the Supervisory Board. I would agree with what my colleague Arlovic said that every supervisory board should do its job but I have simply been doing it in the past year and a half, a little more than I have seen in my great sadness that it is almost impossible. My boys and my girls, that's what I can call you, we're colleagues, here I am at the end of my term, remember that Jewish one. It's the greatest truth in the history of civilization. Everything in life is fleeting, only interest is eternal. And as long as it exists these are all stories for little children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96405	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96406	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government reportedly supported this bill at an emergency telephone session this morning. I'm not surprised at that at all. She supported the bill the last day of work of this assembly because the fate of this bill is entirely certain. He'll die of natural causes, we won't be able to discuss him in another reading or vote until the end of his term. Tomorrow we'll make a decision on the self-decommissioning of the Parliament. Therefore, this is a debate debate for the sake of it. If the promoters and after the election want this form of law, they will have to refer it back to the procedure, again to the first reading. That's why I'm not surprised the government supported him today. She didn't do it on time, she didn't do it when the law was sent to procedure. She was waiting for the last day to make a decision that didn't really mean anything. What provoked this bill? Two major affairs, Brodosplit and the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Brodosplit, Minister Vukelic, led by the supervisory board, failed to perform his supervisory duties. There was an affair, there was crime, political minister Vukelic's responsibility was questioned here in the Parliament but without results. The government sided with him, the government protected him, the government said no political responsibility comes into consideration. The unfortunate minister also reports in the second Croatian Privatisation Fund affair this time with three more of his colleagues. And here there was no political responsibility, although there were four ministers who were not under surveillance, but on the board of directors. They managed the Croatian Privatisation Fund at the time of the robbery. Now, why does the government support this bill? Well, because he's resonating, let's get the ministers out of these boards and boards of directors, and that's how we solved the problem. That's not the problem. The government wants to say this. So it's not a problem with how these ministers did, but the problem is that they were even on boards and boards of directors. So the problem isn't in them, the problem is outside or above them in the legal solution. So if we correct the law, then we'll solve the problem. You can't talk, I don't accept that logic to put it there. I don't know the dilemma of a state official or an expert, a minister or an expert. Well, the minister can be a professional person. Often, experts are qualified to exercise supervision in these companies. Some ministers are qualified, other ministers are not qualified. Some are professional, others are not professional. But in any case, we can't, at least I can't accept that just because the minister is not an expert and that he should now be kicked off the board of directors and brought in an expert. Mr. Arlovic here, speaking on behalf of the club, actually hit the center of the topic. This is a moral question. And we can't write laws about morality in politics. Such a law would be impossible to write. What law would make Minister Vukelic bear political responsibility for his failure to exercise quality oversight? By getting the ministers out now, we're actually going to amnesty them out of everything they were supposed to do and not do, for everything they did and did badly at the Croatian Privatisation Fund. And if, today, by chance, this was an emergency procedure, this law, discussed and voted, we would have amnested this team of this government and the government alone who simply doesn't understand what political responsibility is. Well, hebrang's always saying that the investigation isn't complete, the investigation doesn't investigate anyone's political responsibility, it's not done by the police. Neither do the courts, they determine someone's guilt if a crime is committed. But political responsibility comes before finding that guilt. And it happens, regardless of whether the court will find someone's guilt or not to find someone's fault, there is already a former minister, former government, Mrs Stavenic-Rukavina. Neither did she get those Baxter filters, nor did she produce them. But in her resor, there was a tragedy in her resor. And of course, as an honorable and responsible person, she resigned. There was no subjective guilt there. But there is an objective responsibility for the operation of the resistor. Unfortunately, we haven't seen it in this government, we haven't seen it in these two major affairs. And they will not be covered by any changes to the law. They can only be changed in the election, by replacing these people. To them, voters must say, gentlemen, we want the government, we want politicians who will be responsible. So, even because of the time this law is being discussed, we say he doesn't, he doesn't have a good perspective, he certainly won't be voted by tomorrow, certainly not. The government is late with their opinion. And now, and now, with such a positive opinion, he probably wants to send a message that as a government, we don't want ministers on the boards of directors, as if they couldn't get them out of the supervisory committees when they were government, they just didn't want them. They just didn't want to. And this positive opinion of the Government is, such a cowardly egg, throwing dust into the eyes, but, in the end, it is impossible to hide it, it is impossible to squeeze under the carpet, the minister's behaviour, the government's determination to protect you, not to allow any political responsibility to be questioned, apparently, it is impossible to hide it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96407	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96408	Thank you, Mr. President, my colleague said that former Minister Mrs. Stavevic-Rukavina, as an honorable and responsible man, resigned from the Baxter affair, and now I was a health participant and I know it wasn't like that. She resigned because of pressure, because of pressure from her own government and who took advantage of this as a convenient moment to replace the minister and appoint a new one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96409	Replica is a respected representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96410	Unlike many, I believe that fellow Stazic performs in principle. So you singled out colleague Stazic Ana's lesson, or a lesson from the former minister when she was replaced, as I recall, only I publicly defended her in columns and public performances. I am interested because you are calling on this colleague Vukelic, do you, by the precedent of Ana's instruction, believe that Milan Bandic, due to a series of accidents in the city of Zagreb and the rebellion of nature in Vrbani, should resign without delay in Martinovka and Kras? And is he still in your party?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96411	There's no response to the replica. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96412	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. This is indeed a dramatic debate this morning because we were ready to replace something that is a vital issue for a large number of our citizens and that is the youngest citizens, and that is the delicacy, finally, the decommissioning of maternity benefits for the first 6 months for more than 5,000 of our citizens today, our fellow citizens, with one debate that is much more important for the citizens of Croatia and this is a debate about ourselves. And I'm a little embarrassed, too. I'm ashamed that we're going to end our term the way we started it by discussing ourselves. We have begun our mandate with the Law on our Rights, and we will end our term of office with a debate on our rights. And in the meantime, nothing serious happened. And instead of really today, after various... The pressures, the amendments, the desires, we're discussing sharing maternity benefits in the first six months, to see if there's a way to de-distribute maternity benefits and in the other six months, we're dealing with this kind of ephermeric thing in the first reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the thing is so dramatic that the government held a phone session. It would be good for the Deputy Prime Minister to tell us what dramatic moments were during the term of this government that the government held phone sessions. This is one of those cases, I don't think there were many of them, maybe one three, four, it was when you took Liburni's lifra, so you pulled the decision, this is the other, and I don't know,... 1 third, so there were one 4.5 cases in a four-year phone session, this is a really dramatic debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I wonder what he's getting rid of? What's going on with that? What are we accomplishing today's debate? In the first reading?- I'm sorry. If this is so important, then we really need to change this order, perhaps we should have a second reading in the afternoon, or final bill. Here's the baby waiting one more afternoon, so let's discuss this afternoon in the final proposal, let's vote it out. Or if we don't get there, and we're going to call an extraordinary session on Saturday, because that's a really dramatic question at the end of our term. And let's finally vote it out. This will solve everything, we will solve as counterpart Stazic said all the affairs in this mandate. Finally, Croatian citizens will know what will happen to their property. Because this law speaks of the role of public enterprises in Croatia. What does the citizens of Croatia get as owners of these companies. They know what will happen to HEP, whether hep's role is to maximise profits or HEP has other roles. What will happen to the Croatian forests? Whether the Croatian forests are interested in maximising profits or in protecting Croatia's biodiversity, sustainable development, whether it has any social components etc., etc. That's what we're talking about today. We are solving the strategic issue of Croatia today. We're discussing again who can sit on the board of directors. But instead of that debate, we should have discussed perhaps what fellow Letica said about the role of the state in the company. Maybe we should have discussed something else. What's the role of the company's owner today? Does the owner have the sole and exclusive interest in profit or change in the role of ownership in companies? In particular, companies having a public interest, which, for example, quote on the stock exchange or companies in which the state has or local self-government has at least any share in ownership. We should have discussed a little more strongly a dozen days ago when the Law on Commercial Companies was changed in general on the role of the Supervisory Board in trade societies. Because this law hardly ignores that 10 days ago we changed the Company Commercial Society Act where we moved from a dualist model to a combined one. Therefore, companies may have a supervisory board and board of directors or may only have a board of directors. So perhaps today we could talk about whether companies owned by the Croatian state will have a supervisory board and board in the future or whether we will only have boards of directors. We don't discuss it. The statutes will change in the meantime. For example, we should have discussed the role of the owner of the state in these companies, not to talk about the fact that government officials can't sit anywhere. Because I can't accept the thesis that counterpart Niko Rebic said, maybe it refers to, maybe he's so perceptive of this government, I don't perceive it so, but he said this law is going to make the supervisory boards sit experts and not ministers, which means that ministers are not experts. Which means that's how Niko Rebic perceives his government. I don't see it that way. I think there should be experts sitting in the government, too. I think that state administration should be done by experts like the supervisory boards must have experts, as administrations should also be chaired by experts. Because that dilemma is completely wrong. We have determined that our goal is to remove someone from the Board of Supervisors. Okay, let's move. But where does that line stop? Is an official in some ministry at the Croatian Privatisation Fund more professional than the minister? Is he more responsible than the minister? Is he more reliable than the minister? Does he have time to sit on the board of directors? And instead of today's debate, maybe we should have discussed what with a large number of people who have so far been sitting on the supervisory boards of companies owned by state and ministers and state officials and officials and officials and clients, and clients from the clientele who sat on the supervisory boards just because she was getting good fees for working on the supervisory boards. What about the people who were sitting on surveillance boards where the state had majority ownership, and the companies went bankrupt? People are on the stock market today, property has changed, property has changed owners, bankruptcy is no longer state-owned, it's private, and sometimes even from those people sitting on boards. Tomorrow, these same people will sell themselves to us as experts sitting on boards. So I suggest that of course we all support this law. Who could not support such a law in the first reading of the last day of the Assembly session? So who's that? Even the government gathers to support it. But if we want to tell the citizens of Croatia we will care as the Croatian Parliament and the Government that we choose about your ownership in your interest then we must tell the citizens that we will care about it, we must say what we will do and only in the end must we tell who will do it. And not today we say no, they can't do that. But we don't know what I can't do. We don't know what the role of the board of supervisors is in society. We do not know what these representatives of the state, whoever they are, ministers or experts, must do on the Supervisory Board. We don't know who's giving the warrant or who the board member is with, whether he's a minister or an expert consulting. With the owner? Who's the owner he's gonna consult before he goes to the board meeting? In which the role of supervisory committees is very responsible in companies, very much, in stock companies. This law does not even distinguish stakeholders from a limited liability society where the role of supervisory committees is significantly different. It should therefore be said what is limited to companies' responsibilities, societies limited by responsibility in relation to supervisory committees in the stock companies. And then who's going to direct that? Who's gonna do some things? What happens when a supervisory board sets up an audit subcommittee and receives a negative report? What happens then? We don't have any answers here. We just know what we don't want. But we can't explain to the citizens what we're going to do for them to increase their family's silver and to keep that family silver cared for, polished and preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96413	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96414	Thank you, Mr. President. Two corrections to an incorrect quote. One, related to maternity benefits, and the other related to the quote of counterpart Nika Rebić. Well, first. We didn't push into the second delivery plan. In fact, here's our minister, here's the law, and we're not looking to discuss maternity benefits, but to double what this government has done to your government. Also extend maternity leave, which we have arranged. To do a maternity, adventurous supplement, which you didn't do. So we have it here, we did it, and it doesn't matter if or when we discuss it because we've already done it. On the other hand, when it comes to Niko Rebic, of course, the man did not mean that experts were not ministers. But he said it would be good to separate those two positions. And I admit that we don't have the kind of experts you and the ministers with who you are, who sat on 20 supervisory boards and made 15 billion debts to this country. And thank God we don't have such experts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96415	The second amendment, Vice-President of the House, respected representative Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96416	I'm correcting the assumption that this government has introduced so I understand that ministers and other officials are on board. In 1999, it was abolished in the Parliament that ministers could also be on boards, and then the coalition government came and introduced it again, for ministers and other officials to be on boards. And not a colleague of Bagaric's at 20, Deputy Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Coalition was on the 72th Supervisory Board. You know? That's not to get the wrong idea, it's not 27, it's 72. And the finance minister was in over 30 supervisory committees in the coalition government, so I don't know who you're sending those remarks to and who you're objecting to with regard to the involvement of officials in the supervisory committees. You've shown how successful it can be in 72 monitoring committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96417	Replica, the esteemed representative of Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96418	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's colleague Mršić, you're wondering what's been solved at the emergency phone session. It seems to me like this five minutes before this House was disbanded, that the issue of the future Sanader coalition, Adlesic, Friscic, was resolved because I see no other reason why this would be in debate today. And otherwise, as far as participation in the boards of directors is concerned, I am in any case in order for the state to control in the right way and through politicians the supervision of these companies that are owned by it, but in such a way that there is some kind of responsibility. I made a report to all state officials on boards, actually all of us state officials to file tax returns the way a colleague insisted in the Law of Conflict of Interest, to file our tax returns. None of us, in fact, most of us 90 percent didn't do it, so I made a proposal, actually asked the Commission to ask the IRS for our tax card. You know what the IRS said? That they don't give it away. And these tax cards would show who was in the supervisory boards, who was in charge of that, and I say that now there are at least 200 in Croatia who have received fees for participation in supervisory committees, and they should not have received it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96419	Replicate response, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96420	Well, we usually know the margin, more about the margin than about the content. So for me, it's not even so questionable if someone has received a fee or not received a fee. To me, the question is, what was the contents of his work? This is a technical question, and I think if he's willing, it can be done. So the Tax Administration can automatically forward all our tax cards to the Committee for Conflict of Interest or publish on the Internet for no reason whatsoever. However, the problem here is that thousands of people were sitting or still sitting in supervisory committees that weren't even government officials, receiving a fee that was higher than their salary, official salaries, for example in the Croatian Privatisation Fund or somewhere else, or being set up by someone else on a cliently basis on that supervisory board, and the result of their work was that this company was de facto almost programmed to go bankrupt so that those who brought him on behalf of the State on that supervisory board could then buy his property. Therefore, I have called here to really discuss the content of what should be the role of the Croatian Parliament, which is to take care of the interests of citizens and property of Croatia, not of counting because it is misspelled by 27 or 72, which is completely irrelevant and who is more in which the Supervisory Boards sat. There are cases where some have sat on a supervisory board so unsuccessfully that they have failed to read materials and have lost $10 million on each ship, but that is not the essence of the debate. We must finally go before the citizens and tell them how we will care for their property, what we will achieve at the end of our mandate and then determine who will do so on their behalf, or on the supervisory boards.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96421	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96422	In most things, I agree with you, so just because I have the impression that you spoke frankly and from the heart, I have two small questions. The first question is about the environment do you personally think that you can also be the Mayor of Koprivnica of a great successful city and parliamentary representative or should it be excluded from each other? And the second question, let's say that you in Koprivnica crashed one building, that part of the city had poisoned water and that a monument of culture collapsed, would you resign as Mr. Stazic did not dare answer that question?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96423	Replicate response, MP Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96424	So it's completely irrelevant that I think whether it can be mayor of Koprivnica and parliamentary representative, that's what the citizens in the elections said, in the local elections, I got only 72.8% and will now say in parliamentary elections I will run for parliamentary representative... Yes, yes, a list. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The HDZ list with the Deputy Prime Minister won 12%. ... No, not the entire HDZ list with the vice president got 12. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And secondly, I don't answer hypothetical questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96425	And distinguished representative Zeljko Pecek, replica three.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96426	Thank you very much. A fellow Mršić here sets up an interesting thesis on the left and right of this position where I stand. How the HSS and HSLS club submitted late in the procedure this proposal and how very unusual it is that we are literally the last day discussing it. So I want to remind you that we announced it seven months ago and a few months ago it was included in the agenda, but here we are discussing it today, so it's completely irrelevant as far as the promoter is concerned. I think that we should find an opportunity to adopt it in an urgent procedure, of course it depends on you, on me and on all the colleagues sitting here, because I think that we are not going to settle this issue by election, although voters will tell us about how it was managed in these supervisory committees. But on the day of the election, they will say this temporarily, because the law will allow these ministers and other state officials to be on the boards of directors again, so we will wait four years to change the law again. So I don't feel at all guilty that we're discussing the last day of it, but I don't think it's too late today if we want to make a move, and a good move to make it impossible by law for government officials to be supervisory committees is certainly a good move.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96427	I have a little explanation. This bill was sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament and was received on September 12th of this year, not six months ago, you handed it over on September 12th. I, when I scheduled the session, included it in the September 18th agenda when this final session of the Parliament was scheduled. So much for that. Reply to the replica, respected representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96428	Well, I was going to say, in part, that's exactly what I was going to say, so my colleague, Pecek and colleague Kramaric, signed the proposal on September 10th, and that it arrived to you on September 12th, and that this really went really fast. You know, we have some laws, and even the laws proposed by the HSS that have been waiting for 2 years, 3 years to come to order, and it won't come to the end of this House, such as the 0.0 bill that you're really up for. So we're really doing this in dramatic circumstances, and this is a dramatic situation that this law has to be passed, because I don't know what's going to happen. There may be a flood on Saturday, because if these ministers continue in this, I don't know what your position is, but by the way you did it urgently and the government turns out that if these ministers continue to manage Croatia's assets in... The Parliament and the Parliament may be a flood, but let's trust those ministers until at least the next election, and you and we and all who go to the elections can say what they're going to do in the next four years, so maybe someone will promise and say the ministers will sit on the boards and maybe the citizens will say okay, we will. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's let the citizens say the same thing in the election. I don't think this should be discussed, but I really think there are a lot more important things to discuss for the last one and a half days. One of these is quite certain and finally willful, I hope all of us, to share the compensation for the first six months. I hope we have the courage to vote in the afternoon, or tomorrow, that the other six months will be the share of maternity benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96429	The flood will not be, though the rain will come. Even though the election rains are coming, but the flood won't. Final Review, Proposer, Vice-President of the House Đurđa Adlešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96430	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, on behalf of HSS and HSLS clubs, I thank you for here a few hours of debate, and above all, if we have recorded correctly, all the clubs have supported the proposal of this Law. Of course, we have also accepted comments on how to make this law better and better, and by accepting such a proposal, I hope that we will really stop dealing with ourselves from the next term, because if it is true that so far we have talked 17 times about the rights and obligations of government officials, this is a good opportunity to get at least one part of this done and to admit that we are neither the smartest, the most capable, nor the almighty, but that we are neither thieves nor those who know how to manage the property of the state to work primarily as experts. It's true. The law is addressed to the procedure although I don't see why it is so important at the beginning of the 9th month, because you were able to vote on the conclusions if you happened to be in the Parliament in February. The conclusions that were actually looking for the same thing that the law now says. So it's not a new topic, it's very fast support for the profession, so economic colleges and Zagreb and Split, and then the river and the feel that actually helped us create this Law. If we had really had experts to match our assets by now, then we would certainly have avoided the numerous debates that were conducted here when an affair broke out, then the resignations of one minister, the second, third, Deputy Prime Minister, were discussed, for example, but we never wondered how much our debate cost. This is a chance to get off the agenda. I agree. The law cannot be passed today as well as other laws that are in the first reading of the last session, but this does not mean that such an obligation cannot be accepted. The HSS and HSLS clubs suggest that if, of course, you accept such a proposal, the next Government must implement the first step of depolitisation within 6 months of a new mandate by adopting such a law. Of course some may refuse to see themselves in such places, some may have other reasons, some will accept, in the end we will all be responsible for what we have done. It is certain that such a law also prevents rematchism, but also the syncures that have always come for payment sooner or later. I can't just say that for other political parties, it's certainly true for the parties who are legislators, but this is an opportunity, therefore, to end it together with this mandate. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96431	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Was it about regulations? Proposal for a law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials, first reading, is the proposed law by the clubs of HSLS and HSS representatives. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State is hereby adopted.". Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 127 votes in favour, 10 against and 2 abstentions of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96435	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representative, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is a great pleasure for you on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I present the Law, small on appearance, but I think you will all agree together much by what we do. We are closing one round, one big job that was set during this term of office for the family, related to mothers and, of course, related primarily to children. We are the measures we are going to talk about today, so in the amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act provided for in the national population policy document in which the Croatian Parliament adopted on a proposal from the Croatian Government last year. It is a series of measures that have long been worked by distinguished experts, doctors, but above all by our distinguished demographers, where I would like to point out the academic and vice president of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, Ms. Alicu Vethemer Balletić, Professor Gel, Akrap, Nejasmić and other dignitaries who are members of the Council for Population Policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. One of the measures that was provided for by this document I repeat adopted in this House of Commons is the measure we are talking about today. As you all know so far, for, we are talking about mandatory maternity leave the highest compensation that any employed mother could receive was 4 thousand 257 kuna and 28 June, regardless of what her income or what her salary was during the past period. At this point, this refers to 5 thousand 200 mothers in Croatia, so just over 20 thousand mothers or women who have given birth, and 5 thousand 200 have a higher salary than this limit so that there, and incomes or incomes limit, means 4 thousand 257 kuna and 28 limes. The government is at the beginning of my term and I will mention it in a few words, because I am repeating the closure of one cycle, one round in the term of office of our government, at the beginning of my term, since it was also one of the pillars of the Croatian government's programme, so one of the pillars is certainly a change in the negative demographic image. And all the measures that can help to make this negative direction that Croatia unfortunately took as quickly as possible change. We are therefore, at the beginning of the term of office, so in 2004, when the Croatian Parliament adopted a state budget because, as every government is known to be operating on the basis of the provisional budget or temporary financing, it means that when we adopted the budget we have already installed the first population measures in that budget. We, in effect, increased maternity benefits for both employees and unemployed mothers and extended the possibility of using maternity leave for unemployed mothers from six months to a year. We also returned the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave for twin mothers, three and more children, and this paid maternity leave at that time. I'll also remind you of some numbers. In fact, since the government has reduced birth benefits in the previous term, we have increased them in such a way that for the unemployed from 900 kuna we have increased to 1,000 kuna, and for employees up to 2,000 and 500 kuna, the amount of 600 to two and a half thousand kuna. I repeat that we have regained the possibility of using this three-year leave that has also been paid and, of course, it has been a possibility for each family to build its own small family population policy. In the first year of the term of office, therefore, in 2004 we included in the budget for the Ministry, in which I led, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which included funds and for the possibility of funding textbooks for families with eight and more children. So, since 2004, we have had all the students and primary and secondary schools of the family with eight and more children, since we assumed that their needs and the highest enabled free textbooks. Then we said when the financial opportunities of the budget are such that it is possible for all other children to prepare it as a new project. This has also entered the population policy, so the document. And as you know from this year we have provided free textbooks for all students, meaning not only for families with eight and more children but also for all students who are covered by compulsory schooling. We included free transportation and of course accommodation in the dormitories. Also, I repeat, this is a measure of the document that the population policy of this year, since January of this year, has changed a lot of things in the system of extras for children. In fact, we introduced three censors, allowed a larger number of children to receive around 60 thousand children’s allowance and what was also important to increase the child’s allowance. We also introduced the so-called so-called for the first time in Croatia. a optimal supplement of 500 kuna for each third and fourth children in the family who are in the child care system. This measure is already very good, ladies and gentlemen, since it makes life very much easier for families with more children. The analytical supplement is one of the measures proposed by the demographics that I mentioned, and I am sure that this measure will also produce certain results. Since January of this year, we have also increased the amount of one - time assistance received by each family or every mother or every child at birth as well. He may not know it all, but here, I'll say after a full 12 years of change. By January of this year, that amount was a thousand 360 kuna. So he hasn't changed in 12 years. We tied him to the budget base. It is now 70% of the budget base and amounts to 2 thousand 328 kuna and 20 limes. However, of course, as the budget base grows, this will also increase the amount of one-off aid. And I have to say that's exactly what we're thinking. It'll be safe in the next period and time to say maybe more about it, but that's one place around which here, we're doing some extra consulting. It is precisely this one - time assistance that we believe has to be increased even more, and there is enough space to help every family with a small child, every mother, but above all, every child born. Also, since January this year, we have tied the lowest birth benefits to the budget base. I find that important, too. So it's now the lowest maternity fee is 50% of the budget base. And as the budget base grows, so will the lowest birth benefits. That's especially important, ladies and gentlemen, respected MPs and MPs because of the unemployed mothers. So, I mentioned these few measures that we have implemented so far to support my claim that we, by proposing to de-distribute maternity benefits for the first six months, so at the time of mandatory maternity leave, end this one cycle that we've been working on for four years. I repeat, and this measure is provided for in the population policy in a document that has been adopted precisely in this House and based on the measures also envisaged for the next period and as you know for each measure is time and years, and the holders of that measure, so that none of it can be skipped or forgotten. We believe that there will also be a pebble in the mosaic that we agree on and we are trying to change the negative I would say a catastrophic demographic image in Croatia. Here, I've prepared and here's a graph that shows, we're following this line down here. It shows how many children are born in Croatia. As you can see, here in 2000, 2003, and then from the beginning and application of new measures, that line has been up. So in 2003, about 39,000 children, in 2005, for the sixth, we still don't have complete data, that's about 43,000. Therefore, these measures are repeated only stones in the mosaic. Learning from just the experts, the demographics and I learned first and foremost one important fact, which is that other countries that had similar fate, so that they met with a catastrophic demographic image and took a series of measures, also faced the fact that none of it produced great results in a short time. It is important to build a system, it is important to be consistent in this, it is important to build one measure on another, not to destroy the system but to slowly and patiently build again this mosaic that can ultimately give one different demographic picture of Croatia. Our goal, for example, is to raise the birth rate to about 50 thousand for the next three years, so that it approaches the zero rate of natural growth as the mortality rate ranges between 49,000 and 51,000. So that's that first little goal. We believe that this measure we are proposing to you today, so I repeat the decommissioning of maternity benefits for working mothers in the first six months. So, at a time when the six months are at home, they get their full salary no matter how much it was to give one incentive to young families to make up their mind for their children, that mothers can stay at home and we expect about 6% more families or more mothers to choose for their children in the following year. Since the first announcements of these changes, the reactions are very good and therefore they write concrete families, concrete women who say they will decide on a child. In fact, it's about the fact that many young families are in large loans around the apartment, about the car, about solving existential problems and that it doesn't matter if the wife has a salary I don't know five, six thousand, seven thousand, not to say nine thousand or ten, and that in the first six months then she falls to 4 thousand 257 kuna, but to receive full pay. For us to realise this measure according to the current calculations in the following year, we will separate for mandatory maternity leave an additional 105 million more, and it will probably be something more, and we will solve it with rebalancing if these 6% increases are achieved. And I'll tell you how many numbers we have so far, for example, in this year for mandatory maternity leave, we have allocated 700 million kuna, for additional maternity leave means for the other six months and for the unemployed mothers another 900 million kuna. Now it will be for mandatory therefore at least 800, 805 million kuna in the following year. Here, we've also made some small combinations. In 2003, 540 million kuna was allocated for compulsory maternity leave and 432 additional for unemployed mothers. So now we have an extra 900 million in this year and in 2003 it was 432 million. Of course we don't intend to stop at these measures. We have already prepared and let's say a special law, it is completely finished which, however, did not arrive for discussion at the Croatian Parliament. It is the Law on the Foundation of Croatia for Children. This foundation is also provided for in the population policy and it will be a foundation, it will be a law of course in the next meeting of the Croatian Assembly which will especially help poor families but especially gifted, talented children, children gifted athletes who often have parents and cannot finance in everything they want, of course children with health problems and severely ill children. However, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I would like to inform you that in the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity we are preparing and something that I think is particularly important highlighted and it is a unique regulation. So, one law that will cover the entire system, so also maternity benefits and compulsory maternity leave and additional maternity leave, and adoption leave, and salary benefits for the case of flexible use of working time, and parental leave until the 8th year of a child's life entitled to compensation, and parental leave is for the care of a seriously ill child and the remaining open issues related to this area because so far as you see it is scattered in several laws. That's one thing. And secondly, we think that by putting this whole system that is related to the family, to maternity leave, it opens up a new space in one place, and we will certainly find new opportunities here and financial and each other for new improvements ultimately only one thing and that is support for families, support for mothers and support for children. It's our constitutional obligation. Because the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia clearly states that the Constitution, in a special way, protects the family, protects children, protects young people and protects mothers. These are the provisions of the Constitution, they are mandatory for every government, for every convocation of the Croatian Assembly. I believe, I'm saying that this new regulation will also open new possibilities and if you want in the budget. Finally, because today we will be safe alone, we will get the support of all parliamentary political parties to change this regulation and correct one great injustice. I think I can say, here we are now and as a woman on behalf of all of us women in this assembly, therefore, and a representative in the Croatian Parliament, so all of us who, in some period of time, became mothers that it was always one critical period, so when a woman who works went on maternity leave, somehow the relationship of society was always like she was gone. And when he's never going back to his job again. With this step that I might call a small historical step, perhaps small for humanity, but a great indeed for future mothers, we are taking a truly important step forward. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, I call upon you, honourable MPs and MPs, to support these amendments and to supplement the law in an emergency procedure and to have, from 1 January 2008, working mothers in the first 6 months, therefore, in the time of mandatory maternity leave, have their first salary, and of the other six months, of course we are already thinking, we have... And I believe that's what next year's gonna get rid of. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96436	Thank you. The committees. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports? The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health? The president of the Committee, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96437	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, held at the 84th session of the Committee on 10 October 2007 discussed the proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 4 October 2007. The Committee discussed the Law as a home working body, in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the proposing representatives, the final draft law introduces one of the measures envisaged by national population policy by devising maternity benefits. It is a continuation of systematic family support that protects motherhood and strengthens family care and children. It is important to stress that these are not in any case campaign measures but the achievement of the adopted population programme and the next step provides for the establishment of a single system of maternity benefits. In the discussion, the Committee members claimed that, over the past period, consistent and persistent actions of demographic policy were taken to stop the overall negative demographic movements. The consequences are evident and for the first time an increase in the rate of newborn children was observed. In addition to the fact that life expectancy is increased, it is clear that the only long-term solution to address the negative effects of demographic ageing is consistent with the implementation of national population policy measures. The issue of unemployed mothers, volunteers, mothers working on a work contract also needs to be resolved and, at the head of equality, justice and social sensitivity, equalise maternity benefits throughout the period of maternity leave, which is of particular importance for promoting the natural renewal of the population. After a brief discussion, the members of the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96438	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we should include in the agenda a law, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Measurement, a European law that is important for those other laws to come into force that we have already adopted. So if there are any, do you agree to put that one on the agenda? Okay, along with the proposal for a decision to declare the Social Partnership Day, which you would today. Okay. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96439	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed Vice President of the Government, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. It is a pity that the government, under quotes, "has somehow remembered" this need at the last session of the Croatian Parliament. No, come on, it's better than never. And I would be incorrect if I did not admit that in this area of maternity benefits, or demographic policies, something was done and it is fair to say and it should be recognised by the Minister, i.e. the Croatian Parliament, the Government, etc.. Now the second question is, could the law have been passed before? He had to be brought in early. I don't believe it will encourage God to know what kind of demographic restoration we call it, giving birth, but the approach to egalitarianism,... As righteous as he may seem, in this case he was simply unsustainable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That had to change. In Croatia we have, we have heard on average about 5200 women who will feel the direct consequences of this Law, which will say that at this point they have more pay than these 4257 kuna and 28 limes. These women will, on average, receive more from these tables than under the existing Act of cca. 1654 kuna and 76 limes. So I speak on average. Personally, I believe that a woman, as a rule, can clearly be in maternity care here and a man, so when she goes to maternity care, she needs all the time of maternity leave, means all those 12 months get full pay and I am deeply convinced that it will not be long and that such a measure will also be supported in the Croatian Parliament. I think that would be fair. But I also want to make it clear that at this point, perhaps the Croatian problem number one is this demographic problem. We may be under-absorbing him, we may not see him enough, but in 5 to 10 years we will not have or will not face only the import of the workforce, not according to Cacic's criteria clearly, but we will also face the problem of preserving the pension sustainability of our funds. And I think that's going to be a five to ten year problem in the Croatian state. How to easily preserve this, these funds at the time of today's 1.38 workers coming to the 1st pensioner. Realistically, when we keep in mind those who single out those contributions to 1.1 workers, we have 1 pensioner. We hire all people who are currently unemployed somewhere around 270, 280 thousand would reach a height of 1.5:1 and that is a huge Croatian problem. But let's let it go now. This is the theme of maternity benefits and the slightest shift clearly should be supported. Although we all agree that's not enough. Simply in a way, the state will have to go out to meet the parents and somehow follow that child from start to end, because those who have children when they know how much of these complementary activities in those environments where children can be surrounded, dedicated to them, cost them, then simply and many representatives would be amazed. When it comes to these fees, well no one should be called out here in particular now by any government too consistent, no former, has extended its rights to students, has extended its rights to farmers, if I'm not mistaken, has unfortunately reduced these fundamentals. It may not be consistent enough for this government either because it is only now that it is going out with one of the most acceptable solutions that has a clear and pre-election message. However, whether this law has or does not have an election message, the law needs to be clearly improved. And now or tomorrow, when it comes into effect, I am deeply convinced that no government will be able to abolish, correct or otherwise reduce their rights. But the problem will remain regrettable when we talk about this demographic. The family benefit is certainly an important demographic measure. It's not the most important thing. Far more important measures are to see how to get to a permanent job. In this country about 85, maybe today and over 90% of people are employed for a certain time. The other problem, for all young families, is the apartment. Today, the square meter of apartment in our cities is from 1,000 to 2,000 euros on "moderate", under quotes, locations. The price is I'd say free schooling is very high for every parent. Safety of the workplace, I said. The standard to be monitored as time shifts the cost of life will inevitably be increased year after year, etc. So the fee is an important measure. But it's certainly just one of the measures concerning population policy or demographic policy. And this country will have to work hard in due course. It's an extremely long time to devote, because the problems we're going to face from year to year are going to get bigger and bigger. It is clear that this Mandatory Health Insurance Act should be supported and such an initiative should be welcomed, hoping that in the new meeting, some other MPs will vote for extension or extension and maternity benefits for all 12 months, i.e. to work on getting as much as possible from year to year as possible, not for some measures to be in place as we just had the opportunity to hear 12 or 13 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96440	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96441	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, in a series of incorrect allegations here, I'd fix at least one, two. One, his representative's claim that no government was, nor was this consistent, referring to the pre-election activities that were being introduced, referring to this Law as pre-election activities. I'd say that's not true, which is what the Minister said. Because since 2004, this government has since the beginning of its mandate, after bringing the National Population Policy and the Demographic Reconstruction Programme of Croatia, said for the employees and not, only the working mother increased the amount of 600 to 2 and a half thousand, returned maternity leave, 3 years with mothers who had given birth to the second, third and next child, the unemployed mother who gave birth to the first and second child was extended to maternity leave from 6 to 12 months, the birth benefits from 900 were raised to 1,000 and 600 kuna. And I'm not talking about all these measures that the Minister was talking about this year. So this government really works in one continuity and it's not true that this is now pre-election activity. So this is just one crumb of what this government has done in this past period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96442	Thank you. Second correction, a respected representative of Mirjana Brnadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96443	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I would refer to the allegations of fellow Caine, just like my colleague Caparin. So I would add, of course, that this is not just pre-election activity because this is the continuity of the activity this government has had since the beginning of 2004 until today. So I would just count some of the activities that were in 2005, because my colleague Caparin already said 2004. Therefore, the implementation of the project The Grants of free textbooks to children with, families with eight and more children has been continued, the number of births that exercise maternity leave and compensation rights compared to 2004, the number of cities in which NGOs' programmes are implemented with the support of the ministry, are intended for pregnant women, young parents, has been launched on the subject of a scientific research project "The Causes and Effects of Social Sterility in Croatia". In 2006, the award of free textbooks was continued. The monetary donation of children in multi-member families for Christmas continues to increase the number of birth benefits users, etc. etc. So one activity continuously systematic in order to implement the National Strategy, a population strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96444	Thank you. And a respected representative of Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96445	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct my fellow Caine's distasteful attitude. In fact, if anything isn't in the function of an election campaign, then that's exactly the measure. Mr. Kaja's children are neither made nor taken care of at a certain time, and at least in some kind of political campaign. It's true, if anything is long-term and if there's something we have to thank this minister here, then that's exactly the measure. It is amazing that something aimed at the development of this country in that essential sense, therefore, in the growth of the population in the new generations, that you consider it a pre-election campaign. Well, not that it's malpractice, it's really bad. Don't be mad.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96446	The HDZ representative club is a respected representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96447	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the Bill's proposal to supplement the Obligation Health Insurance Act with the Final Bill. A positive attitude towards family and children is really embedded in the culture of the Croatian people. I'm sorry that this assembly hall is half empty that this important, when we talk about such an important topic. National population policy shows that family support has a priority objective of empowering families in raising children starting with maternity leave to work with reduced working hours for child care, monthly cash benefits, single aids and tax reliefs. The government has been putting the family at the heart of political, cultural and social events since the start of its mandate. A number of systematic family support has been made to protect motherhood, help the family care, and children. In the first year of office, birth benefits were increased to the employee, only the working mother during the first year of birth leave from 1600 to 2 and a half thousand kuna. The employee and only the working mother who gave birth to twins, the third and every subsequent child is extended the right to use maternity leave from two to three years with the raise of birth benefits from 1100 to 1600 kuna. The possibility of using a three-year leave has been lifted by the former government, and 60 thousand women have found themselves in an unspeakable situation. One measure was to extend the birthright from 6 to 12 months to an unemployed mother who had given birth to a first or second child, and the birth benefits were raised from 900 to 1600 kuna. If she gave birth to twins, the third and the next children are guaranteed the right to compensation from 1600 kuna to the third year of life. So these are the measures this government has taken since its start of office. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity provides family benefits in the form of one-time cash aid for the equipment of the newborn child, which was raised to 70% of the budget base and for 2007 it is now 2 thousand 328 kuna and 20 limes. As the minister said after 12 years, it was done, and then it was 1360 kuna so far. It also introduced a promising supplement to the payee for the third and fourth children amounting to 500 kuna. In July of this year, this right was achieved for 66,000 741 children. The right to pay users an extra payment whose average monthly income per household member for the previous year is 50% of the budget base of 1663 kuna or less. Three income census were introduced to determine the individual amount of allowances for children. According to indicators for July 2007, the right to pay was achieved by 242 thousand 660 users for 465,000 71 children. In accordance with national population policy, all primary school students and first grade high school students were entitled to free textbooks, the right to free accommodation in student homes and transportation from home to school and back. Birth benefits are part of family benefits that play a vital role, but depend on economic development and financial opportunities. And this is related to financial opportunities, or for the first 6 months financing these maternity benefits is a matter of contribution and certainly the resolution of the other 6 months will be related to taxes or the state of the state of the state budget. The Croatian Democratic Community club has supported the decommissioning of maternity benefits during the first 6 months of leave for mothers who have a salary of the current limit of 4000 257 kuna. They are now 5 grand 280 while the fee for the first 6 months of leave receives 20 thousand 268 women. By applying this Act, the fee will be paid to the full wife in six months. The Croatian Democratic Community club is pleased with this further step in increasing the birth rate because about 6% of women with higher incomes are expected to decide on a child. That's supposed to be the case of research done. All of them are indicators of an increase in the number of newborns in one year. Let us remember in 2002, the number of births of some 39 thousand. In 2004, 40 thousand 282, and 2005 Forty thousand 474. The Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that the new positive measures will apply to the further development of the adoption of these measures and to mothers working with an act contract which also pays for contributions. Volunteers, unemployed mothers, women who have to protect their pregnancy. So it's a space for further action. The Croatian Democratic Community Club also believes that all of these positive measures that are once taken in this High House and in connection with family, mother and children will never be abolished again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96448	Thank you very much, colleague. Zdenka Chuhnil's next representative on behalf of the National Minorities Club. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96449	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Club supports the Law of Change and Supplements to Mandatory Health Insurance, in particular the normal part relating to the delimination for the first 6 months of maternity benefits. We certainly support any measure that leads to the protection of the child, the protection of young people, the protection of motherhood, the protection of the family by creating a more normal quality of their lives. The minister herself said that surely young families are burdened financially in all respects precisely in battle for a certain standard, or in a battle for housing and all that makes this very worthy life. So far, we have supported all the social, tax and economic measures that have affected population policy, or an improving demographic image, improving the birth rate. But I want to open another question here, and I really don't understand why we haven't dealt with it in four years when we're just talking about kids. My colleagues and colleagues, what about preschool? What about a one-year-old child when a mother has to start working until he's seven years old when she goes to school? We have wonderfully resolved the question now and in education, primary education dispensing the family already by having here and in this House, that is, during this conference we have given free students that we are trying to educate in high school as free as possible, i.e. for the time being at least the first classes we have disbursed. However, preschool education for a colleague and colleagues is left entirely to local self-government. No country in transition has thus left it to local self-government. The fact is that we oversee the quality of the breeder, that is, that it remains in the domain of the ministry, that we bring even pedagogical standards that have been the subject of preschool education these days. Unfortunately, we don't care when certain municipalities and cities don't open new kindergartens, even close them. Therefore, I think that, in the future, our programmes would have to be seriously incorporated into that segment. In fact, we're bound by the law that the counties are obliged to bring in a preschool education programme, but the rest is only on the law. We haven't been able to control how many counties this program has, and I have to tell you that there are very few. That the county reacts when some municipality is in financial difficulties when it comes to preschool education and kindergarten so close it. Yeah, lock him up. Instead of fighting the battle for the opening of kindergartens, we even allow kindergartens to close and believe that without that part that is missing in our complete child care system, from birth to school, to college, if we don't solve segments from the first year to the seventh year of the child, believe that there will still be a lot of parents who, with these 6 months of full pay and from those 12 months of maternity leave unfortunately won't decide to give birth to a second, third and I don't know which child. Why haven't we learned anything from other countries in transition? I have to tell you that one Hungary, and one Czech Republic cares about preschool education in such a way that the state pays the breeders, that it finances that segment of the breeder, but all the material costs and driving of kindergartens are in the care of the local self-government unit itself. It means building, maintaining kindergartens, creating standards for these kindergartens, caring for local self-government, but the number and quality of professional staff working with children is mostly concerned by the state and thus helping municipalities, cities, because let's not forget not all municipalities and all cities with the budget of one Zagreb, although the state here and in one Zagreb should play an important role in preschool education. How many kindergartens in the last 4, in the last 8 years in Croatia are open, no matter how often we joke about opening individual facilities pre-electionally, I would even be happy if kindergartens were opened pre-electionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96450	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up is representative Ivana Sučec the Trakoscan. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96451	Thank you, Madam Vice President. And here I am, even though I could talk about a lot of things beyond what was proposed by this law. I will limit myself to the agenda point, because now it is not a general debate on child care and the whole system, but it is a debate on maternity benefits and I will concentrate here on that part of population policy, which is not only declarative, but through all these budgets in these four years since this government has shown on duty that this is the priority of all priorities. I think that should continue to be a priority for these new old governments, which I hope will continue to do everything they've done in four years, but also for the general state policy at all levels, and for the consensus of us in this Chamber. And I'm surprised that my colleagues who had the most objections, therefore, that it improves the standard and status of young or other mothers, so the births, were first pronounced and they didn't even allow themselves to hear the comments of their speech, so they went out. And secondly, in this Chamber I see from all parties representatives of only three parties. So two colleagues from the SDP, one fellow national minority representative, everything else HDZ. So I'm sad to say, I apologize to Mrs. Vice-President not the Government, I'll make it right, I won't be confused, but for now still Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, so that's sad. So this topic that deserves much more attention is simply like a passing point, and in it the most negative is derived and not only tied to maternity but everything and everything that has nothing to do with it. So I'm going to say that as a mother, but also as a grandmother of three grandchildren, and I know very well the problems and young mothers, I'm interested in any possible change for the better, and of course I'm very real, too, that we live in the conditions of the default and possible, and that I expect that, in the next period, they will get rid of the additional 6 months with the full amount of wages of those women who have the right to do so, and I'm sure that in the 2008 budget, when the final proposal is made, they will find those few hundred million that are compared to some other costs for what we invest in materially, so to say negligible. I am sure, therefore, that in the Croatian state not only for the first 6 months those mothers who have a fee greater than 4000 200 and something kuna or 2 and a half for the other 6 months will receive their full salary and thus more and more women will decide to have children. Because while materially important, I must therefore warn all of us that the spiritual atmosphere that governs about whether someone with more or not children is worth it, too, is very important. So I'm on the side of those who think that every woman of us, and I, in the end, is worth as much as she gave birth to. So each woman is worth as much as the number of children she has and that positive climate. So, to say the celebration and the worship of women who have more children doesn't mean they have to sit at home and be screwed, but I'm going to say those great examples of women who are scientific workers, doctors of science, and they have 5 and more children. There are such examples in Croatia, but nobody knows about them, because it's not in the paper. There are only some extreme cases that do not show a cross-section or a larger population of our society. The larger population is the largest not only of Croatian societies but also of all developed Europe, regardless of the disintegration and disintegration of the family on all scales of value puts the family first. So, all the research of public opinion and the desires that people have, not what they've achieved but what they have, are crying out for their families to be born, to live in their families, and to have their family as basic, so that I can always say the point from which they will go, to which they will return and who will fulfill them and give them the opportunity and to make professional progress and to make, of course and materially more creative. So I'll say one more thing. That the government's policy must therefore take care of this material part that leads, it has shown itself. It has also been shown over the years that at the last exhibition, it means an increasing number of newborn children, unfortunately a growing number of deaths, so that number cannot be reached. But in absolute terms, we have the information that in the last three, four years in Croatia more and more children are born every year, so I expect that in 2008, this measure will not only take place for the first time on maternity leave but for those found on maternity leave, which is an additional number of these women who, perhaps some four, some five, and some only a month, will take advantage of this opportunity to get more compensation. But therefore, that the overall measures, and now that we've talked about preschool, agree with Mrs. Chuhnil, we must also take care of the working time of these institutions that exist. Therefore, if one kindergarten closes or all kindergartens in one city in four hours, then the question arises if a mother comes from work at five, where is she going with that child in those hours, that's really a question. And the question of all questions is our working time. We must therefore be aware that today, given the strong competition, in the pursuit of rapid success not only in the area of professional advancement but in the acquisition of material goods, we have the phenomenon that our young people, highly educated most of them, are working from to say, from eight to nine in the morning, until so much evening, work on Saturdays, carry a job on Sundays. And the question is, at all, when two young people are able to agree on it at all, not to say so and to realize this need for a child, because I assume that every normal being and people who are women needing to have children. So that's one question. And the second question, that famous question of that work on Sundays. So I hope that our government, which is the principle of this problem, which is aware of it, which takes care therefore of all those forces, so to say, that which affects this problem, is therefore also the interest of employers, the interest of employees, the interest of all social groups that are involved in that, and to whom life depends, therefore, some depend and spare time, so that one model will be found to reconcile all these common situations, and that then the greater number of women or men are free of work on Sundays, so that then there is a family of better quality and more socializing and being together. And I wouldn't like to read, so I've given myself a little effort, so I've been preparing this exhibit of mys, so I've looked at everything that I could find, and I wouldn't want to forget that today in all the newspapers there's news that it's going to be a bigger fee since January 1, 2008 and everyone's said hello. There are no portals and no newspapers that didn't say it was a good measure. But I also found and read the debate in the Croatian Parliament in March 2001, where on the same HDZ proposal, then and today HDZ proposes an increase, it was discussed how to find some 200 million in the next year I don't know how many years, to pay back, repeat, return because they were reduced to what HDZ had until 2000 to a thousand 600 kuna for the first 6 months and 2,000 500 kuna for the other 6 months. So where are those numbers and what are they? I'll just say in two rough comparative figures. Therefore, for additional and unemployment benefits from mothers from 2003 to 2007, more than 100% increase in the amount. He was $432 million in 2003. It's 900 million today. For mandatory maternity leave. Since 2003, therefore, since this government has therefore been as advocates to support it, more than 80% of the benefits have also been increased for compulsory maternity care. So 540 million came to over 700 million. So these numbers speak for themselves. The number of people who use it the same way. And now not to spread, all those other social groups like children, students with meaning longer, higher amounts of child support, with longer use opportunities. Where's all the other support? We even come to the point of saying that Croatia gives too much in the social community. I don't think that's too much. That every one who receives it is necessary to help you, and that everyone else is obliged, therefore, to give to him who is not able to do it. So in this case, let mothers stay with their children for as long as possible from those health problems. breast-feeding until one year. And in any case, I thank Mrs. Vice President, who explained it even wider than I did. I thank all of you who will support this law. And I'm sorry that more of our colleagues are not included in the proposals that we would improve the status of those to whom this small law with great, good consequences applies. And I wish you all a divorce in the pursuit that, even in the future of the Parliament, we are discussing for the good of the Croatian people, especially those who will drive on the roads, who will use all those buildings that we are building these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96452	Thank you very much, colleague. Although worldly dissension does not go under the corrections of incorrect allegations, I still have to react to the thesis that women are worth as much as they have children. I really think it's worth it to women who can't have children. And those who don't want to. We've got a few...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96453	Madam Vice President!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96455	I'm gonna do it again loud and clear, like I said. Article 209, 214 and all the other articles that say I think, so I Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec MP think, I didn't say that you, or anyone else, should think that, I think and repeat what I said, that every woman for me, and I heard that and so other people from other places who say so, so I don't have to quote some bishops, so my opinion is like that. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96456	All right. Of course you have the right to your opinion. I just kept you in charge of warning that other women were worth it. We have a few, we have one correction and a few replicas. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96457	I should probably give up now because Mrs. Sucjec-Thrakostanec has expressed her opinion, and I have to say like this, I have to say that it's an insult to all women, those who, for any reason, cannot have their children or, in any way, have to adopt, for those of us who have one child. There's more of us. And vice president of the government. So we're worth less than those who have three, four, five or more children. A statement like this is too scary. As a woman, I don't know how I could characterise it, but I really didn't expect to hear this debate coming from the mouth of a woman in this House at the end of 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96458	Thank you very much, colleague. I'm sorry I'm here. All right, we're not gonna qualify. Here, I do. Here you go, breach of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96459	I call again on all the articles that say first that you, Madam Vice President, cannot comment on my opinion. Second, she can't say what I didn't say. I'm just praising a smaller group of women who have children praised them. I didn't mean anything by another group of women or groups of women who aren't mothers. I didn't say words. Only one section of women I commended.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96460	Please, nice fellow, we're not gonna throw each other out of the bench, especially I'm calling on the non-collars. We've said different values, we're responsible for what we've said. Let's go to the replicas. Representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96461	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here's what my colleague Ivana said. I could agree most of the time. Indeed, it is necessary to encourage all measures that stimulate the most intelligent policy and see that such measures and deliver results, as shown by the number of children born. But I would refer to this controversial saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96462	I'm sorry, I... Did you answer the line? [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96463	Replica, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96464	Yeah, it lasts for a replica, because you're also registered for discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96465	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96466	All right, I'm just checking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96467	I also think that a colleague and I wish that were the case if she didn't literally think she appreciated women as much as she had children. I appreciate every woman as much as she has children. Normally, the one who has more needs to invest both effort and effort to raise these children, and I am truly very proud of them and full of praise. Because we know that even those women who can't have children have extraordinary suffering and I don't know what they'd give to have children, so I believe that this has been misinterpreted and wants to be misinterpreted with colleague Ivani, so I want it not to be made clear. So all these measures that are being taken and which I will further highlight in the debate give results, and this is seen in a short time to produce results, although it is known that this population policy is a policy that is continuous and comprehensive as this policy has been in these last four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96468	Thank you very much, colleague. We have an answer to the replica of representative Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96469	Yes, of course, there are several ways to talk about each subject. However, the worldview is something that determines our effective approach to a problem, and no one can tell anyone, so at least to me that appreciates every human being, I especially appreciate, of course, all the women I belong to, but motherhood is something that deserves special attention and mothers are one kind or group of women that I have commended for me and I will always need special care, especially respect, and this kind of statement as I have said, I repeat. Every mother who has one, more or two, three children or five is worth as much as my children have for me. And that's the difference again between mothers who have one or seven, eight. And I know a mother who has fourteen children, who is a beautiful woman, healthy, whose children are equally beautiful, highly educated. So I have the right to express my happiness that Croatia has such women who give birth to a lot of children and I as a woman, so respecting every human being, I repeat, no matter who it is, I especially celebrate today because this topic is that this narrow segment is being paid attention. And I especially celebrate Croatian mothers who give birth to children, not only today but also in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96470	Thank you very much. The next replica of counterpart Jagoda Martic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96471	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, with my replica, I would refer to this very statement from a colleague who said that about every woman is worth as many children as she has, or women who have children are more valuable. It is on the trail of statements that we have not long ago had the opportunity to hear from certain representatives of the church who literally said that dignity should be restored to the woman, and that dignity will be restored by the wife again taking over her basic role as mother and housewife. So, in other words, the hearth keepers. I find it inadmissible to evaluate a woman and her role in society. I also think that it is actually an insult to women because a woman is besides being a mother she has also very many of her functions and roles in today’s society, or in the time we live in today. Surely motherhood is the most beautiful and valuable thing that can happen in any woman's life. It's the most beautiful but not only for women but also for men who actually participate in this motherhood. However, we also know that there are especially many women today who unfortunately cannot have children for various reasons, so I can’t feel that joy. And so then I ask you what's wrong with these women. According to this statement of yours, they are meant to be less worthy of female beings. I don't think that's the way we can discuss and talk in the Parliament. Every man should be valued according to his basic human values and yet I say motherhood is just one of the roles in a woman's life and therefore again I am now saying what we of the SDP club often mentioned and respected this government we find inadmissible that it is simply the Law on medically assisted insemination to this day did not bring about and was actually four years ago ready for adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96472	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96473	... I'm not sure that a woman's dignity can be restored in a way that forces her to my choice. [[The speech room is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] So, a colleague wants all women to choose a choice from the SDP worldview. I don't want to. I'm fighting for every woman to have a choice so she'll choose whether she'll be a housewife, a cook, a science doctor, whether she'll be a politician, whether she'll be an actress. That every woman chooses not to be less valuable, just the one who is at home decides to be a woman who will have children, cook for them and wait for her husband and perhaps earn something on the Internet or that she will be less valuable than someone who is painted every day and may work less than she does but shows an illusion. So I don't want to make that subject that we all have to be equal. I want us to be different. So leave every woman to choose. And as far as women can't have children, I'm afraid. We're going back to my worldview that I believe in God. "Man's dream, God decides." So God will determine who can. I'm telling you that here, and you can't, you attack me again and for that. So I want women to choose with dignity what they will be in life when they choose to be supported by the government in those places where each woman finds herself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96474	Thank you very much. It would be good to go back to the law, but we have more replicas. Representative Ljubica Brdarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96475	Thank you. Without contesting anyone's right to think, I must say, however, that this statement that a woman is worth more than the more children she has given birth to is scandalous and offensive. I'm a mother of three, and I don't think I'm worth more than those who have one or two children or that I'm less valuable than those who have more. Having many children can also be an act of irresponsibility. If you have a 10-tero, 14-tero, or I don't know how many children you're going to cut off from others in the beginning, you won't be able to give them the right conditions of life, education and success in life you're irresponsible and not a good parent. And when we talk about motherhood, we'd have to remember, like Jagoda's colleague said, fathers without whom motherhood can't be and not challenge their right to participate in the whole story, and then we'd have to measure them through how many children they've got or haven't, whether they're worth it as a person or not. And let's remind our colleague and colleagues that there are people who can, and they don't want to have children, and I think that's their right, and that's why they shouldn't be considered bad. It's better not to have a child than to give birth to him and deny his love and everything else he needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96476	Thank you very much. Reply by representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96477	One sentence. Stubbornly throwing something into my mouth that I have three times explained that it is not so that I would like to interpret it and I think I have succeeded all but well that there is no one else on the other side, so to my colleague Brdarić, I ask my colleague Brdarić to read everything I said again in the phonogram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96478	Thank you very much. Maybe it'll help, I asked for a phonogram, but since we're doing a great job, I can get it in 20 minutes, so I'll read it to you then. ... I'm explaining as you don't have the right to throw yourself out of a coworker's bench. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's representative Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96479	So maybe this is how I could start a replica with something Mrs. Sudac-Trakostanec said through these answers to the replicas. I would say this, that it is not the duty of the state to wait for God to decide but, among other things, the duty to pass the law, or to propose a Law on Medical Aided Insemination, and then perhaps thousands of couples who, at this time in Croatia, are struggling to have a child, would be in a much more favourable position. However, what I would like to look back on in this replica, which is the part where the representative talked about the problem of actually young people, or practically young families, is the possibility of even designing a family and ultimately deciding to have children. I would, in this case, be troubled by the position of a woman in our society. It's not a little different out there, and that's why for a woman who's employed or wants to get a job, it means her decision to start a family and imagine having a child. And it seems to me that the state still doesn't seem enough to improve that position. In fact, we all know very well what women who work face, who decide to have children or get married and have children. So the problem of the employer's relationship with these women, the problem of moving, the problem of returning to work, and what I think is particularly important in Croatian society is that a man who has a family is treated differently compared to a woman who has a family. This shows you all relevant research. I say unfortunately not only in Croatia. Because for a man, family in the eyes of an employer means a certain stability, and in a woman it's actually a difficult circumstance because it immediately thinks about who's watching these kids, what if they get sick, what if this, what if they do? You recently had a chance...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96480	Thank you very much, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96481	Okay. Okay. But in that part, it seems to me that as a state, absolutely... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96482	Replicate response, representative of the Judge-Thrakostane.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96483	I'm not expanding the subject and I'm going back to this topic that's subject to the agenda, which is therefore maternity leave. My point is, I believe every reasonable woman, that there is no state that can and wants to have a child, to prevent her from having one. There isn't. Just like there's no country in the world that's going to order or force a woman who doesn't want to have a child, any measure at all, so we're coming back to freedom, so we're going to choose a woman. But I want to say next. That there is no such thing as medically assisted insemination, nor any more than any natural and healthy society that has all the help our Government gives, has helped the population policy, and I will not now return to one China that has tried to reduce the population at the end of all measures, and has failed to the extent that it was expected, and also the Croatian state in the opposite direction gives everything it can at the given time and in the current budget, so that it is possible for births and all those involved... and parents, because it is not said whether it is a woman or a man who is going to use maternity leave, means that it is possible for parents, with financial support and of course, with all that leads to this improvement of status, that I have agreed with you, that we should all work together not so hard to attack each other in the opinion but to give concrete suggestions that are available together, both in terms of working time and local and pre-destinations. And I'm sorry that no more colleagues I repeat, on the right, that I can make constructive proposals and not attack my worldview. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96484	Thank you very much, colleague. No more replicas. The next one was registered for debate by Slaven Letica. She's not in the hall. He's losing his word. The next representative is Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96485	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have been all morning discussing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Croatian officials, and then finally there was debate, there was a replica, and then a colleague from SDP Mršić asked himself what we are even discussing about these issues, that the matter of the supervisory committees is a very important issue and should certainly be done. But that basically encouraged me to say it because it shows the credibility of one policy and another policy. When it's politicized then we're discussions, replicas, and then we're here, when there's serious life issues, then we're gone and here's this whole middle row and there's three colleagues. But let me go back to this topic that is now on the agenda. This year, indeed, relevant indicators point to development in all areas. If we start from a gross social product, if we start from increasing the number of employment and unemployment which is the smallest in the last 10 years to entrepreneurial zones, building highways, halls and schools. But it's all needed and it's all good, but what do we do with all that if we don't have kids? That is why I think the question, the basic question for Croatia and for our society, is indeed to encourage the most innovative policy. And this was understood by this government and it has been doing it continuously, comprehensively since 2004. And the good minister said that these measures really need to be complemented all the time and not to bring them down. That this collapse results immediately, i.e. negative results show here also the Report on the natural movement of the population and the number of live births. In 1999, the number of live births was 45 thousand 179, 2000. 43 thousand 746 and when politics were immediately saved and first at birth, and I have to tell the state officials that the salaries fell and 20% to 30%, and we still haven't recovered from it. Then it immediately reflected on the number of live births. So we see that this number, it ended in 2003, was gradually shrinking and in 2003 it fell to 39 thousand 668 to make this all-intellectual policy and all the measures we've taken in the last 4 years, however, in 2005 this negative trend stopped and began to grow slowly and now we have the number of 42,000 492 live births in 2005. Here it is in the presentation, the minister presented a number of indicators and my colleagues in the previous debate, but I believe that these measures are very important, and I will repeat some of them anyway. That since 18 February 2004, birth benefits have been increased. And that's significantly increased, certainly, that they'd like to be bigger, but they're significantly increased. So, for a working and self-employed mother up to the first year of life, the birth benefits increased from 1600 to 2500, which is an increase of about 60%, that the working and self-employed mother with twins, the third and every subsequent child's maternity leave was returned from two years to three years again, but that the fee was also increased from 1100 to 1600. It's important here to tell about the unemployed mothers. I think they're in a special situation. And there was a significant shift that for the first and second children maternity leave extended from 6 to 12 months but also increased compensation from 900 to 1600 kuna as well as for the second and third children and twins to 1600 kuna. This, such an approach where the family is put into a priority position, and that it is the foundation of society as it is, was immediately shown on an additional maternity, maternity leave up to 1 year of child's life, where the number of users since 2004, when it was 16 thousand 673 rose immediately in 2005 to 18 thousand 81. Or maternity leave from 1 to 3 years of a child's life from 1826 to 6371, so these measures that have been taken are immediately good results and should be further upgraded and complemented. But certainly the most significant shift was achieved by a population policy that took effect whose measures came into force from 1 January, where we really have a number of good measures and necessary measures, to say only the most intelligent supplement for the third and fourth children, where here, there were users over 66 thousand not to mention the equipment for newborns. And again I would point out that it's really important for this neighborhood where I come from, and it's free textbooks, free transportation, free high school textbooks, free accommodation in dorms, it's really something that we remember now, when the school year starts, it was quite a headache how to settle all the obligations, and this is really one of the most important help. What I'd like to say is that, besides these measures, we'd like them to give more. Of course, other measures are important. Here the colleague spoke about the accommodation of children in kindergarten, it is certain that this is a matter of particular importance and that it should, and that kindergartens that represent a significant burden, financial burden on local self-government units need to find a way to solve them in even better ways. But certainly when it comes to employment, I think that there are measures that are little to apply to us and that would certainly make it easier for mothers to work. But it's a slippery working time, it's the possibility of part-time, it's the possibility of working at home, all these measures, I think it would certainly improve the position of young, young families, not only mothers but certainly fathers, because it's one family. And here I was, passing through, it got me the same thing, going one day at the market, then I heard one comment, says, well, everyone promises us, everyone promises us now before the election. And then I thought deeply about it all, and I can't, and some people promise, and some people really do carry out what they promise, and that's what all these indicators show is true. And I believe that everything, that I will certainly support this law in which now mothers who have had higher incomes will mean which, but those of 20 thousand 268 is 5 thousand and 200, that's not even a small number. That means 25% of them have so far had a limited fee in the first six months and certainly that's one good shift. And that in future time, I believe there will be money to make it 12 months. However, this measure will also require 9 million kunas in the next budget, which are certainly not funds to be ignored. But measures of policy as I said it myself are fundamentally our question. It's a matter of particular national importance. Of particular economic importance. Because already we're old society now have over 16.5% of people over 65 years of age, so every money invested this way is well invested, and I believe that it will continue and in the next term such good measures will give good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96486	Thank you very much, colleague. We have replicas. The first person to speak for the replica was a representative of the Church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96487	My colleagues and colleagues. And the SDP supports this proposal. However, I do want to say something to my colleagues that may not worry anyone at this time, but they will be very concerned about who is going to draw up a new budget, no matter what government it is or who it is. Namely, every single expenditure, when observed individually, and so does these expenditures that we're talking about find a lot of justification. But when the state expenditures of Croatia are looked at as a whole, then there is a problem. I'm saying next. No one knows how much this Parliament spent in advance. According to the current government's proposals in the last few months, especially weeks and not how many deficits we have predetermined for the next period. Of course, I will only mention family law, social care, foster care, disability, new pensioners, new employment in state services, transportation, textbooks, wages, wages, trade unions, sports halls and so on. The colleagues of each of these amounts including this one today have a meaning. But if it's put together in the budget, it's going to be a big problem. And one more sentence. The government has already failed to fulfil its obligations. Here we have solutions from a state body where they recognize debt and cost and issue a solution that the state should pay it and say that it will be done when there is money for it. I've never seen such a solution from a state body before. Why Tomorrow's Employers That they don't tell the workers that they're getting paid? [[Employee: A fellow representative please time!]] So we're taking care of the finances.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96488	Thank you very much. Would you like a reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96489	Thank you. Madam Vice President, I agree with my colleague, the Church, that we should take care of the state budget and everything. But as I said, and you will probably agree that this is of priority national but also economic importance for a country, the issue of the most intelligent policy. Therefore, no money has been spent in vain. In fact, I think the best money's been spent on these measures. If we need to save and save, then we need to find other sources where we can save and not save here. And in the end, I wouldn't want to say anything wrong, but you've been saving. Here you have reduced maternity benefits, reduced salaries to government officials, and we finally got a deficit of 6.3. We don't have it now. We had a budget rebalance for the first time where we had 5 billion so we could deploy to other funds. And I know, I work in health care, I work back then. And I'm running a health care facility, and I know we've always paid for the drugs on the road. Now we got the money for the first time that we paid. We weren't in advance. There are therefore positive developments and the least necessary is to save on the most intelligent policy. But we don't need anything else if we don't, if we don't have an increase. ... /Applause/ [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[- Insect: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96490	Thank you very much, colleague. Thank you very much. The next replica, representative of Arabovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96491	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I'd like to replicate to a colleague who said she heard, I don't know about the tram or anywhere, that it's an election promise. I think for four years in this House, we've been doing what we said we'd do in the campaign before entering our Parliament. And now we're doing what we didn't do. I think it's one small part that hasn't been done. And just the presence of 30 MPs currently in the Croatian Assembly gives me the right to say that this is a very good proposal. That it was made up to make it better completely... The only thing that bothers me is that they don't mention each other, I listen to a few discussions of parents men in it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because I don't see, I don't see any difference in raising my two children between me and my wife. The difference between my wife and mom. My mom had six kids, and I appreciate her the same way my mom does, my wife who has two kids. And I appreciate those who adopt. Let me give you an example: Mrs Leonarda Boban adopted four children. I admire that. So I pray that and in, as I was raised, that the children are raised by me and the woman in the same way and that we care about them. It means only because we men can't give birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96492	Thank you very much. Representative Lelic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96493	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I fully agree with you. Surely the father is just as important as the mother and we do, and we want both parents to participate in raising children and other household chores and other obligations that they are. And this would also look back on really this was our pre-election promise and we see that we have fully fulfilled it and that we are credible about it. That's exactly what I said in my presentation. One of them made promises, and then they did something else when they came. And the negative consequences I say we still feel. Here I know in health care, I mean we have reduced wages 20 to 30 percent and we can never recover from it. Always growing goes on what you had. When are you gonna get to that? And so. And what I think, is that, most of the time, I've answered these questions that... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96494	Thank you very much. Representative Bucan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96495	Well, here's what I'd like to do is I'd be referring to that part of my esteemed colleague's speech when she alluded to that sentence to honor all of us before the election. I remember Easter 2003 and a big article in the "Evening List" followed by a photo when the former President of the Parliament in the previous government visited a number of families and said: "I know that the reduction of parental, maternity benefits is a mistake of this government and I promise that we will correct it." Thank God that he was not in that position because what Mr. Churchvenac said would probably continue to be a deficit in national and national policy. That's why this government made a promise. This government has promised something before the elections, and this follows in its mandate, and this is a series of measures of the most intelligent and population policy throughout the entire term and this opportunity, and I am using this opportunity to thank both the Government and the competent Ministry and the Minister for the whole series of measures they have taken and which are in fact in some way, according to the latest statistical indicators, slowly but certainly correcting both the natal and demographic images of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96496	Thanks a lot, buddy. Representative Lelic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96497	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I totally agree with my colleague. When it comes to pre-election promises, we really need to be realistic and to promise what we can keep. And I know when it comes to something local, then we're really still coming up with, programs that will be in the future and that we can actually meet and how it was in the past. But I'd like to take another chance here to say something about material. We're all talking material here. It's really important materially. But it's not, in my court it's not the most important thing. Because I'm from a multi-member family. I was born that hungry year, and I can tell you that I had a happy childhood here. Today we think that the child is happy if we can give him everything, and possible toys, cell phones, and I don't know the mopeds and all that expensive, and he's neglecting that he can be happy in many families if he has warmth, warmth and love. In the end, it proves that the advanced countries that have a high gross social product certainly have those who are unhappy, who are unhappy, depressed and all together. I therefore consider these measures and interpret them as well as measures that give one family weight, that we care about family, that we want to strengthen them both in material and in any other respect, to send one such message. So I say these measures not only as material but as our message that our family is the foundation of society, as is essentially, and that we will do everything possible to strengthen this foundation of society and to develop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96498	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the promoter, we will be contacted by Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96499	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, the Honorable Madam Representatives and MPs. Well, I came forward after Mr. Representative Church's intervention so that maybe there wouldn't be anything left to ask as an open question or a misunderstanding not only for you in the Parliament, but for the representatives, but also for the public, right? In fact, Mr. Churchvenac said that I don't know, quote, because I wrote "... how much money has been spent in advance", referring to this bill as well as to other laws that the government has proposed, so probably here in the last year of the term of office. I want to say very clearly and loudly, I know that Mr. Churchvenac, since he was Minister of Finance, will understand what I'm talking about. It is known that it is accurate how much money is planned through the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament, which the Croatian Government has proposed, and even in the amendments and additions to this Act you mentioned Family Law, you mentioned civil servants and tenants. It is known because of the fact that we as government and each ministry individually had to make budget projections for the next three years. And in the budget projections for the next 3 years based on the results so far, I would also say based on the achievements so far, which means first of all introducing order into state finances exactly what to provide for the implementation of which law, or the implementation of which measures under the Government Programme should be ensured. So the funds are also provided for amending this Act, for limiting maternity benefits. In the first six months, we predicted 105 million kuna. It is therefore embedded in projections and will be incorporated into the budget for the next year when, after the government's constitution, the 2008 budget. But I repeat, budget projections have been made for the next three years. We took care of the finances. Now I'm going to remind you of the fact in the first year of office that we actually found one hole of six and a half billion. I'm sorry that we're diverting the debate from this important and important topic because we're talking about a better standard and a better life for a family where women are employed. So no, I refuse absolutely any insinuation that we want women who will just be born and probably sit at home at the hearth and cook turkey. No, we're talking about working women today, working mothers who we want to allow to plan our future the way they want to. If they want to have three children, then use a three-year maternity leave that's their business and their decision. Whether they want to be home for the first six months and get their full salary or not, that's their thing, the matter of their decision and the decisions of the whole family. But here we are, I'm sure I can say a new chance and a new opportunity. So, also in the amendments to the Family Law where, since Mr. Churchvenac mentioned, where we have given different support to families with one member, therefore to single-parent families, children who are not paid child support, where the state will jump in and pay children who are left without parental care. It's all included, it's all foreseen, because the budget is far better charged. As we have seen in the budget rebalancing and in all the other documents this House has brought about financing. And an increase in the salaries of civil servants and tenants. I'm afraid I have to finally say that here's what you mentioned to all the categories that the former government has been cutting wages, reducing the rights we've given back and fixing, and I don't think that's bad, that's good, and I'm glad that you said that it and the SDP will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96500	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Let's move on with the individual debate. Representative Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96501	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I also bow to all those who actually speak nicely of this Law. And I'm surprised and I'm showing my wonder and wonder to my people that there's no end to those who advocate women's rights, women's rights, for if you want freedom and equality, emancipation, let's call whatever we want, they don't come out here for a pay phone, and in the name of the club they don't support this law. Because if there is a law that supports, which in a certain way encourages between the rest and the rights and the independence of the woman, that is this Law. So honestly, thank you very much to the government. Congratulations, Madam President, on this fine law. I would now return, in fact, very briefly to the debate led by Mršić's absentee colleague and from there began. He's always qualified the previous point irrelevant, and this one super important. I agree with him that this one is super important. But I don't understand how he disappeared from the assembly when it comes to super important things. I mean, what happened to the man? Another thing I'd say is that the honor of the SDP today saved women here again. And really honest with the children, and I congratulate Mother also who bowed down, joined, and that the world remained on children. But it's good for women to stay, I hope they'll stay SDP on women. It'll be better than it is now. So, my colleague Mršić said that he abused me not knowing from my colleague Nika Rebić a quote when he spoke about the government, about experts and about ministers. So then he went on, very cleverly, I would say inadmissiblely that no one said that actually, I don't know some councils there should be led by experts, not ministers in a certain way, implying that no one thinks they're ministers. And I'd like to go back a little bit now, at the time of the coalition's rule when the government was run by experts. In fact, what it looked like when the government was run by experts. So when the government was run by experts, unemployment was higher than today. When the government was led by experts, foreign debt growth was big, huge, $15 billion. When the government was led by experts, impunity and crime were far, far greater and on the rise. The economic situation was much more difficult when the government was led by experts against the Constitutional Obligation towards children, according to the family, according to the youth, by all rights or by half, but today when the Government is led by ministers who are both professional people and respect the profession and when the Government leads among other things this portfolio, there is a present minister who has publicly stated here that she is in the making of this Law and making many other documents relating to population policy and similar documents, as she has included experts. Then those maternity benefits doubled. So they doubled, they secured maternity licenses, they secured the ultimate so-called. supplement, then not to talk about textbooks free of charge, transportation, etc. Therefore, it is a government that actually respects experts and works for the good of all. Therefore, once again support in this regard to the government in its efforts and efforts. I would briefly like to look back here and look back at the debate that my dear colleague Cain was having, which I don't know at this time, I was very sorry that he left now, but he was there, who was very much saying not to say vehemently about the problems of demographics in Croatia and I'm adhering to him, but I don't understand him. What a preamble. So he's talking about this problem, a few days ago he was talking about the problem, that is, issues of an interstate agreement between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, so to speak. The law on dual citizenship where he pointed out a terrible problem, which is that law, among other things, draws after itself and some kind of giving, and these duties are not given by God if some citizen of the Republic of Croatia from Bosnia and Herzegovina, I repeat not only Croatians are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, double citizens, only Croats, but also other nationalities, take some of these rights, and let's just say the family benefit mentioned here. And how can he take it? So it can be taken in a way that people have, that they have apartments and houses in Croatia and that they live occasionally here and there. Therefore, if we are really concerned about Croatia's demographic progress, then we must not be such a cynic and so petty that we are disturbed and that we do not mind if any other maternity compensation goes to someone who does not live, a Croatian citizen who is not constantly present at this time or is occasionally or one or another settled in the Republic of Croatia. When someone says it's pre-election rhetoric, and then we're like our HDZ here and my colleagues almost defend ourselves. Well, this isn't pre-election. So I'm removing that finding. Well, everything good we do is pre-election. Well, we live pre-election. By the time the election was over, we were in a pre-election campaign tomorrow. Well, that's our job. We promised, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it, we'll do it. Well, we promised this, too. So we do this among other things because we promised, because we have a responsibility to the people, to the state. Therefore, as far as I'm concerned, everyone has the right to call this and pre-election. To me, this absolutely doesn't diminish the value of this because someone said it was pre-election, because anything good done can be attached to it by an epithet of pre-election, so as God's sake, take it away from it. I absolutely disagree with that. When it comes to it, I'd be done with it. When it comes to my dear colleague Mršić and here, the non-existent SDP colleagues who are so concerned about the most important policy and then disappear. So that doesn't apply to present colleagues here and I congratulate them on their presence. I'd say final. Mrsica and the SDP sea of ultimate concerns, but he has more important work to do and he doesn't get to talk about them. Mršić knows that this important issue the government has experts and now has a free dream of its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96502	I can't comment on the replicas. Representative Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96503	Thank you. He's a colleague of the Bagarics. The SDP Club said its opinion on the demining of maternity benefits for the first 6 months, first I have to mention something very rarely mentioned here, in the national family policy adopted here in this House if I am not mistaken in 2002, and it was drawn among other things by the Alimentary Fund and the demining of the poridical fees for the first 6 months, so the SDP Club in 2004 referred to the Bill Proposal, the one that today comes out here before us and which we are discussing here today. So the SDP club gave its opinion on the need to de-distribute maternity benefits for the first 6 months in 2004. You'll excuse me, but I have to remind you if you don't know what the government said back then to the SDP club. So this is how the Government said, that accepting the proposed amendments to the law would favor primarily those births that have significantly higher salaries than usual, with the fact that even now, even then, the fourth applicable limit of salary compensation of 4 thousand 250 kuna per month, so that this is already greater than the average salary then. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is of the opinion that the proposed law would not achieve the objective of fostering a innovative policy, therefore more effective measures to extend the right to a greater number of persons, etc. Therefore, it is also said that during 2004, the Government will propose amendments to the Health Insurance Act, which will fully regulate the rights and obligations of insured persons, etc., etc. Therefore, a colleague of the SDP club came out with this SDP Bill and Club proposal about three and a half years ago now that the government has taken over the proposal, of course, to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96504	Thank you very much. Representative Bagarić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96505	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A very short answer. Dear fellow, I will only read you two parallel values, or figures. In 2003, therefore, compulsory maternity allowances amounted to HRK 544 million. The additional maternity and unemployed mothers were 432 million kunas. In 2007, seven hundred million kunas are mandatory. So they're almost doubled. The extras for unemployed mothers are 900 million kunas, so more than double. So 544 versus 700, and 432 to 900. That best speaks of what your position is on this issue, which is ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96506	Please, nice. Thank you very much. The next replica is the representative of the Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96507	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Bagaric said that during experts in the past government, debt grew very fast and that it is now shrinking or slowing down. This is often used by different non-accurate expressions, because there is a very large difference whether they are shrinking or slowing down etc. Mr. Bagaric! I'm correcting or I could've fixed it, but I'm giving you the next line. Be love. In Financial bulletin number 128, you can read in the total table H that foreign debt was received at 31 billion euros this summer. In doing so, in the last three and a half years, since 2004, he has grown as much as in the last seven years. What are these accounts and numbers that you're using? I'd like to hear that argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96508	Thank you very much. Representative Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96509	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I'm not going to, so there's no intention with an economics professor to impose himself in numbers because I respect that, I respect that and I know that he knows absolutely more about the economy than I do. But if he's lying to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn, my dear professor. Despite the war and all the evils that hit Croatia, HDZ government had as much as I remember $10 billion in debt Nine billion dollars in debt. [[- Intruder: Nine.]] You've made another fifteen in four years. Or sixteen. [[Intruder: Sixteen.]] All right. This government can't stop, it can't stop a locomotive, a red locomotive like that, but it can slow it down. So this government is slowing her down and it's the only thing left for now. In the next term, however, we will stop him completely. We'll stop the red locomotive.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96510	Thank you very much. The next replica of Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96511	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So the first part of my replica, that's already said by fellow Sobol who said basically what the SDP's opinion was on this subject, when we proposed a law that the government simply refused. But now there's something else I'd like to say. In total, some statistics indicate that some 55,000 women are using maternity benefits today. And according to these indicators, this law will cover about 5,000 and 200. So these are the women who had paid more than that limit before going on maternity leave. However, the question now arises for those other six months in which women who were still on maternity leave should receive a salary of about 2,000 kuna. The government has promised to limit it recently, but it has given up. These women are somewhere around 7 grand 600. So women who have salaries are actually higher than those 2,000 kunas. And surely now the question is that with these other six months when children are bigger, both needs and financial obligations are automatically much greater. What I wanted to say. Sure that any measure that will contribute to the standard will improve citizens' standards, everyone will be smart to support and support. But what it seems to me is that it's actually all done in some way, this government does it in a verse without some real vision. Because that's exactly what it shows here, this ratio that is actually if it's 55,000 women, of which only 7 thousand 600 women have received more than 2 thousand 500 kuna. Then it shows the state of our society and the standard of our citizens. And without the systematic resolution and improvement of standards, there are certainly no longer longer more positive measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96512	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, MP Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96513	Well, very briefly. I repeat, the numbers speak the most. So they're just ruthless, too. Compare maternity benefits, compare everything in your time and compare it today. Compare eventually both GDP and economic growth then and today. Therefore, Croatia is thanking God with a safe step, and thanks to the economic growth and progress of this country, we single out these funds for the benefit of maternity and encourage the most innovative policy in this way. Of course we're doing exactly the opposite of you, and we're so happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96514	Thank you very much. The replica was also reported by representative Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96515	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague! You were talking about the importance of this law. This law is really important. However, counterpart Mršić, who was so busy this morning, advocated that this law came in the morning for debate and spoke of its importance today, left the assembly. However, if he had known there was going to be a television broadcast, I believe that at least half an hour would have stayed in this Assembly... Why is this law important? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because these women were indeed discriminated against and they were cut off in their incomes. It's also psychological to help women like that, to choose a new child as intellectuals. And if this was a pre-election trick, I don't really know how many times we've said in this Assembly Hall that since 2004, this government has been carrying out the measures of an intelligent policy, and the figures that are truly ruthless and the investments that this government has made since 2003 for additional maternity leave and for unemployed mothers are 400 million kuna, and 2007. 900 million kuna. So it is really a reflection of a continuous work during the term of office of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96516	Representative Bagarić's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96517	Yes, fellow Members, I agree completely, but when it comes to fellow Mršić, you and I know that Mršić knows that HDZ has the experts for this and he is now free to dream his most intelligent dream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96518	Thank you very much, colleague. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, called for an answer to the MPs. Here you go, Madam Vice President!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96519	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Just one little intervention so it wouldn't be misread. In fact, Mrs. Martic mentioned 56,000 if I wasn't wrong about women. Well, if we could get to that number, then that would be great. Namely, it is and you see it in the light of the law on 20 thousand 268 users of mandatory leave. Of which 5 grand 200 that have a salary greater than this limit we're talking about today. And we, I said, will try to get all these measures to the number 50 or 56 thousand women who are going to decide on a child but it's still a long way to do a lot of things. Otherwise, out of the total number of births, about 50% are employed by the 50% employed, so 5 thousand 200 has a salary higher than the limit. Here, I had a need to clarify that then in the course of the debate, no wrong figures would be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96520	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The next one was a registered representative of the Crown of Peronja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96521	Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian Deputy Prime Minister. Indeed, this proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act with the final proposal for a law is a small change with great effect and very big consequences that will take place after the entry into force of this law from 1 January 2008. Very sensitive issues. The complexity is how to encourage and encourage natural growth, as it has been found in the last three years, that it is in fact uncontestable that the long-term limitation of this amount of salary paid during mandatory maternity leave has just one negative impact on the decision of young people to start and expand the family. The Croatian Government, but also this Croatian Parliament is one of the logic, one excellent and school-based example of how to access law in the first place, and confirmed this through the first adoption of the National Population Policy and how certain objectives and the National Population Policy with a number of employees and self-employed users of compulsory maternity leave will best be achieved. Also using studies, research from Akrap and associates who are the factors of demographic movements in the Republic of Croatia, so Raboteg and Saric are single-parent families, who are personal experiences and attitudes of the environment to the last Akrap and Chipin "Social Sterility in Croatia", why we are single and single is just the crown of such a previous procedure in this proposal of today's law. There is no dilemma, this has been confirmed by so far co-rapporteurs that this law, the bill of law, will be passed unanimously. In the language of the figures, it is easy to compare this with that in 2003 of 544 million compulsory maternity leave, that in 2007 compulsory maternity leave amounts to 700 million kuna, as well as additional maternity and unemployed mothers in 2003 from 432 million to additional and unemployed mothers paying maternity benefits in 2007 is 900 million kuna. It is precisely the data that will strengthen the material safety of birth and the entire family. In fact, fathers too will be proud to be able to benefit from their love and childbirth and the whole family. I believe that this is a complete modern analysis and modern approach in order to really eliminate existing restrictions and to increase and encourage those who have decided to increase the number of children. That's why it doesn't have to be too long. The law has been passed, or proposed by law, which is at the end of good research, good analysis and good projecting. So if there's a minus in 2008 I believe that like each of us, there's a little minus on the current account, this is going to have a positive impact on our demographic image. Therefore, any praise to the Croatian Government, our vice president who has made the promises, has indeed come true in full, as well as to the Croatian Parliament, which has confirmed the dynamics of its work by passing numerous laws after a thorough and wide debate. So I repeat, I hope that this bill will be unanimously and fully passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96522	Thank you very much, colleague. Next is MP Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96523	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I am very pleased to support the adoption of a supplement of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, which will devise maternity benefits in the first six months. This law is indeed one in a series that this government has adopted to improve the birth rate without which the future of the state is problematic. The measures so far have already brought a significant improvement, which is evident from the statistical indicators. As much as the previous government has reduced the rights to mothers, the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader has pointed to a series of laws that are important in increasing the birth rate of Croats. Deliminating maternity benefits for the first six months will certainly affect the easier decision of a large number of young families to give birth. Now we have 5 thousand 200 users means mandatory maternity leave or a quarter of the total number of users, which is 20 thousand 268 people. It is also necessary to mention the measures so far. In the first year of the term of office of the government, birth benefits were increased. I know it bothers me, but I like to do it again. Some of them are in the way. We re-introduced the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave that the former government abolished, a comprehensive national population policy was adopted last year, the minimum birth benefit is linked to the budget base, so 50% of the budget base. A single aid for newborn equipment with a thousand 360 kunas has almost doubled to 2 thousand 328 kuna 20 limes. A child's allowance has been increased, an innovative 500 kuna supplement has been introduced, students have free textbooks, free transportation to schools, and it is only one part of those decisions and measures taken by this government. All these measures clearly send a message to take care of family, children, and parents. That's very important to me. It's also important because of one favourable climate, the atmosphere in society. Let's say, let's set an example. Here, these measures also encouraged some cities to support and financially help newborn children or parents. Here, the town of Valpovo provides such one financial support but this is one positive atmosphere, a favourable climate. Here are the associations and I know the community of HDZ women, Katarina Zrinski in Valpovo, to give her support in her own way but also the community of women in other towns of Osijek-Baranja County. I would like to say that this government, and throughout its mandate, has contributed greatly to the social empowerment of families, children, young people and persons with disabilities, and family centres have been built. And since I'm an economist, I like to back it up, so I'm going to say that the separation for family, children and youth in 2003 is a total of 5 million 883 thousand, 2007. 66 million 524 thousand, the difference is 60 million, 641 thousand, index, interesting index, 1130.78. These financial indicators are not surprising because for this government the family is at the centre, and the interest of state policy, and in addition this government has also established a special ministry called the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. I think that when the government sets up a ministry like this, you can see what the priority is and what it thinks is important. This, in addition to this Act, amounts to €9.5 million or 105 million a year. And it should not be forgotten that such a huge increase in investment in population policy is possible because of the excellent macroeconomic indicators achieved by this government, gross domestic product, industrial production, tourism. And of course, such a law, therefore, means are provided and I believe that such an uphill, excellent economic trend will be possible in the future and further increase in compensation for young families. In the end, I have no doubt that representatives in the Croatian Parliament will give support and recognition not only to this law but also to all efforts by this Government to improve the state of birth in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96524	Thank you very much. One correction to an incorrect quote, Agent Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96525	I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that a colleague was talking about the amounts that the former government and the current government had set aside for the needs of families and children, and I don't know what you're all in, so it turns out that the ratio is 5 million to 60 million. Then I'll dare say that neither government has done anything or done anything. And where, then, is the allowance for children who passed the government for 2003 worth a billion 632 million 865 thousand kuna and this government in 2007 is an increase of 200 million. And you're talking about some 5 million over 60 million over 60 million, very dangerous because... Manipulations, you don't say exactly what projects you've been thinking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In view of that, it is quite incomparable because this government has broken up with a series of projects that the former government had and started some others.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96526	Thank you very much, colleague. The following is the debated representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96527	I thank the respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. All those who have supported the proposal for a law supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act with the Final Proposal of the Law and I join. And I'd say that, just the nature of my job, I've been directed by my entire working life and it's not so small, 30 years and some years working with women mothers and working with women employees. And for that very reason I am not unknown, I know better all their problems, all their aspirations, all their expectations and their desires. And I would return to 2003, the beginning of this government's mandate when you sent a good signal and a good message in which this government will go in the direction of establishing and establishing the Ministry itself, family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. I think just how much you care about your family, how much you care about the Croatian family, and how much you have shown how much you will be working on your family during this term, how much it will be in the focus of your interest and how much it will focus on your actions. I think that you have just recognized the fundamental and major problem in our society, and this is the problem that the Croatian family has been hit, that the Croatian family is unstable, that the Croatian family is unstable, that the Croatian family, I would say sometimes a little hopeless and the causes which would be very much discussed, should be a special debate that would analyse all the factors that have led to such a situation in the Croatian family. And all of these measures that you once again met us, Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister during your opening presentation, have made it clear to us how many and how many measures you have protected the Croatian family during this term. I'd say specifically protect the more sensitive part of the family and it's mother and children. You also protected the mother who was happier in life and gave birth to a healthy child as well as the mother who was less happy in her life and gave birth to a disabled child. You've also protected an employee, you've also protected the mother who's the mother of a primary school student, who's the mother of a high school student. And in this way you simply showed that the Croatian family requires special attention and that the establishment of this ministry is very, very good, it has produced fruit and shown good results. And I hope that what came from the left-hand side may have come in a way that we will do with the loose debts that have been set up to help the Croatian family, helping mothers and helping children. I hope that you will, on your own, call this government, better put this option all these "debts" and settle, the debts under the quote, and that you will go on and perhaps in the next session just think about establishing and singleing out only the Ministry of the Family as a fundamental unit that requires really special attention. I hope... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And this is exactly where I'm not going to list all the positive shifts that have been made. My colleagues and colleagues have done it and repeated it on several occasions in this presentation and of course we support this and all those mothers who are willing to work and give birth, they have the possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96528	Thank you very much, colleague. No more individual applications. Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96529	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I want to thank you for your discussion. I would like to thank all of you who will vote to support the amendment and addition of the Health Insurance Act and thus make it possible from 1 January 2008 to share maternity benefits for the first 6 months. So at the time of mandatory maternity leave. What I also want to say because here, in some ways in some discussions, there have been words about, and these changes, and this measure, as some social measure, I want to make it clear that the Government considers these are not social measures. That investing in a family, in children, in mothers who take care of children is not a social issue, but above all an economic issue, and we believe that it is primarily an investment in the economy. Because all those kids we're talking about today will work tomorrow, tomorrow will make money, tomorrow will contribute to Croatia's improvement, and of course there will be those who will return and loans to the highways and all the other projects that we admire. So that's a first-class economic issue. It's also a first-class national issue. I don't think there's a problem with that. That's ladies and gentlemen a couple of excellencies and a political question. So politics is determined because we here who are both representatives of the government and you MPs and representatives of the representatives of different policy options decide on projects. Therefore, it is evidence that it is a first-class political issue. It is a strategic issue, of course, because every conversation about people who are going to run the country tomorrow, about people who are going to grow up from children we're talking about today is a strategic issue for all of Croatia and for all of us. We talked a lot about working mothers today. So I said that about 50% of the women they gave birth to were working mothers. And we wanted to show our respect for all mothers who work and thus contribute to the creation of total social income. And, of course, they have obligations to the family, according to the house, do very often a number of jobs. So it's said in the people that they're holding three, and sometimes I'd say four corners in the house. For the government, however, there remains a major issue of unemployed mothers. Not only according to the Constitution, each mother is equally valuable and equally important according to both human and God’s laws. Every woman is equally valuable and equally important. Every mother is equally valuable and equally important. And for the next period it remains to complete this big project because I said that we are working on one whole law, on a single whole system that will balance everything in terms of maternity benefits, maternity leave, parental leave, parental obligations. It's necessary and important because I repeat myself as a state and we as a government must have an absolutely equal relationship with every woman, every mother. That's what's waiting for us in the future. I already said that we as government are working on it. It'll be the projects we'll be talking about I believe in this assembly and next year. And, of course, because today it was about working mothers who receive compensation that we are deeply aware of and the fact that today about 60% do not, among the unemployed, make women and that all documents, in all projections, in everything that we are going to do today and tomorrow. However, I end up believing that this decision today, and I believe that it will be unanimous because it represents one significant step in the future, one significant step I said at the beginning may even in a kind of way be a historic step because we will allow the employees of mothers to live with dignity and dignity. The way they deserve it, because they'll be able to plan their own life, their own family and their own future the way they want it to be. Of course, without a single thought, at one point, the state intervenes in any way. That the state in any way expects something from someone. It's just the opening of one new door. I believe it will be well received, that it will be well welcomed. Of course, through all this we expect more families to choose for children. But the first goal and the most important goal is actually to correct an injustice against the working women. Which they have given extremely much in creating general good, and I think in this way that debt or at least one part of the debt we pay them back. Thank you very much again and thank you for supporting the amendments and additions to this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96530	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. No more reports. We're closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96531	We will not vote on the proposal for a Law on Legal Assistance. Let's take it in a row. Final proposal of the Act supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Unanimity with 114 votes for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96532	Points 18 and 19 are discussed on the Committees and we are waiting for the report so we ask that we start with the 20th item of the agenda, (a) and (b) a joint discussion: - (a) a report on the work of the HRT Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law in the HR and HTV programmes in the period from 20 September 2006 to 3 September 2007; - (b) a report by the HRT Directorate on the business of HRT for 2006 in accordance with Article 19. The Law on HRT to the Croatian Parliament has been submitted to the following reports which you received by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received their reports at the session. Do the promoters want to further explain the proposal or should we start to discuss it? Oh, no? Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. We can start a club debate. The first is club IDS representative Damir Cain. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96533	Honorable Madam Vice President, esteemed Director, esteemed Mr. MPs. We have a report on HRT's work ahead of us. I got a little bit caught up in it because I was expecting the principal's address. But this is how we start. This Law, above all, on the election of a council, needs to be amended urgently, it needs to be revised urgently. What we have is just a laugh. In a way, it will be uplifting members who will, politically at some point, set a job for one of the two strongest parties. Here we are. I was just listening to the news yesterday. He says these six members are agreed between the SDP and HDZ. Who will be a member of the Croatian Radio Television Council tomorrow. The question arises, and why does Croatian broadcasting simply have a division like this, on one or the other? Well, because they probably know their employers will be from one party or another the next. So current employees, bosses, editors, etc. They're playing it safe. However, Croatia is neither just HDZ nor SDP. Croatia is one plural community. But that plurality of thought unfortunately does not have the right of citizenship in Croatian broadcasting. I would like them to show us which of the parties is how many times during this election year, only this election year was on Croatian TV, or who of us received a minute on Croatian radio. If we saw that minute, I think a lot of things would be much clearer. Today, unfortunately, and that's what I'm trying to say, we've got reporters of this or those events. You know exactly who's gonna do the job for this or that. It is not available on other Croatian televisions and should be fought against. Just as we should also fight to buy a minute on Croatian TV. That's exactly what you should be afraid of most. In one word we should be afraid of God that the next day Croatia's radiotelevision is being trafficked under the quotes "political party". Croatian broadcasting must not be a political factor ahead of the elections. If Croatia were in some way a unstable country, then I wouldn't mind if we ran a liberal policy. I must not know how to define even the highest factors in this country from President Mesic and beyond. On page 2. Generally now on the work of the Council of Croatian Radio Television, such a title is said to advise the Director of the Council, the Director of Croatia, I guess, television and persons responsible for the production of the programme in relation to the implementation of the principle of obligations of established laws under the exercise of the competition, the procedure is appointed and resolved by the Director-General of HRT, the Director-General of HTV, Croatian Radio, Croatian and Music Production, according to the competition or the tender procedure, and, on a proposal from the Director-General of HR, that is, the Director of HTV appointed the Director of the Programme of the Main Editor of the Information Programme, gives an opinion in the programme orientations of the radio and television programme, etc., etc. What I can't forgive the authorities is why the 3rd channel had to be privatized. I think it was 100% wrong until today, and I think I'm relatively well informed, I don't know how much money that 3rd channel is privatized for. When the Croatian nation, to be cynical, to make a joke, so good as to get along with the shares then let's privatize Croatia's broadcasting. Of course, I was joking. It would be crazy if you did. But it was also kind of crazy when the 3rd channel of Croatian broadcasting was privatized in this country. Instead of privatizing television, we could have privatized the Vjesnik. The first thing to do now is to save the Vesnik is to lay some groundwork so that it can even exist and I am against the clear today to privatise the journalistic institution. Croatian broadcasting is also a big business. Many on Croatian television make a great living. It doesn't matter, even I'll say that at this point about 3 hundreds of people on Croatian television have higher incomes than Croatian ministers. The point is that Croatia's broadcasting budget is about 1 billion kuna for 2006, and 958 million kuna is being made from the subscription. What if that "tax" under quotes, or a fee as we call it overnight? Croatian broadcasting would not have lasted in that scheme for 60 days. If so, it would be fair to share at least 1/5 of that money of 950 and so many million kunas with all the radio, or other private or not, any television houses. It is clear that this will not happen again in Croatia. And if they don't, then we'll have state television. And since two parties are being exchanged in power as we know them, then they will consciously prefer to the future policy of one or other political options. And that's the point. Croatian Radio Television in 2006 earned 411.8 million kuna. The index is 8% compared to 2005. The income is probably not proportional to the impact of Croatian broadcasting itself. Now comes the election. Probably on that basis this year's income will be 50 maybe 70, 80 million kuna more. However, all revenues from political parties, and I want to say that this opportunity is also less than the revenues of NGOs, B.a.b.e., GONG, etc. They have a much bigger budget than the IDS budget. Much bigger, twice as big. And so on. So, let's break this illusion that only the parties are doing great, either in the face of Croatian broadcasting, or in the face of associations, or I don't know the capital or the executive authorities themselves. What I personally advocate, clearly, is that Pulski, Rijeka Studies get one more suitable technique. But some other time. For salaries on Croatian radio TV, there are 276.2 million kunas. For wages on music production or production there are 18.4 million kunas. Payments on general joint transactions go to 77.8 million kuna, for salaries on the radio 101.8 million kuna. So for wages, almost 700 million kuna. Understandably, there are contributions. True, 3 000 597 workers are currently working on Croatian radio television. It's a 2006 number. In general business, 17%. Almost 620 people. There's a question of what 620 people are doing there. On the radio there are 20% 730 employees, in music production 5% of them 166, on TV 58% 2 thousand 85. From that in the radio stations from Pula to Dubrovnik, from Zadar up to Osijek I counted that I do not know, maybe I miscalculated it somewhere around 250 people. If that is the way to strengthen these centres, we weaken Zagreb and the higher quality of these regional programmes. On page 98, it is stated that 153.8 million kuna or one tenth of Croatia's broadcasting revenues are being paid for external production. If we look at how much that is compared to pay, so that's over 20% of the total income of what's left for one free-distribution of a higher-than-explanation program. I say, it's huge money. If television shows of this kind are seen, I don't know about Pyramid, then it's probably worth investing in money. If these shows haven't been watched, then that practice should be reconsidered. A lot of people would say this is about money laundering. Clearly, when we talk about money laundering, it applies only to people who are in politics. For others, to be cynical, it's not worth it, but yet it's clearly the easiest thing to call politicians, and to show yourself as a rule by the sacrifice of this or that policy, and that's the same thing to say. On page 69, here is more or less the information that I was talking about how many plans, the number of workers, indices, etc., I'm not going to talk a lot more about it, but I'm going to say that the donation for the other cells is only 28.4 million kunas higher than that television subscription that raises nearly 950 million kuna. This information should increase the height of some pluralism, the height of objectivity, the height of some survival of a multiparty in Croatia. This one-sided thing that we have, I don't know two options, bipularisation that is created may be good for spiritual peace on Croatian radio, but it's not good for Croatia as well. And that's why this amount for these other cells needs to be increased, whether it's going to be a fifth, whether it's going to be one tenth now, let's agree on that, but these 3% that go from that amount of 950 million kuna, a total of 28.4 million kuna, that's clearly something none of those cells will refuse, but in some ways underestimation I would say that pluralism that should also in this economic information sense grow in the Republic of Croatia. In one word, what we have, such a relationship is not fair. For the end, I do not know I will be abstentioned according to this report and I will drain Croatia's radiotelevision towards the objectivity it should achieve in monitoring these elections. It's a huge task, and that's why I think this debate will help not to be encouraged, not to prefer anyone, but simply to rule that principle over everyone equally and equally justly.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96534	Thank you, dear fellow Cain. On behalf of the HSLS club, dear colleague Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96535	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor... My colleagues and colleagues. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] The pessimist would say that there's a little bit of us, an optimist that the glass is half full, but we have to admit that this debate comes into one very, very, very good timing, and I think we really need to talk about some things here honestly. It is no longer those routine reports, but indeed the report that is coming I say at this time for which we are all more or less particularly sensitized and we don't care how Croatian television, this most powerful electronic medium, is going to place the media in Croatia against what is waiting for us. I can certainly be this cynical now so let's just talk about some other times when we didn't have the same positions, when some fought for the threshold and even suggested that the threshold be only 3% and so far at which 10, 15 years when... the relevant political party or one of the most relevant then about this sort of thing expensive what my colleague Cain and I are saying may seem to them to be such a slightly naive approach to the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's exactly what she said I commended consistency, it was long written and most often we're not inclined to admit that we represented in the '92s, '93. One attitude, and then in 2007, because things have changed a little bit, we're representing some different attitudes. I was always running away from it, and I was just about done, it's always uncomfortable for me to teach someone else his job, and even when I might have had personal problems and with maybe some attitudes, comments that didn't fit my sense of reality, and I always thought everyone had the right to make a mistake, so even journalists have the right to make a mistake. And journalists have their beliefs, and they have to have their own beliefs, and that's good, but just because they're doing such a job, it's always good to be discreet to suspend and really improve this professionalism that I'm actually allowing them to have, that they also have against all players of the political game. Unfortunately, we have a very different situation and this situation is becoming dramatic and confusing. Perhaps the bipularisation of the Croatian political scene is our future, even one. I'm also, I'm saying maybe, I said condicionally, even one party president who's not on the left or on the right, but somewhere in the middle says it might be our future. I let her think so. Maybe it's even legitimate. It can really happen, but right now it's not that kind of situation, reality is something else. The Croatian political scene doesn't even have that aglosaxon tradition. I'm not going to be a Republican, or a Democrats, but I really think that the Croatian political spectrum is even richer. And if that's the case, if the citizens admit it, then so do we, who are sitting here, who are asking for Croatian television to behave as well. It cannot falsify the political will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But unfortunately, it happens. That's what's going on. And I would ask those who once were in a position to really fight to survive, to fight for their right to vote, and someone created that political space for them to have their own right to vote, to say now that what is happening is not good. That it's dangerous. It's also dangerous for political but life in this country. But unfortunately it's almost back one seven, eight years it's becoming a practice and we're rebelling. But until we get hit on the head and those who now think it's good, I don't think it's gonna change any more. But unfortunately, we have to realize that Croatian television is at least public television, that it is party or two-party TV and that it really is systematically working on it and nothing is done to anyone. ... The left and right sides of this Parliament are respected. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's, it wants to look so very nice... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Vujić! I know, you're the same, I know when here, when there were people here who suggested that the threshold be 3%. There were people sitting here proposing that the electoral threshold be 3%. ... SDP. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The SDP suggested that it be a 3% threshold. But that's exactly what I don't blame. And... what my colleague Jurjevic will make right, but it is true, it is true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's written down. It's not me now, manipulating you or the public. But it's not that, it's your right to want a man to survive politically. He has the right to survive. I also thought then that social democracy, even though it was impregnated and even if it was in some way made up, was a little bit old, that it should be on the Croatian political scene. ... And they took votes from you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I wouldn't want this to go into a joke. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What my colleague Cain used to say first, and I...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96536	Just keep up the good work, that's what's going on, so the people will hear. Just keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96537	No, I believe the people will hear. And my colleague Arlovic wouldn't be doing this right now if I didn't believe in the people you know. The people are still much more politically written than we think sometimes, even when we manage to deceive them. You know, it's no small thing if all my political life I don't know moves between two political options, then what people see on TV think it's true. That's a fact. If you really systematically repeat that you're playing that card, kill yourself, then that map will be... Well thank God because the citizens of the city of Osijek have always proved something more politically wise than some other parts of Croatia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I'd go back to this if that political reality should respect me and that's good. So I'm saying, normally, in that context, the context of respecting reality if we stand up for it, if we stand for it right here, for this subtle approach, so that we don't really allow ourselves to have a third handicap race. It's the most tragic thing and something that's actually the most dangerous. That's why I always say, in fake games, I wouldn't want to be a winner. You know what fake games are. Games that anyway. Same here. What counterpart Caine said for a little while was the same thing. The problem of decentralisation, if we are in favour of decentralisation, means that all these powers, ingenuity and financial capacities are down to as low a level as possible, this should be worth about Croatia's television, that just next to Zagreb there are some centres where they have the right to create both their programme and their vision of the world. That he must feel it. I think it's 3% that it's too small. That's what we last said, since my colleague Vujic was a culture minister we warned him about precisely that aspect of decentralisation, regionalization that is just necessary and that in some way... In fact, Croatia's development, Croatian tradition, Croatian past. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those are the facts. Zagreb was never Paris and had no weight that had no Paris for the development of France. And that's how it is. Not because that's why I'm not happy or unhappy. But that's a fact. If we ignore it, then you'll also have these autonomic movements and regional movements. You'll have exactly something that even with our tradition has nothing to do with it, because people aren't stupid. People aren't stupid. And right now, whether that history of ours was more or less happy, it's, about what we can't do here, it's not... But we have to respect that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must accept it and watch what awaits us in the process of globalisation. How are we going to get to that exact identity... I've asked here a hundred times what Croatian identity is? When colleagues from the HNS offered it as a anger, as a solution to all these problems. That would be very good. But we forget that we've had three great literature on three parts, three dialects: a hammer, a caucus, and this rat. So what's the '36 Claw? The year is written in his "Balads of Petrice Kerempuha" and what is his relationship to Gaius? He couldn't come up with it because he just had a Croatian tradition thrown out the window. We can say that it was in some function, that it was a good anticiption, but also allow that it might not have been a good anticiption. No one can claim that literature written on horseshit is better than this one at waiting and cacasity. Somebody tell me that, and then we can open up that controversy. It was one decision, a political decision, a Vienna deal and everything that was going on there... which was in some context again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's a context and we accept it as well. That today these two traditions are what we see as something that's out there. But it's not the dominant, it's not the main stream of Croatian culture. But that's not how it had to be. But that's not the case, then the Croatian tradition must take care of it. It's this Americanization, the Hollywoodization, that's some, and we say it's a window into the world, that it's actually another raiser, that it's even a bigger teacher than the real teachers and teachers at school. But what's in it for us? It was also interesting to see how much it actually invests, doesn't invest in these Pyramids, millionaires, etc., where good money is spinning and making good money, and then they're still giving these people moral lessons. My colleague Letica is in her famous book, which is actually the Bible, which should be called by the Parliament, so what about who thought and who agreed, moral virtues should be spoken very quietly, almost whispered. And not that anyone here, from this pay phone or anyone else, has the right to give us moral lessons. The same hundred times I opened the question of TV subscriptions. If some television is public and, by the way, it's commercial, there's commercials, and there's commercials that last five, six minutes and more within an hour, as long as it just makes sense. That's not on the BBC. You can't have commercials and a TV subscription on BBC. You have to decide what will be commercial or less commercial television. But all of us live it all, we pay it all, and then we're still expected to actually accept it without any comment. Here comes this change of ideas because the rules are changing before this election. First, missed. There is no constitutional, constitutionally no basis for this change but it is again an attempt at a diversion and again in the function of bipolarising the Croatian political scene. Guys, it forgets when we break up tomorrow we're tomorrow, fiction is zero, we're all political parties. The Constitution does not know the category of parliamentary party. There's no parliamentary party, we're all political parties but we wouldn't scribble, we'd leave it to the publisher. the editor that he determines who he will call in what time, so my colleague Djapic and I will get around one and two hours and someone will get about eight, nine, half ten etc. Well, you can't do that. And that here we're clapping and saying it's very good and that we support it. Well, it won't work. And it's not going to work. I don't think it's going to work either. My Zagorians are smart people, especially when they're impregnated with other such minority genes, they don't work out. That's why I'm saying it, that's why it's the whole thing. I just don't have a monopoly on the truth, I don't want to be around, I know that every single one of us is a totalitarian. It's nice especially when you have power, then it's just showing up. That's not why Aristotle said, "Give the man power, you'll see what he's like."you won't be able to judge before that. It's all very clear to me. But on behalf of some time or weather, that is exactly what we should remember to be correct toward ourselves. "The crows don't take their eyes out."so we here too, the principle of solidarity would have to be in this House a dominant principle that we understand that who would be worse if they could be down there, that the situation could change, not that we were looking for. So it turns out the best thing was at the time of the OSCE when they measured how many people had minutes, that it was actually. This way, when you leave it to the arbitrary will of the publisher, to oil the editor, to oil the press, then you have what you have. Then you have one harsh bipolarization which is a falsification of Croatian political reality, which does not correspond at all and then would be. No rude questions, but the most common question is who you'll be with after the election. So what matters is that you verify your own program, your own ideas, and then it's possible to see what's optimal, what are optimal solutions that don't necessarily have commercial elements in them. Unfortunately, it's almost becoming normal. This is an abnormal behavior, one actually deviating behavior here wants to be declared normal behavior and then it is required that you are actually a statement and thus actually contribute to further deepening the bipolarization of the Croatian political scene. And I don't think it matches either left or right, or HDZ or SDP, but it's precisely that the little political in Croatia, the substance that exists to disappear. I'm full of cases of confrontations of images, not programs, virtualities, not reality. I'd like to see what really are the real type of economic and economic programme, and development programs. I don't see it, I only see images and stories about not knowing watches or stories about things that really have nothing to do with the Croatian political reality and that don't solve any important Croatian political, economic, cultural, educational or other problem. So also, here's fellow Sutlico, who we gave here is really because I was as deeply convinced as I was of fellow Galic that it was primarily a professional, about a man who knows his job, who is above all... Man by definition, to do everything in his power as director to really introduce such rules of the game that will not lead us to any vote at all, that every voice in Croatian political life has the right and its public to be heard on Croatian television and to let the citizens raise their hands or not raise their hands, and not to actually create such an ambience that will actually work on Croatia to find themselves in the situation of America or England. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm saying, with neither the American nor the English political tradition, it doesn't matter. In that very sense, all that is written is well written, all that stands. That's, the reports are always correct. ... to be financially. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's exactly what I'm talking about. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But this is the point. The point is that we really see what is political and how we will determine ourselves and that then those who win can actually have that sense of satisfaction rather than being winners in a fake game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96538	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote by the esteemed colleague Jurjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96539	Well, counterpart Kramaric said, quote, "Croatian radio-television is a two-party television.". I want to correct that assumption because it is not right for me, starting with the fact that the Council of Croatian Television is not party at all to say so modeled. In a previous assembly of parliaments during the coalition government, a decision was made that politicians should leave the council. If this is the council that takes care of the policies being conducted, it is really hard for me to say that she is bipartisan, and that colleague Kramaric who entered this SDP Parliament is particularly aware of that. ... MR. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] SC. MATO ARLOVIĆ: Are the debates in the circles over? They did. On behalf of the SDP club, dear colleague Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96540	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will immediately say that on behalf of the SDP Club we will support this report because it primarily refers to a period in which we have not yet sought those changes and those qualities that we are now looking for with a new period. So, this is the period before the events that took place on television in the last elections of the personnel structure, which has therefore enthroned Mr. Vanju Sutlic, the prominent head director of television and the procedure that has already been resolved in some way and the whole team that will therefore lead probably not the most interesting media, but also the most responsible factor in the development of democracy in Croatia. In this sense, we in this House have in the last four years been through many discussions and many to say many conflicts that are in a more or less quality way, today we have heard some extremely unquality ways of discussing the perspectives of television. He's got some serious and inconclusive opinions. They are all completely legitimate, but what we can say next is and what is important is undermining the meaning of our entire engagement, which is that from the adoption of the Law on Croatian Radio-Television to so many times of crisis that it has gone through, which the reports have gone through to say the obstructions that for this report, in a positive sense, it has been voiced that it has been in some synergy and in some cases when debated from it. We have come to an end, however, that in fact I will not be relatively universal because there are large differences in this, but in any case responsibility supports the course in the hope that television will therefore be what we expect it to be. And she's already what, she's already what should be promoted but she's still so different from everything else. It is the only medium, I underline the only medium that is not only owned by the Republic of Croatia but is at the same time structured in a way of managing to express the public interest of the Republic of Croatia. And unlike privatising everything there is in the media space, we managed to preserve all of us together, the authorities, the opposition and the various co-existences of different authorities and the opposition as if to say one quality of Croatia by which it is comparatively viewed in relation to other countries and relatively high quality. By which it stands out from saying so to those countries where even public television is a means of hunting different stakeholders, different social and other objectives. This has been a great task, and I think this House must now, at the end of this term, congratulate itself on its success. And when I say that, I think I'm sorry to express myself a little bit and personally, so I'm including the greatest critics of what was on television, including critics of the law itself. It has been shown that this law can establish a relatively neutral body that will try to hold television as one relatively neutral technology in many interested interests as neutral technology in which different political positions are represented and through which they compete in an equal manner. Of course, this ideal can be viewed from its point of view and not satisfied in certain details but the fact that public television may be the only medium at this time in Croatia, we are talking about these larger media that has no intention of representing this or that social, political, professional or other position. This is an exceptional quality that has been achieved and I can express that the SDP as a whole is satisfied, I especially that this law has preserved television and that it will probably now need to improve in one perspective a whole series of elements that have become current in the meantime, which were previously not current in order to get an even more adequate way of functioning this radio-television system. Without such a public media, Croatia is to say empty space. She's a paper, an unwritten map on which anyone can draw whatever they want. However, thanks to television, certain interests cannot be placed as key interests, and with all our criticisms, it can earn a positive assessment and thus also its report, which primarily covers the report of the earlier administration, I think we can accept. What we must do is in one positive sense that all that has been heard as a criticism is an integral part of its progress. One part of the critics as we had the chance to hear it criticized from both left and right and up and down different elements. I wouldn't agree with a lot of things, but with the idea and the goal of public television being as much public as I would agree. Therefore, normal judgment parameters and normal parameters should be built to show what is better and what is worse. They're possible. In our opinion at this point, television is faced with a special aspect of privatisation that has not happened to it. When Mr. Cain talks about that he shouldn't have sold the third program, then it's not a criticism addressed to this television because they didn't want it. That's the criticism sent to Europe because that's what they wanted. So let's not talk about what doesn't belong to the problem of television. We're talking about what belongs to the problem of television. The problem is therefore now related to how to improve the public aspect of TV's activities. The idea that 10% of the costs go to foreign production is something I welcome. It's a television obligation for public television to provide production from 10% external sources. So what we heard here earlier as a criticism falls under her legal obligations. Maybe it doesn't make it the most qualitative way, it's the second question and it always will be, there will always be differences in these issues. What seems to me to be the main problem, which is one specific aspect of how I say the microprivatisation of Croatian broadcasting, in which a phenomenon actually occurs, and that is that, in public space, in public media, in the media that are in, as it used to be spoken in social property, we will now say in public ownership. And where the Parliament is overseeing, as a result, not some employer body, but some other body to appear to be phenomena to say the abuse of that space in the sense that individuals are taking over the role of being judges of the country's overall political processes. Over the selection of individuals who will participate in something and so on. But I would also not view this issue as a question of the intention of television, but I would view it as a question of saying the state of television in which it is likely to strengthen the position of further professionalism on that television to resolve these issues. I don't... not critics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Critics yes, but not to say so... which would have, which would have resulted in the exclusion of those who, as I say, had opportunities and made you know the contributions and the authorial contributions to this development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have a report in front of us that refers to a period in front of this administration. We know a lot of things. There's a lot of things management knows. They're in the end line and the promises she made. Here it is necessary to implement, train TV for new ones to say the challenges of new ones so as to say the technological forms of presentation of public television. And so I think the Parliament can gladly accept this report and this time after a long time, even I suppose a majority unanimously. And let me finish before the end just to warn the following, and that is because in earlier discussions here I heard how to say this kind of vote around the HRT Council goes in favour of some bifurcation of the political body in Croatia I have to say when it comes to part of the electoral law where the powers of presentation, or proposing candidates refer to the opposition, were then not done by any SDP but were done by the joint SDP, HSNS, HSLS, and others had the opportunity to report. However, they were not active in this regard. When it comes to IDS, I don't know who they were talking to or talking to as far as I can see, at least Mr. Cain himself, it couldn't be said that he wasn't present enough on television. I'm sorry I ended this debate with a case like this. But since I think we have a serious report in front of us and the problems that have gone well, then I would suggest that this report be accepted, which the SDP club supports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96541	Thank you, dear colleague Vujic. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, dear colleague Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96542	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear principal, colleagues and colleagues. If I came from a general finding that the Council of Croatian Radio Television has fulfilled its basic task because they have satisfied the interests of the public at national and local level with their programmes, and have maintained the proper representation of information, cultural, educational and entertainment content, I could certainly say without further ado, that I support this report. Equally, I will agree with many of his findings that Croatian progress has been made on HRT. Unfortunately, I have the misfortune or luck that I belong to the very 10% of the population, or I belong to national minorities who, unfortunately, cannot assess this progress that way. In fact, the laws of the Republic of Croatia also provide certain rights to national minorities within the framework of positive discrimination, which the Council should follow through its supervisory function, which are also the rights stemming from the Law on Croatian Television, Article 5(4) and (5), because I am not only talking about national minorities but also Croats outside the country where television should certainly take care of the implementation of these laws adopted by this Parliament. Unfortunately, not a single word in this report stands here about these programs. And we have persistently all three, that is, four years in this term, warned that we are not asking for much, that we are only asking for the respect of the laws that have been passed in Parliament, that we are only looking for what we may have had until the 1990s, and that is the little information in the languages of the national minorities. Finally, let us not forget that the Republic of Croatia is a signator of conventions, charters, ultimately and the Charter of the Protection of Regional and Minority Languages, to say also in the basic law of Article 18, it is said that Radiotelevision, i.e. the media, is also electronic media at the state, regional, local level, that they are obliged to produce and broadcast emissions in minority languages. We pointed out on several occasions that this particular segment was not satisfied. On several occasions, we sought the return of chronicles in minority languages. Even more advice for national minorities as the highest minority body in the Republic of Croatia has singled out certain funds at the heart of the cultural creation of national minorities to help educate journalists in minority languages. Unfortunately, the press has passed the education. Journalists are on HRT as far as I know and employees. But from chronicles to today, there's nothing. We've been since '92. For years, we've been talking about a magazine called Prizma, which is true, and I've said from this phone booth several times that it's a good magazine, but it's a show that reports most of what minorities do. But there are no minority languages there. Or there are traces of them, and you never know if you'll be in Prizma and hear what minority language. Therefore, by analysing what was done in that part and starting even from us having a representative at the HRT Council who unfortunately tried to impose these issues on several occasions failed. And I must say that the National Minority Club will not support this report. I say, although we tend to the fact that public television is really more public, that it's democratic, that we can't really talk about the outside influence that we've talked about in time. I'm sorry that there's really a minority, and I'm saying there's no 10% of the population here. If we look at the financial part. In fees, practically 67% of the revenue is on fees. If we look at the involvement of members of national minorities, then I think they would have the right to expect, and I say according to the positive legislation of the Republic of Croatia, according to the statutes and conventions that we have signed that indeed should be at least the representation of minority language within the borders that were until '91. We have warned several times that we do not ask that when emissions of minorities are in minority languages, they must be broadcast on state television in the sense that they must see all of Croatia. We have said that certain minorities will also satisfy the level of regional, since minorities are regionally often distributed, if we Hungarians are the area of Osijek and that eastern part. We know that the Czechs are the Belarusian region, or county. Italians that are more of a western part, i.e. Istria and that segment. Therefore, emissions and chronicles in minority languages do not need at national level. But in regional certainly and minority language anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96543	Thank you, dear colleague. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, the esteemed colleague of Letica. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. Dear colleague Dorothy Pesic Bukovac. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Sutlicu, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I would refer to my personal experience regarding HRT and the Council of HRT, and this is one letter that I sent in early July and I will now read to you one part of that letter, and it is related to the Law on Electronic Media, Article 15 where it is spoken in indent 1 that no programme content is allowed that threatens constitutional order and national security and 2 in software content is forbidden to encourage, promote and spread national, racial or religious hatred and intolerance, anti-Semitism and xenophobia, ideas of fascist, Nazi and other totalitarian regimes that encourage discrimination or intolerance towards individuals or groups because of their origin, colour, skin, political beliefs, world view, sexual status, sex, sexual or other definitions or traits. The letter referred to the broadcast of Thompson's concert, or the recording of Thompson's concert on July 1st 2007, on a prime time, and we know that the concert was provoked by the Ustasha sign, and at that time, it means the same day that Thompson's concert was released, the footage of Thompson's concert took place the final evening in the Rijeka of the Istra and Kvarner melodies festival, which cherishes the hammer's expression and preserves the cultural heritage of that end, and for such a event on HRT there was no hearing to be in direct transmission, but only after the footage of Thompson's concert was broadcast a short recording of Istria and Kvarner's tune. There was a session where the debate was held, the 42nd session was held on July 13, the 43rd session of July 24th and the 44th session held on September 3rd where the Programme Council discussed many things. This does not show in detail what the debate was about, but I did not get an answer on my letter from either HRT or the Programme Council. I don't think we little MPs deserve an answer from big and powerful television. At the concert, I'm sure it wasn't the TV's job to deal with the Ustasha sign, and we all know that it's the police's job, the judiciary, etc., but what's going to be broadcast on TV is certainly the job of television and choosing what's going to be broadcast in prime time. I don't think it can serve us honor and that it certainly isn't a good thing for our young people to be educated to hate someone, not to cultivate a waiting expression or someone else and to raise cultural youth. We all know that the same emissions of scientific and educational content, as well as of cultural emissions, are further disregarded for the recommendations of the HRT Council, are broadcast in inappropriate terms. So I don't think it was possible, it wouldn't be good if you didn't play Thompson's concert, because he certainly has his fans, but you should certainly cut out everything that reminds you of some times that aren't good for our country and choose also a different term and that some values should be valued differently. That's why I don't think enough of the cultural and civilization level of the programme is still being taken care of, and you've announced to Mr. Director that such changes will occur. I sincerely hope, I suppose there may not have been enough time yet, but in the future you promised before the election as director, that you would do so. Here's my personal experience, there's not a word about it in this report, but I'd like to ask you that no matter what three months have passed, you can answer my question that I've asked you in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96545	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, respected colleague Lelic. Here you go, pals. ... Here's a replica, then. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96546	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague who looked back at her vision, her experience with HRT and the show by Thompson, and I agree in the end that you said that the concert was supposed to be on TV, but I really, really did watch it myself and I love listening to Thompson and I don't want to hide from it at all that he educates young people that they hate. I really didn't see that video that taught someone to hate, and the young people were having fun, and I think that's what's cut off everything that could possibly cause someone to feel bad. I think this government has even defined social policy with us in relation to any sign or Ustasha. Unfortunately, we have not yet identified ourselves in connection with some other signs. But I'd look back on my experience with television. So today I'm reading the paper, one that I'm not advertising right now, and here I'm going to read some items. Croatia has made significant progress this year and the second is on a scale of reformers in the world behind Egypt and at the top of the rankings in the region of Europe and Central Asia in ease of business, moving 27 places. The World Bank's Vice-President of the International Financial Organization said that. It also says, as the best reformer in Europe and Central Asia, Croatia has implemented reforms in 4 out of 10 areas etc. And I wonder if one of these good indicators in Croatia will be or some other show that would talk about something positive, while some negative things are repeated every day and so on. So I think that indeed here, and public television, our public and national television should be taken into account, unlike other televisions, more about national and public interests and promote and such values as there are positive achievements here. I think it's too much of anything that's negative, so then it's a general picture of society that's more and more than it actually exists. Well, in that sense, I would present my vision and my experience with Croatian Radio Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96547	Reply to the replica of the respected representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96548	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I've just suggested that the values that should be primary, that culture be nurtured, and the expression either hammered, or some other, but that's not so. The uprisings, signs, etc. are still being glorified. And we know for ourselves what preceded this Thompson concert that was advertised on television ten days before in all prime time. It's not just the same question of Ustasha signs. We know if we're going to sing Thompson songs that words from those songs come from. So it's not just about symbols. I don't think it deserves one of Thompson's concerts, especially the video. As for what you were talking about reforming if, that's the World Bank, it's reforming in the financial system. I don't think it has anything to do with what we just said. And some values are obviously disturbed because, for example, Mr. Leviak, who is a representative of the Association in the Programme Council, sits in the official box in Umag with a protocol from Umag, with President Mesic, with you, Mr. Sutlic, etc. So I don't think it's his place there, while Parliamentarians were sitting in the lowest ranks, stuck in the worst corner of the entire field. Since he's a representative of the association, I think he'd have a conflict of interest sitting where he was sitting.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96549	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96550	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Chief Director, colleagues and colleagues. I guess so, so I'll do the same for us to accept this report. And I'd say more for one pragmatic and prosaic reason, because those whose account might need to be referred to are no critics. This simply refers to a period when Mr Sutlic did not act on television. So, I think the guilty or the responsible, and even for everything that's been going on, and even for this report, they're not even gonna be here anymore. And it should be accepted as it is. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't talk about some situations or problems. Here, thanks to the status and position of the parliamentary representative I am able to speak for the third time, I feel a little bit about Croatian radio television, I feel like a parrot, because for the third time I am talking and now I am going to repeat more or less the same again, which just means that nothing compared to the segment that I am close to and which I know best, which is culture, has not changed in the last three years on Croatian radio television. And as my esteemed colleague Zdenka Chuhnil spoke of minorities, so will I speak of a minority, which is a minority of culture or a cultural minority on Croatian radio television, one segment that actually acts like a poor maid or some distant cousin in that family who has no real place, no concept or vision in such a specific media as television. Whether or not culture should be a question or a measure of things, because its position is set out in the law on Croatian radio television. And if only the editors or those who allow the editors would stick to it, we would have a lot of culture. I'm so much better off that we still have it hidden in some sort of visual terms, in some tiny nights when no one's actually looking at it. As far as music is concerned. I don't know why, I asked Mr. Galic last time, is he ashamed of his orchestra that costs money? That orchestra costs money. That orchestra has its terms, its wages, so everything that belongs to it. However, the concert of the same orchestra, the same house, is shown at one in the night. I don't know who or why. You'd better not show it, because at one o'clock in the night I assure you no one will listen to the concerts. That's number one. It's not just music, of course. If I didn't get into some kind of a story, it wasn't just music. It's about science, and it's about the end line and these drama shows that are gone. Instead of them, we've been looking at some kind of stupid soap opera for years now, misdirected, ill-written, misrepresented. I wonder again who? Is it a function, is it a fundamental feature of national television that should be educated and educated. Maybe, I don't know, I'm not sure it's aimed at one particular segment of the population, but I'd say it's not. What's missing in the cultural program is live broadcasts, that's something that's the dominant medium of television. Live broadcasts, live encounters with living people. Because when you put five, six people in a studio where they talk for two hours about nothing, it really doesn't interest anyone. Well, there you go. I hope that after this four years of our mandate that fellow representatives in the next, if they are interested in culture on Croatian television, that they will perhaps have a little easier work. And now just let me have another dipression. I have mentioned on our Committee on Information and Media when it comes to the report an example which does not refer to the report, therefore to the period that we are talking about, a culture emissions that has been in my court, and also by the court of many politicised. And I said it wasn't a place where such things should be discussed. And now I'm just going to warn Mr. Director that, with Independence Day, so a few days ago on Croatian television, it was the very day "Latinica" with the topic of Croatian defenders that was completely inappropriate with a very negative relationship and I have to say that it echoed negatively among the numerous populations. Of course, I am not in favour of playing on such dates as on November 29th, May 1st, or I don't know which state holiday is played only by stepsteps and playing some kind of political talk, but that on the occasion of the Croatian Independence Day, I think it's counterproductive for everyone, both for television and for defenders, and for viewers, whoever you want and I'm afraid it was tentuous. And I'm sorry that things like that happen and I don't feel at all uncomfortable if someone's gonna think I'm getting into the program right now. Yes, I knit with a full name and last name and responsibility for the subject and everything we care about because I believe that Croatian Radio Television must finally fulfill its public television function and not abuse any show, nor abuse any show in terms of any political ideas, especially on the days of those holidays where indeed a large part of the Croatian population and these defenders can feel humiliated and threatened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96551	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96552	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Director of Croatian Radio Television. Here, I will replicate my colleagues to Jagoda and I will say a few things that Croatian defenders are actually like minorities, as well as culture, as well as festivals at local levels that should be carried directly and were once. And I want to say that reality is next, that I warned the previous director and asked him to... The Republic of Croatia sent a memo to him, to Mr. Rončević and to the editor-in-chief with a memo we became a tape of recorded films "We felt, you do not forget.". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This series, unless it was enough to be shown on television with its content or its quality, could be answered by a bar. Today, two and a half years later, our instructions and correspondence with the rush, with a personal presence at a meeting with former director Galic, Rončević, Germany and others where all the defenders were present, brought that material again, handed it to them. The president of the programme council was relatively critical of the editor-in-chief, but nothing finally happened. Even today we have no answers from Croatian Radio-Television. I must remind you to ask, to see, I do not blame you. Ask who these people who can't cause or answer don't do you any good material, come talk to us, we'll see how we can help you present your population of people with disabilities in the Homeland War in some kind of light they're doing today, how they live today, how they've suffered because we've got the original documents about how the mines have torn them apart, how their legs have been cut off, how they've given them an infusion, how they've stopped the bleeding. We sent all of this to remember these events at appropriate times and dates, or ten minutes a week or a month. And I must stress that it is really inappropriate when "Latinica" is mounted on the Day of Independence of the Republic of Croatia with the content of "All Secret Register of Croatian Defences" where deserters and traitors are invited to this show to talk about negativity, about allurings, about doubts that have no stops and evidence and after that "Latinica" comes Mamic as the main preoccupation of Croatia on Independence Day.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96553	Dear Representative Vladimir Stengl is the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96554	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you mentioned "Latin" and is now mentioned on Monday. However, for one edition of Croatian Radio Television or Croatian Television, it was not Independence Day, it was Homeland Thanksgiving. On page 202 of the teletext, it said that the Zagreb Stock Exchange was not working that day because of Homeland Thanksgiving. This is what I'm saying to Mr. Director for your help. Maybe you noticed, maybe you didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96555	Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic. She's gone. He's losing his word. Director-General of HRT Vanja Sutlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96556	First of all, I'm obliged to apologize for not giving an immediate explanation. I appreciated the fact that this is the end of a large period of time, that there is a lot of work and that after we've passed the committees, maybe we don't need one in the basic technical report of a previous period, and that's the only reason why I haven't spoken. Also, I am obliged here to convey the apology of Mr. Zdenko Leviak who is not present in this hall for the simple reason that he is opening for us yet important events of the Book Fair in Frankfurt where the Croatian book is present in a special way. And here's to maybe, as an explanation, I'm saying that we just found out today that we're going to be talking here today. The program council is very critical, just to add, in relation to the materials you have received and continuously puts it on the agenda different watches or different our actions in the program. And you've actually only got one taste of the topics listed and not the actual reflection of all the remarks that have fallen and spoken there. Of course, if this is followed by the topics that come out in the media in which we, of course, participate, then it's always what in some way can from that entire work be again under some more or less yellow company pulled out and not a complete reflection of the debate that is being held there. However, what I can assure you is that every word that is said there is taken very seriously and we try to fix it. So I will even say that I am very sorry that the director-in-chief of Croatian Radio-Television at least at the beginning of the mandate does not have the opportunity to say and explain in some way the programme with which it goes before the Council and which is actually a specific interpretation of how he sees the performance of the legal role that Croatian Radio-Television has and how he thinks to implement in one period. I assure you that such an opportunity is so that many of the questions that have been asked here will receive their clear answers and you too will have a foothold that you can criticize even more thoroughly whether we are doing what we intend to do or not. As far as the report itself is concerned, I only have to add that we have tried to do so for the first time and that you have received clearly indicated exactly the questions that have been raised here in the Assembly and regarding our business, in particular, explain and further answer them. As we are directly ahead of the elections and here is a few very characteristic assessments about this I will only comment on this thing in one way. The man who now stands before you and speaks is ready to leave the post the day after the election unless Croatian RadioTelevision does the most honorable, correct and best possible way. And that based on our own conclusion that we didn't do it in the best possible way, not on any criticism that would come from the side. I purposely highlight it because I have the right to say it because if I could operate the election of the 1990s and do it in one way that, in conditions that were incomparably difficult then I can rightly say that I have the right to guarantee this body and this public that Croatian broadcasting will do this job in the best possible way. The more I want to agree here with one of the findings made by Mr Cain and which I have already made public and in the papers, too. Croatian broadcasting is no longer exposed today and I really must say that I am not feeling absolutely any pressure over the past half of the year. Interested yes. On the part of the official policy, the official bodies were parties to either state institutions. But I have to say, we didn't quite step away from politics exactly in the sense that Mr. Cain was talking about. If there is no institutional pressure on us, if therefore our editorial policy is just ours alone I can't be satisfied yet because still too, too unfortunately in our programme there is what Mr. Cain has marked as the individual relationship of our individual journalists with individual party structures. Get them away from you, you'll help everyone. Those who serve in this way today will serve others tomorrow and are not reliable associates. You're going to help us, you're going to help us solve this problem that Mr. Cain is talking about. That's too much, that's what we want to deal with. So I'm even going to say that they're indicators, and ever since I came to the post, I've been conducting an uninterrupted monitoring of political parties' representation on certain shows. Those indicators that come to me show incredible differences from show to show, which also confirms this thesis, and it's not true, now I'm going to say so precisely that two of the strongest parties, according to their strength, have the biggest access to the screen. Unfortunately, colleagues have a completely different structure when we look at it from that point of view it's completely different structure, it's structured like who has a man in Croatian radio television. I promise you that as far as I'm concerned, I will do everything I can to eradicate it, and in this business, I expect public support and the Parliament itself. Because I think it's the only way we can do the best we can. I'm just going to say one more thing here about what Mrs. Jagoda said, which is that Croatian broadcasting is only a part of an informative institution. We are primarily an institution that is cultural, which is a guardian and a supporter and even a driving force of overall development. He's a guardian of identity, a guardian of wealth. It is the form of a total dialogue between Croatia and the entire civilization corps in which we live. Therefore, I would like to see these discussions and the radio and these other contents sometimes stand in front of only one of our functions, and that is informative and only one of its parts, which is political. Unfortunately, this debate, too, if I may be a little critical, is a little too much under the influence of the upcoming elections. By definition, we, as public television, meet the needs of the minority. Always the minorities. Because only the combined minority of all species represents the entire population. It's the right to subscribe because commercial stations work for the majority audience. And that's why subscription is not a good thing because you can only pick it up with the majority audience. When it comes to budgeting, it's serving the state. And most of the cells that were mentioned here have a budget that is incomparable to our incomes and I would be very happy to change for such a budget and give up any kuna it achieves through advertising. But you have probably estimated where this balance is between the possibility of payment that the population has and what we can earn on the market to do in favour of the entire Croatian public is its function. In the end, I'd like to say one more thing about our positive actions. We really think that technology and the return of that abolished third channel, because now that technology allows us to do so. It will probably already be from the new year in one significant part of the country visible, in Istria completely. Since the new year we plan to go with the 4th Information Channel and thus meet and open the possibility to meet all these needs that have minorities and that we can speak regionally more and specifically in all languages in which we should speak in Croatia to meet the legal needs and I will say civilization norms. But on the other hand, I would like to say another sentence concerning Zagreb. I'll say it as a Zagreber. Not only as director, head director of Croatian Radio Television. Zagreb is not dominant on the screen. Zagreb as the capital of Croatia, as the metropolis from which all political, cultural, legislative life goes. But I will say this, as a city that lives its specific life, with its environment it is less present than many of our regions in our programme. I stand for one even, real presence of regions in a programme that will strengthen regional programmes through the restructuring of all these three channels, i.e. four channels, and in this current regular programme we will... to meet these regulations that are expected of us and of these laws that have bound us to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, I will just say that the Croatian Radio Television will be back on the subject of the elections to follow the elections as decided by the Parliament, whether it remains on the track of the old rule, whether you make a new one and only in the context of what you will make your decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96557	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96558	Report on HRT's work and implementation of the programme principles and obligations laid down by law in Croatian Radio Television Programmes for the period from 20 September 2006 to 30 September 2007 with the HRT Directorate's Report on HRT's Business for 2006. I give the vote the conclusion: "Two of the reports mentioned are accepted.". Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 127 for, 1 against, 1 abstention, accepted proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96559	We're going to the next point. - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on County, City and Municipalitys in the Republic of Croatia – Proposer Zdravko Sočković, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. We've accepted an emergency procedure. Proposer representative, Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96560	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. As I come from the area of Brod-Posavina County, I will try to present to you why citizens, locals of the Local Committee of Slavonski Kobaš, are asking to be a separate municipality compared to Orijac Municipality. Namely, the Local Committee of Slavonski Kobaš and the town of Slavonski Kobaš is the second largest place in the Municipality of Orijavac, and includes the catastrian municipality and the settlement Slavonski Kobaš. The village itself is situated on the left bank of the Sava River right near the mouth of the Orljava River in Sava. With 500 households deployed in 10 streets, 2 squares in the polling list in the last elections are listed a thousand 80 voters, and there are about a thousand 400 residents who are registered with residence in Slavonski Kobaš. The border is a place and since the Sava River is also a state border towards Bosnia and Herzegovina opposite, on the right bank of Sava, there is a Bosnian Kobas, and on the east border with the Debrina municipality. The position that is on three sides surrounded by rivers and water and that it is quite poorly connected to the centre of its municipality, means the Orivac village itself is just one of the reasons why the settlements of Kobaš and went to the referendum. Kobaš has a long tradition and was a significant, significant settlement in a long range of years in Slavonia. I'm redecorating '63. the year Kobaš was founded when the Municipality of Slavonski Brod Kobaš was a local community, and the new one was reshuffled in '93. the year becomes an integral part of the Municipality of Orivac. The historical view of the facts clearly states that Kobaš has acquired numerous features through his status with geostrategic characteristics that condition the way of life, forms of management and commitment to life and generally life habits of the population, i.e. acquired specialities, are significantly different from the specificities of other parts of the Orijevac municipality. All to such extent that after 13 years in Orivac Municipality, the same Kobaš does not record any shifts in the economic, social and other development strategies. Encouraged by the growing dissatisfaction of the citizens of the Local Committee and the Census of Citizens have fully analyzed the current situation and found that the village is abandoned and the link of vital recovery in the near and further future is therefore the last time that such a situation from the roots is changed. Even with the most favourable approach in the analysis of the evaluation of 13-year-old life in Orivac Municipality, it was not possible to avoid the conclusion that the essential reasons for the situation described and the inability to adapt in the manner of the other local committees of the Oriovac Municipality as well as the inability to manage their own lives in the settlement, the inability to make available their own incomes, since the local committee has no giro account. In short, the interests of Orijac Municipality and the vital interests of Kobas settlement do not coincide in a developmental sense, they are difficult and impossible to reconcile. Namely, the settlements of Orijavac Municipality are mainly grouped along the railway and road roads that are more difficult for industrial and artistic development, while Slavonski Kobaš is necessarily focused on agricultural resources that approach the Sava River and border status. It is also the conclusion of the Citizens' Assembly and the opinion signed on the common list that the orientation on agricultural production makes sense if it is organised in terms of good cooperativeship, in terms of better exploitation of their land in the catastrian municipality of Slavonski Kobaš. At the Citizens' Assembly, this was confirmed directly and with its signatures because the petition was signed by more than 50% of Slavonski Kobaš's residents. Only the place of Slavonski Kobaš has infrastructure that is abandoned but there are, of electric lines,... The post office, Telekom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's a lot of socially untapped space within the community home in the center of the village. He has a school with 153 students and a sports football club and other fire departments and other societies. In the area of the Local Committee there are several registered craftsmen, and perhaps the most significant production capacity is one farm for turkey farming, the capacity of 56 thousand pieces in the tour, which is also a good production capacity within Slavonia. And we've got a couple more craftsmen in the trade. In the end, I could only say that the will of the local settlement Slavonski Kobaš is also supported in the Assembly of the County of Slavonski Kobaš and that here it is through me as a parliamentary representative has been asked to receive it means a new municipality, the Municipality of Slavonski Kobaš that would better care for its progress and development in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96561	Correction of the quote, the esteemed representative of Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96562	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct the false allegations of fellow Sockovic, as I am a councilman in the county assembly, I don't know of such a conclusion that the assembly has authorized him to propose, so I think it's simply not true, and in the debate that follows, I'll look back on other inaccuracies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96563	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96564	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is so that this debate on this important topic for residents of Slavonski Kobaš, and the Municipality of Orjevac will not remain undetected or unlisted, I will say a few of my impressions better about this proposal which I normally hold legal and legitimate, but I must say that by my court, especially the explanation that we have received in the bill that the proposal is more than unserious. I'll tell you why. The proposal says that additional funding in the state budget is not necessary for law enforcement, and one, one settlement, one of ten settlements from Orjevac Municipality, a settlement that has a truly rich past, but also a very questionable future. The Municipality of Orjevac is one of the richest municipalities in the area of Brod-Posavina County, one of the 26 municipalities with a budget that this year is slightly below 20 million kuna with all the grants that came from the state budget to the municipality. A colleague, Sočković, also pointed out some of the potential of this municipality. I will only present the following in the light of this proposal. There are 388 households in the municipality. There's a thousand 303 people on the last list. Of that, there are a thousand 80 voters, which speaks enough about the age structure of the population itself. In the municipality itself, i.e. in the area of the future municipality if it passes, and in the area of the existing settlement Slavonski Kobaš are registered three craftsmen, several service activities, the truth one large farm for the farming of turkey capacity 56 thousand pieces on the tour, one large farm for the tow chicken capacity of 46 thousand pieces, there are several smaller farms for these chickens capacity about 10 thousand pieces on the tour, there is a farm for holding cattle, a small mini slaughterhouse, there are 800 pigs, 52 bulls and 2 milk collectors. Privately owned, there are also 577 cows. That's how it's explained this proposal. ... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There are also 40 horses, there are 3 and a half thousand pigs, there are a thousand 800 pieces of domestic poultry, 350 sheep and goats, and there are some 3,000 and 200 acres of agricultural land, half of which are privately owned. And most importantly, out of a total of a thousand 303 inhabitants, only two hundred 50 are constantly employed, while everyone else deals with warfare, or agriculture, with this little cow and bulls and dairy. And it is said that the proximity of the river is the possibility of interstate transit, a fundamental assumption for the development of tourism. Now, you see respected colleagues and colleagues, the Proposer of this Law, with all the support of the Croatian Government, says that there is a bright future for this village and that no additional funds are needed for this Act. I can understand the wrath of the municipality’s inhabitants, or settlements of Slavonski Kobaš, which I believe may also have a foundation. It reflects an extremely bad economic situation that is particularly important throughout Croatia, in all of Slavonia, and in the area of Brod-Posavina County, which has been severely affected by war and especially by war. In 2003, the budget of this strongest local self-government unit in Brod-Posavina County was 3 and a half million, 2004. 4 million 200, 2005. 9 million, 2006 something under 11 and a plan for this year something under 20 million kuna. The total potential of all 26 municipalities, both cities, of which is one Slavonski Brod, which is the sixth city in size and the Brod-Posavina County in last year was below 500 million kuna. It is less than the city of Zagreb does to the ZET for the subsidy of city transport. I am proud that the city of Zagreb gives so much money, looking from our prism should probably give more, but I am unhappy when the Croatian Government and this little poverty we have wants to share even more. Of that little poor thing to do more than that. ... More poor women, of course. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If I heard that the Croatian Government, which supports the adoption of this Act, will provide for at least five million of these but also for every future municipality and existing municipality, I would support this law, and probably all my colleagues and colleagues in the SDP club. And I'm not sure about the outcome, and I'm not sure that these two hundred and fifty employees of the private company will be able to properly service everything that is required by law to the local self-government unit, the future of course. Most of these 2 hundred 50 employees have minimum salaries, and they don't pay almost taxes, and I don't know what this budget is going to be filled into and made possible by a municipality that has potentials. He's got resources. And the Ship-Posavia County has allocated quite a bit of its resources to raise new standards and due to long-term nephritis disease, so it is a settlement that had a city water supply among the first. But apparently, the perspective of this settlement or this future community is not light. For this reason, I will say just one more thing, that in this year about a million kuna or 10% of the total budget of the municipality is set aside for the needs of only Slavonski Kobaš settlements, which one of the ten settlements said in the municipality. And this year's plan is much bigger. It's a lot more than the municipality itself could provide funds from these I don't know, such happy examples, I don't know from which funds and how. And let me get this straight. In the area of Brod-Posavina County, we have 185 settlements, I said, organised in 26 municipalities. It is symptomatic that HDZ, but in no way different to understand the pre-election trick and manipulation, is symptomatic that only where HDZ is not in power, to change borders, to attack the current government, so the example of the Municipality of Staro Petrovo selo and the Dedovina Defence Department is at the head of the HDZ, and here, now Slavonski Kobaš, which is one small, peaceful, pitomo, is an attachment place which is in the same position only because in the municipality of Orivac in the power of HSS. It is likely that the HSS in the municipality of Vrpolje, so the Perkovci from which is coming and fellow Sockovic may be in a position to be the municipality. But as long as HDZ is there's no need, it's all the same. This way when someone else is, it doesn't go away. So, when I get or when we get a guarantee that there will be 5 or more million kunas in the next period of time, I will support this municipality's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96565	... conditional support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Proportional support for a bank guarantee or any other financial guarantee. Mortgage banks...... There's nothing. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I've got nothing to do with these. Replicated representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96566	I thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I am, not to leave the Parliament without knowing which time I don't mention the municipality of Donja Motičina, which is probably in the same situation that this newly founded community would find itself in if they founded it. The municipality of Donja Motičina has a thousand and 300 inhabitants, similar to this one, and you know how many budgets they have? 700 thousand kuna. When they pay for electricity, water, gas, wages and everything else they have to and what little ficus they've got, you know how much they have left for capital investments? Fifty thousand kuna. We want one community that works as much as two poor people can. I don't mind having people and local self-government, all of them allowed to stand out and set up units of local self-government. But there's one thing we need to work out before. How can they survive? And my vision of why this is done in pre-election time and why it's been happening all the time, I know what it was like in Mottnik, Gunja, I don't know where the Gorjans were bought with 500 thousand kuna by the captains to row from Glavas back to HDZ. So we're creating lowlifes that can't function so they can be bought. We're creating a place for corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96567	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mato Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96568	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow! I agree with you, and I also personally have no objection that citizens can achieve local self-government in the settlements they live in, but that requires other assumptions in Motičina Donjo, both in Perkovci and in Brod Stupnik, as well as in the municipality of Orijac, or in Kobaš. But while the government is holding finances so tightly and as it settles for similarity, I am not sure that this future poor or certain that with the will of the majority in this pre-election time and Kobash will become a municipality, I am not sure that they will be able to exist for a long time and live with the fullness of life, and especially not better than they are now living. Unfortunately, both the Brod-Posavina County and the neighbouring one are unable to support all of the needs of the inhabitants and of this village more generously from their resources. We expected to get a budget rebalance at this last session. We are accused, at least of our parliamentary representatives from Slavonia, of not participating in the debate over the implementation of the budget in the first six months. But here it comes from, from the absence of this debate, this one is visible. By the end of the year, the government is likely to shut down everything that needs to be closed in its area when HDZ is concerned, providing votes, and this is nothing more than securing the vote to HDZ, which is in the majority of this village.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96569	Final Review Dear Representative, Proposer of the Law Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96570	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here, I'll be very brief. The revenues that have been confirmed by the Ministry of Finance are between a million and a million 700 thousand kuna, so for that future municipality, which is no Motičina and will not be. On the other hand, when we look at that if someone leaves the richest municipality according to the budget of Brod-Posavina County from Orivac municipality, then it is obvious that the water has reached the throat, because what Mr Kapraljevic is saying about capital investments, there are no capital investments led by Oriovac municipality in Kobaša capital investments coming from the state level and the funds of the Oriovac municipality locals are not satisfied with that redistribution of funds. I'm not talking about any pre-election tricks here, but I'm just talking about that the majority will of citizens means Kobash was to be singled out in a special municipality, that the local committee in Kobash made all the necessary legal actions but also all the budgets in which and how they're going to go on. Thus, I did not say that the Assembly of the Ship - Posavina County had commissioned me to present me but said that there was then a proposal at the assembly that the congregation would always give it correctly if someone had properly conducted a referendum that could go further in the procedure. Indeed, I only represent the interests of those people who carried out that referendum, or the local committee of Kobash. Well, here, and in the end, I would like to invite my colleagues and colleagues to support this proposal because this is the will of citizens who are more than 60%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96571	I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Proposer of the Law is a representative of Zdravko Sočković. The adoption of the Law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs at least 77. I'm voting on this bill. Who's in? Against? Restraint? 71 for it. [[Applause.]] Against 54. Four abstentions. The law wasn't passed because it didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96574	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The main objective of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Measurement is to further align quality infrastructure with the acquis of the European Union in the field of measurement of course, i.e. building and improving administrative capacity for the proper implementation of harmonised legislation. On the basis of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on Measurement, it will establish the appropriate technical infrastructure necessary for the implementation of harmonised European legislation in line with similar infrastructure in the Member States of the European Union. The law therefore provides for a further transformation of the State Bureau of Measurement or the separation of the functions of legal regulation and the functions of implementing legislation and of the technical functions currently performed by the Institute. The creation of such a structure is necessary for the proper application of the acquis, which is a prerequisite for opening negotiations for chapter one "Freedom of Movement". And we have also received the opinion of the European Commission, there is no objection to the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Measurement. Here, that would be brief. Well, I wouldn't be longer, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96575	Thank you. The committees? Committee on Education, Science and Sports, Vice-President of the Committee Željko Pavlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96576	Your Honor, Mr. President, the honorable representatives of the ministry. Here is the last time on behalf of the Committee on Science, Education and Culture. So, since this is the parent committee, I should still state the position of this committee. Therefore, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 40th session of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Measurement with the Final Proposal for Law. The Committee discussed the issue as a home working body and submitted a proposal to the opening statement. The area of legal measurement in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Law on Measurement in 2003 and is therefore in line with the regulations of the European Union. The solutions now proposed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Measurement take into account the changes that later took place at that level as proposals addressed to the Croatian side in the negotiation process. Furthermore, some terminology adjustments are proposed in order to comply with the laws referred to in the legal order as a whole in this respect. In institutional terms, the most important novelty of the establishment of the Croatian Measurement Institute and the establishment of the department of the State Institute for Measurement and the Croatian Measurement Institute in order to bring their responsibilities in line with the existing European legislation. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously concluded: "It is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Measurement." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96577	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing this agenda. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Measurement. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Secretary of State? Drazen Vicic Topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96579	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We've received seven amendments, they're legally nomotechnically designed and accepted, the government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96580	Thank you. The amendment shall be accepted by the Proposer. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? unanimously with 122 votes in favour of the proposed law in the text as proposed by the government along with the amendments adopted. - The proposal for a decision to declare the Day of Social Partnership is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Representative of the motion State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Branko Vukelić, please explain the proposal for a decision. Vladimir Vrankovic, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96582	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. With this conclusion of 2 October 2007, the Economic and Social Council of the Republic of Croatia launched an initiative to declare the Social Partnership Day on 21 January 1994. Following the above mentioned Government of the Republic of Croatia, it proposes this Parliament to draft a proposal for a decision to declare the Day of the Social Partnership on 21 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96583	Thank you. I'm opening up. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Decision declaring the Day of the Social Partnership. I'm voting on the decision. Who's for the social partnership? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 129 votes for the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96590	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 59th session held on 10 October 2007, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee for Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a candidate to elect a member of the State Judicial Council sent to the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on 9 October 2007. The opening committee established the following: the President of the State Judicial Council, by letter of 12 April 2007, informed the Justice Committee that the term of office of 15 October 2007 to the State Judicial Council member Milan Gudelje. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on the State Judicial Council and Article 73 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in the process of electing a member of the State Judicial Council, shall be authorised to request the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to initiate the application procedure for a member of the Council. The Committee received proposals from the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia for a member of the State Judicial Council established at an extended general session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the State Judicial Council of the General Meeting of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has established 3 candidates for the selection of members of the State Judicial Council as follows: Ranko Marijan, judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia with 30 votes. Under 2. Kresimir Devcic, court of the County Court in Zagreb with 26 votes. And below 3. Ileana Vinja, judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, with 22 votes. All proposals are covered by the report. The Committee on Justice has established that the proposed candidates meet the conditions for a member of the State Judicial Council. Proposals by the authorising officer for the selection of one member of the National Judicial Council shall be submitted by the Committee to the Croatian Assembly for a decision in accordance with Article 3. It's the law of the State Judiciary Council. After the debate, the Committee on Justice unanimously adopted the following conclusions with 9 votes: First, it is proposed to the President of the Croatian Parliament to put the point in the agenda of the 27th session of the Croatian Parliament: The election of a member of the State Judiciary Council. And two. The Croatian Parliament is being proposed by three candidates who are authorised to elect one member of the State Judicial Council because they have been found to meet the conditions for the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-10-11-0.u96591	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we conduct a united discussion with the - Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the rules on the conduct of electronic media with national concessions in the Republic of Croatia, the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System with - the proposal for rules on the handling of electronic concessions in the Republic of Croatia during the election promotion, the SDP, HNS, HSS, HSS, HSP, IDS, SDS and National Minorities' proposals are agreed to conduct a united debate on these two points? Thank you. Against? Unanimity with 88 votes in favour. The first is the proposal for an initiative by this group of clubs. Who in the name of the clubs of these six is going to be the proposer, one is the promoter? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may be submitted at the beginning of the hearing only by the applicant or by one of the representatives, at the beginning of the debate. Who, would anyone like to submit an opening presentation from these six clubs? No, I don't. Okay. Thank you very much. Then we'll go to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Mr. President, would you like to submit an opening statement? Here you go.
