ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89484	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am opening the 26th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I congratulate all the Antuns on their names. I welcome the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, and present members of the government, vice president and vice president. The 25th session was held at the session. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I'm confirming that we've accepted the record as suggested. We're moving on to the session's agenda. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are offered a final draft agenda. I have included two new points in the final draft agenda: Proposal for a law on the validation of the Council of Europe Convention on the control of human trafficking with the Final Bill, an emergency procedure. And secondly, the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. Number 704. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The final draft agenda under points 4 to 12, points 14 and 15, points 20 and 21 and points 36 and 37, shall state the laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed. These are: 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community, on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the 2007-2013 Culture Programme, emergency procedure. 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the regulation of the obligations of the former Soviet Union on accounts relating to the trade in goods between the former Soviet Union and the former SFRJ with the Final Proposal of the Law. 3. Proposal for a foreign law, P.Z.E. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, P.Z.E. 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on geographical indications and the designations of origin of products and services with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z.E. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Topography, Semiconductive Products, P.Z.E. Seven. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the patent law, P.Z.E. 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Industrial Design Act, P.Z.E. Nine. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mark Act, P.Z.E. Ten. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on residence tax, P.Z.E. 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Maritime Code, emergency procedure. 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the control of human trafficking. 13. Proposal for a drug law, P.Z.E. 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, Proposer of the PGS, SBH and MDS Club, emergency procedure. And 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, emergency procedure. I note that the laws referred to in the final draft agenda under points 6 to 12, under points 14 and 21, bear the label P.Z.E. the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161; We don't vote on the rules of procedure. These are: Proposals for a Law on Foreigners, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Geographical Origin Tags and to the designations of origin of products and services. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Topography, Half-Leading Products. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the patent law. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Industrial Design Act. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mark Act, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence tax. And a proposal for a drug law. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? ... Representative Mario Zubović. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89485	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The club, the HDZ Club, opposes an emergency procedure under points 36 and 37. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the HDZ Representatives Club opposes the adoption by emergency procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act with the Final Proposal for Law P.Z. No 651, the applicant for the PGS, SBH and NDS Representatives' Club. ... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the HDZ Representatives Club opposes the adoption by an urgent procedure of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties with the Final Proposal for the Law of P.Z. 664. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89486	Thank you. Order! What about the voting system? Something's wrong with the computer, and something's not gonna be right with those responsible for the computer. It's just like this right now, it's controlled or so, and right now, right? Yeah, yeah. Very skilled people who do that. We're going to have to vote with, in a manual way, when we apply the emergency procedure. First of all, who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Memorandums of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Culture Programme from 2007 to 2013? Thank you. Against? Okay. Where are your masters? With 94 unanimously accepted emergency procedures. Secondly, who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Regulation of the obligations of the former Soviet Union in respect of the accounts relating to the trade in goods between the former Soviet Union and the former SFRJ? Thank you. Against? With 95 included unanimously in the emergency procedure. Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code? Thank you. Against? At the age of 95, this law was entered into by an emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law attesting the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Human Trade? Thank you. Against? With 96 unanimous. Who is involved in the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties? This is the proposal for a law where the HDZ Representatives Club objected to the urgency of the procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? The result? 70 against, 26 for. So he's going into a regular procedure. For the purposes of applying the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act proposed by the PGS, SBH and the IMF, where an appeal has also been made to the emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this bill? Thank you. Against? 67 against, 28 for. So he's going into a regular procedure. The written objection to the agenda was proposed by MPs, the club of representatives of HSU and the respected representative of Slaven Letica. The club of HSU representatives submitted a written complaint on the agenda that I proposed with a call for a session and that written objection was filed on 11 June. The Club of HSU Representatives points out that the proposal for the agenda of this session does not include two draft laws which were referred to in the parliamentary procedure on 8 May of this year. And this proposal for a law on the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in a function of equalising the rights of beneficiaries of those pensions retired after and before 1 July '98. A year. And the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. The complaint is not justified because I referred the draft agenda to the representatives on 4 June of this year and in accordance with Article 203(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a agenda to be sent with the call of the President of the Parliament shall bring in all topics referred to in the procedure within 30 days of the proposal for a law, i.e. 15 days when it comes to the final draft of the law or other act. It is clear from those dates and from the stated provisions of the Rules of Procedure that the objection is not justified and that there are no business assumptions that those points are included in the agenda, is there not? June 4th. I will put these two draft laws on the agenda during this session, although there is no obligation to include them in the agenda. But it will be during this session included in the agenda, because I, as president of the Parliament, can direct it. Here you go, Mr. Hrelja's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89487	Mr. President, regardless of your good intentions to put it on the agenda, I would not like to be interpreted in Article 203. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament puts someone in a better position, and someone in a burning position, i.e. a superior, or inferior position. Because it is not the case that, say, government proposals wait 30 days if they are referred to a regular procedure. So at least we didn't have such a case to strictly respect this deadline. I would therefore, however, ask the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to be shown in relation to this objection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89488	Okay. Let the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system give its own testimony. And the next complaint was made on the agenda by a respected representative of Slaven Letica. Namely, the representative Slaven Letica objected on 11 June because the proposal for the agenda of this session did not include the point of the proposal for a decision to set the heart of the model cardinal Dr Franjo Kuharic and the first president of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Franjo Tuđman, in the Croatian Parliament. Yesterday at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament Presidency, because it is only relevant to make such decisions we discussed these initiatives by representatives of Slaven Letica and instructed all clubs in the Croatian Parliament to take note of these initiatives. Because in practice so far, all of the mentions would be set in the Croatian Parliament, in the halls and in other parts of the Assembly, and they were made, it was called by all the clubs of parliamentary parties and it was intended for us in the Presidency of the Parliament to deliver their testimony to these initiatives and proposals from the representatives of Letica and after the initiatives were adopted, then we will make the presidency and that decision. It would be desirable for the decision to be taken not by revote, but rather by taking it consensually as it has been with regard to all the initiatives so far and the proposals to set up the mention of busts in the Croatian Parliament so far. So when the proposals and the signs of the clubs come soon, then the Bureau of Parliament will meet and make a decision. Representative of the Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89489	Mr. President, I really appreciate your willingness to reach a consensus, but if you do not happen to reach a consensus I ask you most nicely to vote on it anyway, so that you can see who is against the appointment you would model Cardinal Franji Kuharic and the first Croatian president Dr. Franji Tudjman, recently spoken of by his successor at the head of HDZ, spoke so nicely and proudly down in Dalmatia. So one 15 days to get along, then on the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89490	Okay. Thank you very much. There were no other written objections to the agenda that I proposed with the call for a session and the agenda was in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are adopted and, as usual, I suggest that if you agree that I do not read the full agenda, I should just announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda with these two amendments. Thank you. Agenda established. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to interrupt the session with the President of the Republic on Statehood Day. Tomorrow at 9:30, we'll start at 20. Proposal for an annual accounts of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2006, so the Annual Report for the year 2006 of HANFE, then the Croatian National Bank, and HAMAG, if we arrived, would work until 13 hours. After that, there would be a vote on a part of the debate. Otherwise today, I have placed this session on the agenda, this session of the motion to raise the issue of trust to the Government of Croatia as a whole, which was submitted by 33 MPs and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have immediately referred the proposal to the Prime Minister for an indication that he has the right and obligation to deliver his testimony to this proposal for the initiation of trust in the government as a whole within 8 days. And the debate cannot take place before the end of seven days from the date of the submission of the proposal, and a debate must be held and a decision taken within 30 days of the date of the submission of the proposal. Most likely, in the second half of next week, we will have a debate on the issue of the government's trust. ... No, no, we won't... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We can, 30 days must be from today, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thirty days. ... Would you not, then, have hearts to remain in an extraordinary session? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I would. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I know, but then it would make it difficult to collect enough signatures to make the intended, desired decision. ... Everyone's gonna... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Continuing, interrupting session. Resume tomorrow at 9:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89497	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to Article 238a. The HDZ Club demands that the vote be held by hand-lifting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89498	Okay. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax? Thank you. Against? I find that, with 86 votes, this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Mandatory Health Control Act for workers who are professionally exposed to asbestos? Thank you. Against? Also with 86 going into emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on conditions for the acquisition of the right to retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos? Thank you. Against? At 85, he's going into emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on conditions for the acquisition of rights...... Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] To compensate workers for professionally exposed asbestos? Yes, thank you. With 84 listed in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89499	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we now have the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, the second reading of P.Z. No. 686, but we don't have a proposal. Will the Social Care Proposer appear? ... And then we'd have to skip this point, given that we don't have a proposal or a representative of the board, because the board hasn't finished, and that's the same situation with the Household Act. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I suggest we interrupt the session a little sooner than usual. I'll see you tomorrow at the same place at 9.30. Thank you very much for your attention. Have a good rest. We start tomorrow as usual, as is commonly said, with the rebalancing of the state budget or official point is the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2007, and then you know all other decisions on the additions of the Croatian Waters Financial Plan, Croatian Roads, etc. etc. Thank you very much. Rest and prepare for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89500	I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9:30 with a debate on the Annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office in 2006. And after that with a vote we have over 45, how many points of the agenda to discuss, vote tomorrow. ... Well, we'll try to get the vote scheduled in 13 hours, but tomorrow we'll try to move that forward a little bit, so... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're going to vote. Please, let's get on with it. I ask MPs and deputies to enter the hall. Please enter the hall. My colleagues and colleagues! Please engage. It's who you're sitting... The result? We've got 80 quorum. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 26th session to the next points. 1. Proposal for a Health Safety Quality Act with final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Protection and Rescue Act, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. 3. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of Railway Markets, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. 4. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement on the application of Article 56 Conventions on the recognition of European patents, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. 5. Proposal for a Law confirming the Convention on the Recognition of European Patents - European Patent Convention and Act amending the Convention on the Recognition of European Patents - European Patent Convention P.Z.E., emergency procedure, 6. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Instrument amending and supplementing the Convention establishing a European Radio Communications Office, P.Z.E. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Modernisation of Tax Administration Project, Emergency Procedure, 8. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the European Atomic Energy Community and non-member countries of the European Union on the participation of latters in the Community labour exchange system and information in the case of radiological hazards, emergency procedure, 9. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways, emergency procedure, 10. Proposal for a Law on the exercise of the right to legal aid, first reading, P.Z.E. 11. Proposal for a Accounting Act, first reading, P.Z.E. 12. Proposal for a Act on the acquisition of stock companies, first reading, P.Z.E. 13. Proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2007 to 2008, Article 205 The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Nine laws have been proposed for the adoption of an emergency procedure. Six of these laws bear the code P.Z.E., and apply the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161. We do not vote on an emergency procedure. And these are: - Proposal for a Health Quality Act, - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Rescue, - Proposal for a Law on Market Regulatory Agency, Railway Services, - Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement on the application of Article 65. Conventions on the Recognition of European Patents, - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Recognition of European Patents, the European Patent Convention and the Act amending the Convention on the Recognition of European Patents, - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Instrument amending and supplementing the Convention establishing the European Radio Communications Office. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? There isn't. We're going to vote on an emergency procedure. Please engage. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Modernisation of the Tax Administration Project? Please, let's get on with it. Please vote! The result? With 90 votes for and 2 abstentions and 1 against going to an emergency procedure. For the purposes of applying the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Confirmation of the Agreement between the European Atomic Energy Community and non-member countries of the European Union on the participation of latters in the Community information exchange system in the event of radiological hazards. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 91 votes and 1 against and this proposal goes by emergency procedure. And who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railways. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 75 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 12 against and this final proposal for a law on amendments and additions goes according to an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There isn't. The completion of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89504	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In February of this year we reached a conclusion as a club of HSS which we asked the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report on the state of transport in the Republic of Croatia with an emphasis on the implementation of the National Road Transport Programme for 2005 and 2006. It's been over five months. We know that in 2006 compared to the year before, we have a number of car accidents, deaths and injuries. Here, we see according to this agenda proposal that that's the 39th point. Obviously in the summer session, we won't open this point. I think we should because the simple state of traffic security is bad, people die on the roads and we put this important point for more than five months just on the tail of events. Today's 39th, two weeks ago she was 30, three months ago she was also 20. I ask you to try to open this topic to improve the state of traffic safety and to reduce the number of accidents and deaths as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89505	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of this session to the next points. - Final proposal of the Privacy Act, second reading, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on organic production of agricultural and food products, P.Z.E. - Proposal for a Household Protection Act against infectious diseases, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for an Inland Water Project, an emergency procedure, - Proposal for a Law on Real Estate Intervention, First Reading, and - Selection of Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia Article 205. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, three laws have been proposed, of which two laws bear the P.Z.E. code. the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161; We do not vote in our Rules of Procedure, which are: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on organic production of agricultural and food products with the final proposal of the law and others, - Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Households against Infectious Diseases with the final proposal of the law. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Internal Water Project? There isn't. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Internal Water Project? HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89506	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to Article 238a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the HDZ Club requires that the vote be held by hand, because part of the MPs has come to us, there is no key at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89507	The quorum? 83 MPs and MPs. We can vote! So who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law, the loan agreement for, between Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the internal water project, which weighs around 100 million euros? Against? There isn't. I confirm that, unanimously with 83 votes, this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There isn't. The addition, the other points I suggested earlier?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89508	Mr. President! The first thing I have to protest on behalf of the Croatian Party Club is the right to this legislative stampede that is always being introduced before the summer or winter break. Namely, the MPs only received yesterday afternoon in a caslic legislative proposal, we couldn't even take them and discussions were already held on committees. This really isn't a good way to work the Croatian Assembly. The government's had enough time this year. In the end, she hurried into the seventh speed of all legal texts and we know how unquality they are. Therefore, it is also a question of the regularity of the work of this session when most MPs do not have the material on them at all and are already on board sessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89509	Thank you. Gentlemen and ladies MPs, I would like to propose an addition of the agenda with two points: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, an emergency procedure, and - Proposal for a law on the addition of pensions to the Pension Insurance Act. Any objections to the emergency procedure? ... There's a problem. Let's let go of the other one. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'd be working a long time tonight, we've got a lot of it. Because tomorrow we should discuss the Law on the Protection of Information, the Security Checks Act and all other laws, Friday would be a debate on the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court and the vote. We should have on Friday and a vote on the 10 items already discussed on the agenda of the rest of the last session of the rebalancing of the state budget, the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, the Value Added Tax and that set of laws relating to the Law on Foreigners, the Law on Asylum, the Strategy on Migration Policy, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright, on Waste, the Chamber of Engineers, Wires, Audiovisual etc. And the vote on all this, the vote of what is today and what will be discussed tomorrow so that we have, today and tomorrow should work with a full pair. Today we should get to the bottom of the 25th point, that truth has 6, 7 or 5, 6 confirmation contracts, so we clean everything up nicely for Friday so we can have a vote on all this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89510	Here I am absolutely to get into the agenda of this law, I will call him about old and new pensioners. I think it's one big moral obligation for all of us in this House, but I'm asking you to give us at least 24 hours to say that you'll let us consult tomorrow and we'll discuss it on Friday. That's just my suggestion, and let him go into procedure because it needs to come into effect as soon as possible. Not with 1.1, but with...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89511	How are we going to discuss Friday if we should leave clear for the vote Friday on the Constitutional Court's election of judges, eight judges. When you take the procedure that it takes, perhaps the second round, it takes a very long time, that technology takes a lot of time. We can discuss these laws and do the same tomorrow afternoon. ... It'll be 24 hours. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We can discuss them tomorrow afternoon. So there's plenty of time. We received calculations on how many alcoholic beverages were consumed in 2006 so that some 2.5 thousand liters of beer was drunk for the whole year, 2006. So that's for the whole year. The wine is about 450 liters, and the heavy drinks are about 50 liters for the whole year at the restaurant and coffee shop. And then they're still going to film you, aren't they? Are there any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these two laws? There isn't. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act? Thank you. Against? Unanimity with 78. Who is responsible for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Retirement Act under the Pension Insurance Act? Thank you. Against? Unanimity with 78. Thank you very much. The completion of the agenda has been established. And there it is, at 8:00, twenty-five points. I'm interrupting the session. Tomorrow we begin at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the final proposal of the Data Securitisation Act and the final proposal of the Information Security Act, and then on amendments to the Law on Pension Insurance and the Law on Supplement to Pensions by the Law on Pension Insurance, and the Law on the Completion of the Environmental Production Act, the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases, the confirmation of the Treaty on Loan between the Croatian International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Internal Water Project, the Law on Transport of Property, the Law on the Selection of Judges of the Constitutional Court. So tomorrow we could conclude discussions on all these points and go to a marathon vote on everything that's closed on Friday. And on Saturday, the way to the sea and the road to Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89514	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will ask my question to the President of the Croatian Government Dr. Evey Sanader. President, for you, for the President of the Parliament, for the president of the state, for the Minister of Justice and for Attorney General Mladen Bajic, I have been concerned lately. It's up to you to introduce a very angry friend of Đura the race from Novi Sad. In fact, he's asking you to pay him 6 billion euros for our people, otherwise former carriers, so-called. Household rights. What's this about? '90s. and '91. In the years when Croatia hit a dangerous virus from the east, many of our people went to our neighbouring friendly and brotherly country of Serbia, where they have relatives to help care for them, and the other part remained on one third of Croatian state territory barricaded defending themselves against the antivirus so as not to enter among them, and there they were protected by the largest blacksmithy of brotherly and unity, as we popularly called it in three letters JNA. In such a situation as one of these Martić's humanitarian aid workers, and they were chefs, waiters, electricians,... Sanity, etc., others have treated their sick relatives and, of course, they have forgotten their tenancy rights under such circumstances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the virus was rehabilitated and there was no longer a need for humanitarian Martic's work and medical care of their relatives, these Croatian citizens addressed a friend, Đuri Trkulji, and he now asks on their behalf 6 billion euros to be paid for during their time until they applied their tenancy rights. My question is, will you and when will you pay an angry friend Đuri these 6 billion euros for the humanitarian work of Martić and because they have treated their sick relatives and of course when they will be and will you receive Đura, because he says if you do not receive him as angry as he is that he will be even more angry? And by the way, if it's possible that these humanitarians were Martic's boys, how do you comment on yesterday's court verdict? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89515	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89516	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I think, like all Croatian people, that with great relief I welcomed yesterday's ruling by the Hague court. It is about war criminal Martic, who was one of the axes of Serbia's aggression against Croatia. We know that aggression was made by Milosevic's policy, the Milosevic regime. It was attended by JNA, Serbia, Montenegro, but also by the rebel Serbs and Croatia and that is the historical truth. She was also confirmed by yesterday's verdict. We will never forget the crimes committed by the great Serb aggression in Croatia and must never forget those crimes. But also some justice should be said to do some justice both in Croatia and in Serbia, because there are still war criminals who are in Serbia and the co-operation of the Croatian State Attorney's Office and the Serbian State's Attorney's Office as well as the Montenegrin State's Attorney's Office must be at European level. This means that if they are not available to the Croatian judiciary, these criminals must be tried in Serbia and Montenegro and that is something that is minimal in order to satisfy justice, in order to satisfy all that we have experienced since the 1990s. until '95, and then I can say until January 15, '98. when Vukovar and Croatian Podunavlje are integrated into the constitutional legal order of Croatia. These fantasies that this gentleman is talking about, this gentleman is not anything but an attempt to take money, because he cannot endanger Croatia or threaten the prime minister, nor any other state official, nor can he ask for reception because he will not be admitted. But what he's doing is dangerous for those people who are dealing with him, because he's going to take money from them so he can represent them in front of what he doesn't know, that he doesn't know what he's going to do, but he knows what he wants to take. They want to take money from them. So I appeal to these people in Vojvodina, Serbia, wherever he comes to them to get out of the way, which means working with that man.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89517	Representative Ivo Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89518	Mr. President of the Croatian Government! A friend of Đurak says he's spoken to both the SDS and he's arranged everything with them, and like they're going to solve it all. Well, don't we have our people in the SDS? Well, that's where our Racha, Boy, Mic and others are, so we should tell our friend Đura, hey Đura, stop, we have our own boyfriends too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89519	Second question, Honorable Agent William Herman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89520	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I have repeatedly asked questions about "Agrobanks" in Osijek, a bank that should have an extremely investment policy, unlike some commercial one, and that it should be focused on agriculture, crafts and a little entrepreneurship. Years passed, and on several occasions I heard from the prime minister the answers, and I asked him the question, that the profession was saying that it shouldn't actually be done to, or at least to weigh part of the profession and it was quite hard to stand on. Years passed, time lost, and now there's something commendable to be said. We're on the verge of a draft of this Agrobank. However, within the framework of the Croatian Post Bank and not based in Osijek, but well. What is very important is what happens, Slavonia and Baranja, in fact, Osijek gets a significant financial point. But what amazes me here is, firstly, that there was opposition to the prime minister by calling on the profession. And the possible question is, did Mr. Prime Minister actually do something behind your back? As far as I'm concerned, it would be very good if it was done, even behind the back. And if it wasn't, then it would be good again, as much as it might cause a sensation, but it would be best for you to say such a nice, human, truly human, so I'm sorry, it's been a long time, but we're finally able to realize that project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89521	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89522	I didn't understand the question, Mr. Representative, but I will answer your...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89523	It doesn't answer your question, so you don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89524	... You're asking some suggestions, which I'm supposed to do, and you haven't asked a question. [[Specially enabled.]] And I will now use your suggestions to send a very clear message that after "Vicor Lenca" we will solve and bankrupt the City Bank of Osijek. It was a question that may have been contained in your question a few years ago about the establishment of Agrobank in Osijek. It was content. But you never asked explicits what we're going to do with the bankruptcy, with that bank? And above all, what are we going to do with the savings? And we're taking care of the savings because these days we've made a decision and made a decision on the relevant DABA bodies, the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks, to leave her first place, to leave her to the savings. So four and a half thousand savings from Osijek City Bank are still in place of DABA. That's about 180 million kuna. After the process, and already the payments started and started now these days in June, after that process, the savings will be calmed down, the DAB takes over property and withdraws its lawsuits. So, savings withdraws their lawsuits, all court proceedings are eliminated, DAB takes over all property of the City Bank of Osijek in bankruptcy. With this property, the Croatian postal bank has capitalized on that, which then does not do that, because that is where we agreed and there is an agreement, so nothing was done behind the back but with absolute support from the beginning. But it was a hard case like Victor Lance. Since you were in the last government, you didn't solve each other. But as soon as you came to the opposition, you immediately began to attack when Agrobank will. I didn't ask you a question, why didn't you solve Agrobank? We're handling it now. First we solve savings, then we solve the bankruptcy of the City Bank and then the HPB at the end of the process opens a business, agri-business in Osijek. So there will be no new banks, the new Agrobanks in Osijek but will be the business of the Croatian Post Bank to deal with agro-business. This is good news and for the savings, this is good news for Osijek, this is good news for Osijek-Baranja County, this is good news for everyone who deals with agriculture in Slavonia /Applause./ [[/Intruder: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89525	Representative William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89526	... and your summoning and the question of what I did. [[Specially enabled.]] It's done a lot. First of all, the question of the idea and realization of the project has been raised. I don't have a guilty conscience, so I'm here to expose you and tell you what's been done. But one of the amendments to amending the Banks Act was precisely my amendment to saving into a higher payment order. That's what you could call yourself when you made a deal with DAB. So much for that. But it's something else. Now I don't have to quote your answer to my asked question that was fourth or fifth. And I'm actually glad that here it is, now at the end of the term of office you can say, yeah, on one of the projects I've been working on and helping out, what's most important, its end. But specifically in April 2004, Mr. Prime Minister, I wouldn't want to piss you off, you're saying the profession isn't for the project. You are calling on the mayor of Bubal, you are conducting your presentation in Osijek by saying that unfortunately there will be nothing of it. That's why my concern, isn't there something you might have done behind your back? If it's done to you in front of your face, it's done to you, then don't give me the words you've given me. Be calm and let's go together and say, for Slavonia, what was meant to be done is done.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89527	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89528	Do something else, let the bank be independent...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89529	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Djapic. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89530	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Before asking the Mayor of Osijek, we thank and congratulate on this good news for the citizens of Osijek. Now allow the question, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. So, from a few days ago, the competent state institution, so the Croatian police, the judicial authorities in eastern Slavonia have launched several investigative actions to commit war crimes in eastern Croatia, which is also in the job description of both Croatian police and judicial authorities. Unfortunately, the correct conduct of work by state institutions has been welcomed by one fierce controversy and attacks by the political elite of the Serb community in Croatia, who have been in mutual turmoil to prove who is the larger Serb in Croatia have found, of course, someone who could be threatened with the finger and attack him that this someone is responsible for the pressure on the judiciary, the police, specifically I mean yesterday's statements by the leader of the SDSS otherwise a coalition partner in this or that form of the ruling majority who said that individuals of the Croatian party of rights in eastern Slavonia are putting pressure on the Croatian judiciary and related to the detection and investigation of war crimes. This is an eclectic example of meddling in the work of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia, causing great damage to international Croatian foreigners who have nothing to do with these procedures of the Croatian police, finally the interior minister is a member of the Croatian Democratic Community because he has no contact whatsoever, we do not have any. And I am interested in Mr. President how you react to such qualifications coming from the order of the party which, to a greater or smaller extent, supports the parliamentary majority, because, as you know, the Croatian Party is applying... a mere party and certainly when a party belonging to the ruling coalition is giving us these assessments as a party that is certainly making this program difficult for us, the path that we have plotted for ourselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is, and the additional question is, do you intend to talk to Mr. Pupovac about this statement and ask him what are his arguments and evidence that he accused the Croatian party of putting pressure on the Croatian police and on the Croatian judiciary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89531	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89532	First of all, thank you for your congratulations on the solution to the long-standing agony of the City Bank of Osijek. And on that case, we've shown that there's no problem, there's no challenge we can't solve. I also thank those who helped solve the case. As for this statement by Mr. Pupovac, I saw her yesterday. I have to say that he spoke as a representative and that he spoke as a man who has an opinion that I do not share, I do not share that opinion with him. I have no record or indication that members of the Croatian party of rights would put any pressure on the judiciary, I do not have such indications. But instead of accepting your proposal so that I can talk to him I suggest that as his fellow parliamentary representative of the Croatian Party you speak to him, tell you if he has any reasons, if he has any indications, if he has any evidence that any of your members have been putting some kind of pressure on the judiciary. Since you are both MPs, that in Croatia it is worth freedom of opinion and expression, and that we all stand up for it, I think it's okay for you two to talk first and as far as I'm concerned, and I'm ready to talk about what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89533	Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89534	Mr. President, but I am not satisfied with this other part of the answer for the reason Mr. Pupovac is attacking the institutions. So, he makes it clear that under the pressure of one political party, a single state institution is subject to a practical crime, so that we are now pressuring and he said it in the context of a very difficult political for the Croatian government he said that he will not go with thousands of charges against Serbs who, according to the estimates of state institutions, did aggressor spells against Croatia so that they could not enter the European Union. So, I think it's primarily a question of the relationship between your cooperation. As far as we're concerned, we don't have anything to talk to Mr. Pupovac about because we're really very strict about the law and whether one of us, not only of HSP members or HDZ members or SDP members, had some knowledge and indications of events in the Homeland War, is the duty of a citizen to report to a situation and it's on the police's side that the police would eventually do some cleaning of that information. Therefore, I appeal to you in the best way to warn your coalition partner not to make such a lightly difficult statement about HSP because it causes us great damage in the international image of the Croatian party of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89535	Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89536	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues and colleagues. My question is about the participation of Croatian police officers in peacekeeping missions. Namely, it is known that in previous missions, the M.O.P. has been represented by 34 police officers. I refer my question to Minister Kirina. I ask you, Mr. Minister, to inform us of the current involvement of our police officers in peacekeeping missions, which requires an additional increase in the number of Croatian police officers in UN-sponsored peacekeeping missions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89537	Minister Ivica Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89538	Dear President of the Parliament, Honorable Representative Culjak. In line with the involvement of the Republic of Croatia in the global peace processes, the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia has contributed intensively for two and a half years to strengthening international security through participation in international peace missions. ... Some people think it's a joke. They think it's a circus. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Since January 2005, police officers from the interior ministry have been participating in UN peacekeeping missions in UN peacekeeping missions in Kosovo, eastern Timor, Cyprus, where fourteen police officers are currently deployed. In addition to participating in peacekeeping missions, Croatian police officers participate in NATO and ISAF missions in Afghanistan, an 18 police officers from the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia have been deployed at the International Training Centre in Jordan. For their exemplary and professional work and for the overall contribution to peace missions in Cyprus, Kosovo and East Timor, our police officers received UN medals while officials hired in Jordan received medals that were decorated by Jordanian King Abdullah II on behalf of Hashemite Kingdom. During the visit of the President of the Republic of Croatia, our centre was indicated the further possibility of the involvement of the MUP instructors and after the closure of the centre announced for the end of August 2007. So far, 30 and four police officers have been involved in all missions including those currently involved in the mission, all of which resulted in exceptional results, and after one year of participation in peacekeeping missions, we were entrusted with the International Course for Police Officers, which is being referred to the peace missions held in Valbandon and the next international course was announced for the end of September of this year. After multiple requests from the UN Department of Peace Operations to increase the existing police... in the procedure we referred a proposal to increase the contingent...... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the Peace Commission, a mission in Kosovo for 5 additional employees and for one additional official in the Cyprus mission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, since the 7th of this year, two other officials have been going to East Timur. One of the reasons why our officers are valued in international missions is that the Croatian police were created in the Homeland War, under the most difficult conditions, war conditions and this vast experience we have is invaluable and recognized by international institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89539	Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89540	So here is your answer, in fact, to the participation of the Croatian military and police in these peacekeeping missions, to prove that Croatia is also the place in all these aspirations that Croatia has to join NATO and also the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89541	Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89542	Thank you very much. I wanted to ask the question of the Minister of Science, Education and Sports to Mr Dragan Primorac, but I will ask him to be Mr Nevia Šetić, State Secretary in the same ministry. Building a sports hall of secondary and elementary schools in Pula is a project of the Croatian and Italian governments of Istria County and the city of Pula. And although the budget of the Republic of Croatia for years has not really started until recently because of reasons I do not want to speculate but be assured that it is located in your Ministry where some people have been sitting for so long in sensitive positions that they must have lost consciousness about the change of ministers and live in the belief that they are still sitting there... Yet eight months ago the project started because you signed, signed the contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The artist was chosen, so we started thinking that the construction was going to start, so eight months ago. The months, however, passed after the signature so that they forgot all about it in Pula and began to think that something was going on, that the badgers were there. Of course it wasn't like that. What did the Croatian press and the Italian press write about even today? Somewhere in April, Mr. Janjic and I began to explore what was actually going on in your ministry and we discovered that in the catacombs of that same ministry still the papers were still standing because they did not send a request for multi-year borrowing which to our surprise was needed after the contract was signed which is one nonsensus. We did that, and it's been two months, and nothing happened. My question is very simple. It's been two months and the construction hasn't started. The hall must be finished in March and the work has not yet begun. You're doing your job, Mr. Secretary of State. Mr. Janjic is doing his job. I'm doing my job. It's a simple question. Who in your ministry doesn't do their job?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89543	Thank you very much. State Secretary Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89544	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Representative, I can answer you very briefly that it is only a matter of days when the works at the hall will begin because the word is as you have noticed that the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is now due to multi-annual borrowing. Everything else, all other jobs have been completed, and I can tell you about this as an Istranian and as a Puljanin that I am in contact with both school and as a citizen there talking and I assure you that, here we are about to begin and we can say that the deadlines will be satisfied until when the hall will be built.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89545	Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89546	Thank you very much. I'm as glad as Istrian that you are Istranin and that you know the situation. I'll tell you another thing. All the constructions made for the Italian minority are made for Croatian citizens and 50% are cheaper because the Italian government gives 50% of the funds. I'd ask you to tell those sitting down there for years to tell them to start that construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89547	Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89548	Thank you very much. I'm asking my question to the Minister of the Interior. Minister Kirin, on May 24th, you told three journalists that you found out who puts your famous performances on the Internet portals following a trail of servers. In this respect, you have admitted before the public the committing of a criminal offence described in Article 223. Criminal law as a violation of secrecy, integrity and availability of computer data, programs or systems. I'm not interested in your criminal responsibility right now. This should be dealt with by the persecution bodies and the police, which is unlikely as long as you are the minister of the resort. Police are dealing with overlapping, not detecting crimes when ministers are the best witness to the Brodosplit case. At the heart of my interest is your political responsibility. Whether you really ordered the Internet portal server tracking or just said you did it. With your statement, you have introduced unrest and uncertainty among all Internet users and fear of coming under the influence of your repressive apparatus for accessing the Internet. It's exactly the same as saying that you've come to the data on what pre-election campaigns of certain parties will look like by opening the mail of their parliamentary deputies. I don't know if you're aware of the meaning of your statement? I don't know if you're aware of the political damage you've caused the country's reputation. But my question is quite brief and logical. Minister Kirin, when will you resign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89549	Minister Ivica Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89550	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Stazic. As a minister, I must repeat one more thing to you because obviously you who handle communication skills do not understand Croatian well. I haven't and I've denied it several times, but obviously you're not interested in the truth. Because you knew that day when my statements were reportedly announced that we had a government meeting in Virovitica. And you knew that I was hosting there as a minister and you invited me right here to the Parliament to come, to explain these statements. I do not know who authorized you to speak on behalf of the Internet public, but if you are not really guilty and if what you are saying in the towers is that SDP is not doing it, then why are you so rebelling and why try to serve me as Minister of the Interior that I used the Ministry of the Interior to do such things? Although Internet experts have also explained to you MP experts that the process is actually going to establish such a thing. It obviously wasn't enough for you. But today, here you are, and you've made me a nice ad here in the House to prove once again that you're not always up to the truth, but not to the dignity of this House, but you've still gone to keep my political responsibility, or to resign. It is as if I would ask you to resign because you have failed the obvious principles of your party that you have previously outlined. And we could be so politically viewed indefinitely. But the Croatian public is tired of political games. Because there are big problems in this society that need to be solved. Mr. Stazic, I can't safely beat you in your communication skills, and what you should know as a parliamentary representative, who you swore in this House, is that the Minister of the Interior has no authority to order such investigations. But for that, there are authorized police officers based on a court order. Maybe the times when you did it have passed. But while this government is, while this ministry is not going to do such things. And I as a young man who is not a police officer by profession want us to have an institution that will protect all of his citizens, regardless of faith, political commitment... And you can ask the party president to resign. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89551	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89552	Minister Kirin, you say there are authorized police officers who can do this on the basis of the court's authority. Well, we know that. But you said you were doing it, and you don't have the jurisdiction of the court. Well, that's the problem. Mr. President, can you...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89553	Peace, peace!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89554	Mr. President, can you restrain your party colleagues?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89555	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89556	And can you ask them not to turn off my microphone or let me come to the pay phone?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89557	Here you go. Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89558	You're asking Minister Kirin why we're rebelling? So we rebel in the interest of the Internet public, we rebel in the interests of the general public. The only thing we care about is the truth. We're always trying to figure out if you ordered it, which is why you...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89559	Order!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89560	...which is why you said you ordered, if you didn't order. You say you denied it. But the journalist you told me about it denied it. And she said that all your words were accurately and faithfully transmitted. So, Minister Kirin, I'll see you on the parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89561	Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89562	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, on 15 December 2006, you gave the honorary word in this House that since 1 January 2008, the decision to declare the ZERP will apply to all members of the European Union. With that opportunity, Parliament also supported and made such a decision in the debate, although this was the 3rd delay in the application of the decision already postponed. However, I remind you of the three conclusions of the Croatian Assembly made on that occasion. These conclusions have required the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare a proposal for a rebalancing of the State budget to establish positions and increased funds for the modernisation and renewal of the fishing fleet, for the development of projects and construction of fishing wholesalers. Further for the construction of fishing ports and the purchase of coast guard transport. Since this session is the last session before the summer break, and in point 3. The conclusion of this obligation was right up to the summer break or until the spring work of the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking where the budget rebalance is, because we didn't get it, it's not the agenda point. So where is the money to prepare Croatia, to activate the decision of ZERP from 1.1 next year, the fishing fleet, fishing majors, coast guard and the restoration of the fishing fleet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89563	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89564	Mr. Representative June 13th is today, St. Ante, all the Ants congratulating, the Tonches, etc., the name of the day. And the Parliament ends on July 13th that regular part, so the spring session. Rebalance is being made in the Ministry of Finance. When we make it and it's adopted in the government, we send it to the Parliament. So the rebalancing will be and there will be items in terms of strengthening and fishing fleets and all that we have concluded together. And I am pleased that in December 2006, HNS joined the Government's proposal to do everything possible to enable our fishermen to be equal to others, to protect the Croatian fishing-environmental belt and to apply it from 1 January 2008 to all. So the rebalancing is coming and there will be these items in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89565	Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89566	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm not happy with your answer. Because the issue of the rebalancing of the State budget is not something to discuss in Parliament for two hours. You knew when the session of this Parliament ended and I expected you as Prime Minister I know it's a month, but let Parliament also have the right to study and read and have time to read the rebalancing proposals. [[Intruder: A month.]] That's the first one. Secondly, secondly, obviously also by delaying the preparation and delivery of the State budget to Parliament, you want to create a deadline. And third, let me give my opinion, and third, if you had seriously planned that rebalancing would have been prepared. But you know that the next year, when that decision of ZERP is activated, it won't be your responsibility because you won't be prime minister. That's why you're acting like one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89567	Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89568	Thank you. My question is to Mr. Prime Minister, Dr. Evey Sanader. We all know very well that Croatian electricity is one of the remaining monopolies in Croatia. Technically not, anyone can connect to someone else's electrical system, but those other systems don't. So all the big consumers are connected to Croatia's electricity industry. Croatia's electricity sector reduced profits in last year to half in 2005. That wasn't enough for the Croatian government, nor for you as prime minister to replace the President of the Administration, Mr. Ivan Antzak. Obviously, work doesn't go as well as it should. Afterwards Mr. Ivan Mravak hired his wife in one of the daughters, HEP's daughter in Elektra Zagreb, an older daughter in one of the daughters of HEP's daughter and now employs or employs a younger daughter. So it shows a nice propensity for nepotism. Mr. Prime Minister, don't you think that such behaviour at this point in Croatia today is actually not acceptable and that it shows one sense of haughtiness that all political forces in Croatia have paid at one time? My question is very simple, when will you change the gentleman? Especially since I have information to say one of the directors of one of the daughters of HEP... When do you intend to remove Mr. Ant from the post of president of HEP? [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89569	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89570	Mr. Representative, I'll answer it simply and briefly. I didn't know they were changing until now, and it wasn't that practice. Presidents of the company management who do positive business, you listed to him, president of the administration, as an evil fact that a year before he did business with more profits than a year later, but you didn't deny doing business a year later with the profit, and I think we should agree on the criteria then. If you propose criteria for changing the presidents of public companies' administrations, is that when the profit is reduced or every time in the new year the profit has to be greater than it was last year? That would be nice, but we know that we live in such circumstances and that we live on the market and that we live in a globalizing world where circumstances are impossible to increase profits from year to year. Therefore, when you give us suggestions for the criteria when to change and if they are good, we will consider them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89571	Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89572	Thank you. Of course, the criterion shouldn't be to get a flood from year to year, but the profit should remain at least the same. But my question was about nepotism, Mr. Prime Minister. Do you encourage and support nepotism? If that's the case, I've got a list of a dozen people I'd deliver to you to hire them in such companies. A fellow Lesar has a list of 10 Međimurians who would be happy to get a job, or is it always a party card?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89573	Representative Velimir Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89574	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. My question is for Mr. Roncevic's defence minister. Last week, Croatian Prime Minister Dr. Sanader, along with the presidents of the government of Albania and Macedonia, was at a meeting in Tirana with US President Bush. The importance of President Bush's message from Tirana last week has not only been confirmed but several times expressed support, for the first time to meet with the Prime Minister Dr. With the Washington Sanader at the end of last year and shortly thereafter at the NATO summit in Riga, there is already confirmation that Croatia has done most of the work on the road and that most of the work has been done. Strengthening NATO's popularity in Croatia has shown that the NATO campaign in Croatia results. It has shown an important communication strategy in which citizens need to be explained not only what NATO is today, but what it will be in the future. Mr. Minister, what is the role in this NATO support to the ministry that you are in charge of and how many communication strategies are being implemented with you have an impact on this support that the NATO public has?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89575	Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89576	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I thank you for this question. Another occasion in front of the Croatian public repeats the Croatian government's position. Joining the European Union and NATO alliance, two strategic goals of Croatian foreign policy and NATO as the best insurance policy, the Republic of Croatia and all its citizens. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a communication strategy for Croatia's NATO membership in September 2006 and remained a very short message to Croatian citizens not entering NATO, the Ministry of Defence is not entering NATO, the state is entering NATO. Certainly a large role is played by the Ministry of Defence since NATO as a system of values has both its strong defence and military component. The purpose of the strategy is to explain to Croatian citizens the values of NATO, to remove the prejudices that remain in NATO in the Croatian public. Therefore, roundtables, seminars, lectures, NATO conferences, public stands for citizens of the Republic of Croatia, a lot of personal contacts between all government members, all officials gave a very short period of application of this communication strategy a great result, an increasing number of citizens recognise the value of NATO and the Croatian government will insist on this communication strategy and acting through all resolutions. NATO is reflected in all Croatian government portfolios and we will work to further popularise NATO's value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89577	Representative Velimir Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89578	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your reply. I am convinced that soon next spring, Croatia will receive the new most powerful democratic legitimacy by entering the NATO alliance. Also with the invitation to membership, Croatia will get the conditions for achieving a more modern and efficient armed force and the possibility of reducing defence spending, while in international relations it will be positioned as a stable and perspective democracy. And I think it is important in any case to point out that it will be one of the greatest successes of this government, which at the same time will be, perhaps in some modified composition, but with the same mandate within Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89579	Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89580	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll ask the defence minister, Mr. Roncevic. Mr. Minister, a short time ago, a young man named Brkic was arrested at the border, an investigation was carried out, a lawyer's office was notified, a lawsuit filed and a court case concluded by a settlement under which he received 11 months in prison suspended for 3 years. The moment this happens, Brkic is 32 years old, and I am informed of the obligation to serve the military term. I'm adding the next thing. The man left Zagreb in '93. 17 years old. He has not received any invitation to military service or any act, nor is he directly familiar with any obligation of that kind. By the way, he's a citizen of other states. We've learned that such cases, in which documents are on hold or on the border or somewhere else, are larger numbers, several hundred. It's my question. What is the legal, military, political or logical reason to be prosecuted and punished by prison at the age of 32, even though no official communication was established or given a solution to which he could react? And what is the interest or interest of the Republic of Croatia justifies such a procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89581	Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89582	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. MP! The reason is the equality of all citizens before the law. Mr. Brkic is a military official after 18 years, first as a recruit, later as a military officer, in the event that he is not granted an objection by a military official with compulsory military service, which is clearly elaborated in the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. He did not fulfil his obligation, regardless of the fact that as a 17-year-old as you speak he left the Republic of Croatia, did not ask for a discharge or was fired from Croatian citizenship, his obligation is the same. Therefore, under the Defence Act, he was obliged to report to the diplomatic consular office of the Republic of Croatia in the country where he resided. He didn't make that commitment. And he committed a crime of not giving up the call and avoiding military service. This procedure is carried out against all Croatian citizens who do not fulfil their obligation under the law. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thanks to the fact that the certainty of the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the NATO Alliance is now clearer, time-defined, has proposed amendments to the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces, which will be held at the second reading in this House by 13 July. We are able to introduce a suspension of mandatory military service. As the State's Attorney's office will treat the cases found, whether it will persist in the prosecution, I can't tell you, it's a matter of the State's Attorney's office. However, applications are filed on the basis of the law and on the basis of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia equally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89583	Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89584	Mr. Minister! I can't say that you don't have a formal legal cover for your explanation. But I don't think there's a cover for two other things. One is the circumstances in which this occurred and another is the fact that even in this House, this moment or these days or in this time, we are talking about the idea of abolishing military service. I don't think there's a good correspondence between the facts of living circumstances and the arguments that we're defending this event. I'd like to ask you a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89585	Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89586	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister! Due to the internal political needs of calming the Croatian public, every time a problem arises with the Hague charges, for example, in publishing accusations of so-called, the emphasis is on the so-called. The criminal enterprise of the Croatian Civil and Military Summit, led by the first and unfortunately late President Tudjman, who led Croatia on the defence and liberation war, and for the last time such a case following the discovery of the settlement of prosecutor Carla del Ponte with Belgrade on the cover-up of key evidence in connection with the aggression of JNA on Croatia, the Croatian public upset and bitterly indignant by so much injustice and injustice towards Croatia, among other things, tried to calm the promises and announcements of complaints that you will send to the UN Security Council. We checked at the UN headquarters in New York, are there any official complaints from the Croatian government on the work of Carla del Ponte or The Hague Court? And we've determined that you've never made a complaint to the Security Council. Why Mr. Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89587	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89588	Mr. Representative! First of all, I am pleased that today, eight years after President Tudjman's death, you speak so highly of him. ... Finally. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because at a time when he, democratically, led Croatia as President of the Republic in a different system, half-presidentially, you were angry with the opponents. And you criticized that policy. Now, in one acrobat leap, you praise Tudjman to perhaps establish some kind of virtual so, the artificial opposite of today's government or today's HDZ with that. No, I don't. As we did yesterday, so do we today. We stand in the same positions, and we don't change our minds the way you do. You didn't support the important decisions of Franjo Tudjman in key moments. Today you set it for us as an example of what we should do. Both yesterday and today, our answer to you is the same. We know when to make a move, and so does the one you were talking about. /Applause./ [[- Insect: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89589	Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89590	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. My question was not about the late President Tudjman, but about your promise, Mr. Prime Minister, on at least two occasions spoken here, for this, in this Chamber, in this House, that the Croatian Government will appeal to the Security Council. My question was to you, why didn't you do it? It's just that. And I wasn't talking about Franjo Tudjman's role. I will also speak commendably of all the leaders of the Croatian people when they one day deserve that piet. Therefore,... So, even about you, even though I don't want it to happen quickly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But in any case, Mr. Prime Minister, instead of expressing my satisfaction, I will tell you, I will answer you with the quote of Louis Borhesse. "Neither vengeance nor forgiveness nor even forget can change history." Please! You're complaining to the Security Council about the prosecution's actions, Carla del Ponte. It's your responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89591	Representative Petar Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89592	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr. Peter Cobankovic. Mr Minister, after measures have been implemented to prevent the occurrence and spread of classical swine fever resulting in euthanasia of nearly fifteen thousand pigs in Croatia, significantly reducing their number. Please inform us of the current situation with your pig. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89593	Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89594	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Let me say that exactly the strict implementation of measures to prevent the spread of classical swine fever has yielded its certain results. The results are that the disease is in the descending path, that the growing number of units of local self-government considered to be infected and endangered areas and that in the end there are fewer cases of classical swine fever disease. Normally, such a disease has also caused certain disturbances that have occurred and have occurred in the field. Introducing a ban on traffic at cattle fairs, which was one of the key measures to prevent further spread that certain problems of pig placement occurred in small economies. For these reasons, the ministry and the government organised interventions in two rounds of intervention ransom, the second round is still under way. So far, a 60,000-pound circus has been bought. And if there is still a need to solve extra pigs in small pigs, because the fact that in organized goods there is no problem with the plasmas will continue with the intervention forms of buying-ins in order not to disrupt the market. And as for your question, I can answer you with numbers. Practically, when we compete, we take 2007 the first four months and 2005 then we currently have 50% of the pigs in 2007 more than we had in 2005. When we go back a year and compete in 2007 and 2004, then the percentage is even higher, and then we can say that we have 60% of the pigs in this. This proves that there was no reduction in the population and loads of pigs, but that there was an increase. On the other hand, the same time that we competed with foreign trade was then imported by 43% less pig meat in 2007 compared to 2005. For the same period for the first four months of 2007 compared to last year, less than 21% of pigmeat and pigmeat-based processing was imported. This ultimately shows that exactly the way in which the non-vaccination of swine fever is done is not in conflict with the development of pig loads, but rather it is something that gives an additional impulse because the introduction of measures prohibiting vaccination against swine fever is eliminated and imports from all countries that continue to vaccinate pigs with classical swine fever and where prices are significantly lower than in the countries of the European Union and Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89595	Representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89596	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm completely happy with your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89597	Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89598	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the government. I'm asking my representative a question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivy Sanader. Mr. President, I believe that you are familiar with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, which was adopted at the session on 7 July 2006 and sent to the Government on 10 July 2006 and it reads: "The first reading is delayed on the Proposal for a Law on Pensions of Croatian citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro with residence in the Republic of Croatia. Given that there are indications of violations of human rights of Croatian citizens in respect of pension insurance rights, it is proposed to determine the actual situation. Secondly, the legislator is called on to find, in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a solution as quickly as possible and then a permanent solution to this problem." On two occasions, I wrote a rush to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and a rush to the President of the Croatian Parliament. I note that it is more than fifteen thousand citizens whose pension is the only source of income and the pension solution says that the amount of pension depends on the mass of funds that foreign insurance companies collect in their register. I am obliged to answer to dear and tormented people whose name I ask this question and the question is when will the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the competent ministry, honour the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament or whether the executive authority has the right to ignore the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament for so long.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89599	Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89600	Mr. Representative, I know this issue better than you do because I have spoken to these people and their representatives on several occasions. And what needs to be said to the public is that, on my invitation, you too have to engage in a single action which must be preceded by what you are talking about, which is by no means neglecting the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, but by finding a solution because we are looking for a solution to help these people. I personally saw that they have 8 kuna pension cuts or 20 converting marks from Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I know what it's about and we're working on it. And with you who, from time to time, remember that we have a representative here among us, when I talk about HDZ, from Mrs Babić-Petricevic, Bagaric, Cosic and others who talk about it all the time and meet people and talk about it. What I appeal to you to help us in this action that we are leading towards Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina to address your letters together with us as we have already done to the governments of the countries concerned to correct this injustice together. But regardless of how the answer will be from Sarajevo, Podgorica and Belgrade, the Croatian government is looking for a solution and will find it. We have solved all the key problems, inherited problems for Croatian pensioners since the repayment of debts, and I am using this opportunity to announce to the Croatian pensioners that by the end of the month the third war of pensioners will be paid, that those 43,000 people who were in the first two wars will be included because of a law that was not clear enough, so we have corrected it, which has also excluded 43,000 people who receive family pensions and are privileged will be included in the payment of this debt war. So those third wars, and those first. Therefore, we also address the issue of gaps between old and new pensioners. And soon expect in the Assembly also a proposal on how to solve this gap that is unfair but in this as well as in this question that you have asked me has, of course, always what you and we have to take care of. And that's to solve problems according to the financial potential of the state. And so finally, this problem is clear to us. We face him all the time but we want them to join us, we can't amnesty the countries where they come from. We can't amnesty. And those governments have to, they have to say it's not like that and they finally start paying them the pensions they deserve. And Croatia will do its part.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89601	Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89602	Mr. President, I'm partly pleased with your response with the intention of getting involved in solving these problems. But I'd like to correct you. We've been dealing with this problem continuously ever since we even wrote the bill. Not from time to time. And in continuity, we remind you that the problem needs to be solved. It's not just about refugees and exiles. It is also about Croatian citizens who have never lived outside the Republic of Croatia one day. Unlike you, we don't expect solutions from foreign insurance, from foreign insurance companies because you and we both know it's about disabled systems that we can't expect a solution from. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They are responsible, but we too are responsible for our people, our citizens not being violated by human rights. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So one synchronised action by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Government and all of us together must be done in this regard. And let me tell you in the end, we are tomorrow or today, whenever you want to be ready for this proposal or some other proposals to activate to find a common solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89603	Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89604	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister and members of the government. I refer my question to the Secretary of State, Mr. Šetić. More for the term of office of the former government in the 2003 budget was the item of building a special school or school for children with special needs in Varazdin. It is that the school includes over 200 children of various damage not only from the town of Varazdin and the county but from all over northwestern Croatia. The first visit of Minister Primorac in early 2004, the talks we had led to the minister's commitment to build a brand-new facility, a whole new school, seeing that the school really includes children above standards. That it averages more children than other Croatian schools and that really children learn and work in, we can say that in inappropriate conditions. But to this day after dozens and dozens of elaborates, evaluations, idea solutions, evidence, certificates we sent to the Ministry, unfortunately we still haven't concluded an agreement on the construction of that school. Why do I mention the agreement? Because the town of Varazdin has no obligation, although you know that special schools are exclusively in the jurisdiction and obligation of your ministry, the town of Varazdin has set aside a plot of 6 thousand squares worth over EUR million and has committed itself to co-finance with 9 million kunas building that school in 3 years. So despite our offer of help to this day, we did not conclude this agreement. The funds are also provided for in the agreement this year. I ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, please, and the Prime Minister, for the sake of these children, not only of the Varazdin, but of children from all over northwestern Croatia, for these children who are different damages and who are successfully working and learning at that school to finally sign this agreement. To take advantage of the construction season this year and start building that building. I'm asking you nicely to finally sign that contract within 15 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89605	State Secretary Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89606	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. I know this question and the Ministry has long been working on this and your letter of 6 April 2007 which you are proposing a co-financing agreement. But I must say that since it is the establishment of the Centre for Education and Education "Tomislav Špoljar" which includes primary school children, high school but also children, or persons who pass 21 years of age according to the rules that exist, the Ministry of Health and Social Care must be involved because it is precisely part of the need to share this investment. Besides, we have such programs and projects somewhere else like Voštnica in Zadar, and we are working intensively to formulate this agreement. So it will need your proposal for an agreement that you sent on 6 April 2007 add this dimension and install to finally reach the building. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports absolutely holds that this facility should be built because it is 215 users of services in this, in this center. So I want to say that in this sense we will continue to solve this problem. And it is expected that in this year they would sign in the fall as soon as possible, as soon as this is agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89607	Representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89608	I'm asking you as an agent, I just want to warn you that you're having trouble with the state administration. You're the head of one ministry. At the end of you sits the Minister of Health who is now, after 3 years at all, told that he will have to engage. I'm asking you what we've been waiting for for three years? It's your internal, your internal question of how much will anyone finance? I'm asking you to make a deal. Minister Ljubičić told me, though verbally, that he would finance the same thing. I'm asking you to make an internal arrangement. Send us a proposal for an agreement. We want to sign it. Let's start building it for the kids, so it doesn't happen now that you're going to be texting each other for a few months. Anyway, the state is all of us, or you're the government. So they're going to build a state. And how much will it fall off to which ministry I ask you to make it your internal agreement. So here you are, if I may ask Mrs. Vice President Kosor to engage since it is, Mrs. Kosor since it is your portfolio to engage. That these two ministries meet because there's no point in us waiting for their internal arrangements now. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89609	Representative Krešimir Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89610	... Your Honor, Madam Minister. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] During your recent official visit to the United States, you met with your colleague, American War Veterans Minister, Mr. Nicholson, as well as representatives of the relevant committees in Congress and the Senate. They visited the central military hospital in... The visit could be the beginning of our long-term co-operation, said Minister Nickolson, given the common interest and the importance of a better and more complete solution to all veterinary and defence problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Special attention during almost all talks was focused on caring for post-traumatic stress disorder, which is also understandable due to the actuality of the weight and the tragic consequences of this severe illness that modern medicine almost 15 years ago did not recognize at all. 17 thousand Croatian defenders with a diagnosis of PTSD, 120 thousand interventions annually at county centres for psychotraum, and over a thousand 700 suicides unfortunately prove the accuracy of those claims that the war also kills those who think they survived it. That is why finding new procedures and methods in treating PTSD or as some call it a "cancer of the soul" one of the priorities and an increasing number of scientific research institutions around the world. New methods and technologies are needed to help treat this serious disease more efficiently and quality. Improving the quality of life of PTSD patients and drastically reducing the number of new suicides is a very important common task. The effectiveness, effectiveness and quality of treatment must be significantly improved, all agree, achieve greater effects with less resources, treat faster, better, cheaper, reduce the number of suicides, and ultimately reduce the increasing costs that many countries are currently spending on treating this severe and severe disease with almost minimal effects in the long term. Dear Madam Vice President, can you say more about your recent visit to the United States as well as your recent return visit to Minister Nickolson during this autumn of Croatia and the importance and importance for the defence population of the Agreement on Cooperation with the American War Veterans Ministry which is in preparation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89611	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89612	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, you said well, it was an extremely important and useful encounter. So at the invitation of an American fellow veteran minister, Mr. Nickolson and his associates, I visited Washington and of course I had there as you said the meetings with the parliamentarians, but also a visit... and finally talking to Minister Nickolson and, of course, with all his associates where the presentation of what the U.S. Veterans Department of the United States is doing in the care of veterans, so the ones from the Vietnam War are here to this day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then what I am pleased to say is that we have agreed on a return visit from Mr. Nickolson to Croatia. After my return, Mr. Nickolson sent a letter confirming it. So, we'll make a deal soon enough. What I think is also good, which is the result of these talks is the announcement of a possible signing of a Joint Cooperation Agreement to resolve, i.e. exchange of experiences and any other possible cooperation in solving the problem of veterans. But just like you said yourself with a special emphasis on defenders, or veterans, suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. What we could also do there are our good experiences in solving all problems, including Croatian defenders who have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder, why we have received some recognitions in talking to the system of care, on the amount of budgets that Croatia allocates. So we compared it to the United States, and we actually came to the conclusion that, given the size of the country, given the number of citizens on the number of veterans, this separation is the same. What I think is good to know, I think it is good for the Croatian public to know about it. Because, for example, in... These funds could almost be said and unlimited. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have an agreement coming up. What I think is important is that as Minister of Croatian Defence and Vice-President of the Government I also received a call for a visit to Vermont where I dare say the world's leading centre for investigating post-traumatic stress disorder on which the world-renowned expert Mr. Freedman, who has been in Croatia on several occasions and from which we have also received recognitions for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder, but also for the fact that we have alerted that disease early enough and that we pay a lot of attention not only to defenders, therefore to veterans, but also to members of their families. So here we are, happy to prepare this meeting. I believe he can bring a lot of good together. And about when this return visit will take place you will, of course, be informed, as you are particularly concerned with post-traumatic stress disorders and as a representative but natural and as a scientist. So, we're on our way. And that's also what I want to say to end that we've made sure that, in agreement with the defenders and their associations, we've done the whole job, so we've met all the demands that the defenders have been looking for from post-traumatic stress disorder. So this government came out first with a number of defenders who unfortunately committed suicide. Until then it was taboo topic, that's not what we were talking about. And in the new 2005 law, we also moved deadlines for recognising this disease, of course, removed all those obstacles and prejudices that ruled against the defenders who had problems, from the abolition of the famous one, under the quotes of the "MP2 test" that the Croatian defenders were humiliated in the previous period when this disease was being determined and everything else that we did to the satisfaction of the defender, but of course I believe all of us throughout Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89613	Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89614	Dear Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your reply. It was an extremely successful and useful visit. Probably of long-term importance to the defense population. However, it should also be pointed out that NATO also has special attention for this issue. Many will be surprised, but it should only be concluded that two years ago the NATO Scientific Committee funded an important and significant project in the Republic of Croatia that referred to new methods in the diagnosis and treatment of PTSD. You, Madam Vice President, have opened this huge scientific gathering and I can say that today in Washington, some of our people, some of our scientists, are exhibiting the results of new achievements in the treatment of this severe disease that is not only important for the defence population, but also for all ordinary citizens suffering from various types of trauma. In this regard, I would also like to propose that, if possible, you coordinate with the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Health so that the Republic of Croatia would indeed become a centre of excellence for the treatment of and a serious disease for which the international community has a wider interest as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89615	Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89616	Well, it's a question for the Prime Minister. Mr. President, I'm not going to ask you anything about smuggling, any other topic. I think that provision of 0 alcohol spills in the driver causes long-term controversy in the Croatian public, including here in the Parliament. Unfortunately, here it is in the first five months of this year that it does not work. Unfortunately, in the first five months compared to last year, 15 times more people died on Croatian roads, 10% more severely wounded, 13% more injured. Indeed, there is a question of the purpose of this provision under the law. The question arises whether it was brought forward hastily, whether it was a consulting profession. The fact is that it suffers in a certain way the economy, agriculture, hospitality, wineries protest, tourism is in some way the impact and the image of Croatia as Mediterranean countries. My question is why you do not launch an initiative to abolish this provision because obviously some other things affect unfortunately the increase in victims and the safety of traffic. It is obvious that that former provision of 0.5% permeated was not the one that caused these severe consequences on our roads. So, the question is, will you take the initiative to get this provision done?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89617	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89618	Mr. Representative, you've asked a few questions before I come to this last one that sublimes everything, I'll answer those questions. When we passed this provision and this bill's amendment in that sense, it was after a series of months in which 15 to 20 people were killed every weekend, in which the public asked the government to do something. Do something to reduce that number of young people in general and others, but above all, young people who are in the discotheque by 4:5 a.m., and then one of them drives them home and we have these cases, unfortunately, a lot. And we proposed this proposal, adopted by the Croatian Parliament and immediately in the first year was reduced, and then in the second year the number of dead was reduced on the Croatian roads. In the light of that bill of law, I then said here in the Assembly's pay phone that if a single life saves that law, it makes sense. He saved many lives and certainly made sense as such. I have information that goes wrong, which says the opposite of what you just said. In the first 5 months of this year, according to data from the Statistical Institute of Alcohol Consumption in catering and tourist facilities, it increased by 10%. It's not cut. She's grown up. So there's no harm in tourism, neither in catering, nor in winemaking. The opposite is a fact. It's growing. Why is it growing? Probably because people realized that this law of 0 promila is not a law against drinking wine or drinking alcohol, but a law against not being able to drive after drinking. You said did we consult the profession? We did. And I'm going to tell you that doctors told us that surgeons can't, they're not allowed to go to the surgical table to run the surgery if they have 0.3. So it means that there is, so it's not exactly the calculations that say that and with 0.5 as the provision used to be, you have the same control behind the wheel as 0.0. So that's not true, because if it wasn't for surgeons, it wouldn't be 0.3 of the upper limit. And let me get this straight. I have no intention of launching an initiative to change this law because I believe that it has fulfilled its purpose and that it fulfils its purpose, and that is the first that the number of victims has been reduced. What happened now you're right, statistics are very ugly and there are a lot of car accidents going on with the outcome of death, but I'm sure that by changing this law, there would be even more, because people are still holding back and are aware and changing their habits. And what we are, I'm going to say in what is today a modern expression, in English says win-win situation. Let the more people drink, I don't mind, but don't drive after that. It means drive a yes, but not after you've been drinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89619	Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89620	Somehow this message of yours is drinking what is no longer to be sent from the Parliament, but fine. This second one is, don't drive when you drink too much. But you see to me, it's perfectly normal that a surgeon can't operate with 0.3% of the promila, but the commander of the plane can drive a plane with 0.5 promilas, the captain of the ship can drive a ship with 0.5 promilas, and you can't compare a surgeon and car driver. I refer to practice in Italy, France, etc., Greece, I do not know other Mediterranean countries that are our competitors. The fact is, they really are winemakers, farmers, etc. protested down the road. That's a fact. The fact is, it didn't affect these data to reduce accidents. I don't think there's really any reason not to admit it, is that the people of my miss me alone. After all, everything can be fixed, it's not that, but the size is that when you're wrong to say it, so that the Gibbonne River will forgive me if the triba tells me, if you forgive me, I will change my decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89621	Representative Lino Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89622	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government. Here I have one question for Minister Bozidar Kalmet, namely his Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. Will the government, Mr. Minister, as promised, subsidize the fuel to small boaters since in public, they often seek state incentive because they are not users of blue fuel as they are with fishermen?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89623	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89624	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Representative! Yeah. The fuel will be subsidized to small boaters since they, as you yourself said, have no right to blue diesel, so instead, they will subsidise the difference between the price of blue diesel and the price they are paying at the moment. The state budget for this year opened a new position on, at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, which envisions fuel subsidies to those small boaters. Talks were held with the Competition Protection Agency and the view was agreed that small ships should be paid off on the basis of criteria through the State aid programme. Over the past few months, we have made and updated the data on the number of these small shipmen and there are 405 ships or 336 shipmen. A program was developed to subsidize these small shipmen. It is agreed that, following the delivery of evidence of the actual fuel consumption, which will also be certified by the competent port captain, that the payment and subsidies of small shipmen should be made at that time. Since they work most in the summer, it is agreed that they will deliver it at the latest in October so that they can subsidise that fuel in this current financial year as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89625	Representative Lino Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89626	I think young, small boaters can be pleased. Maybe it wouldn't be bad if I mentioned something else, which I hear a lot from them, which is two things, that the future may be reduced by this bureaucratic procedure of getting support. And maybe this is the same thing, and then it would really be fully satisfied with all their demands, that they, like fishermen, are in a certain way using an eyewitness in the fuel transport. I think you will certainly consider this question and will do, of course, as you have done so far, everything the ministry can do under these conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89627	Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89628	Thank you, Mr. President. The question is for the Minister of Finance, Mr. Shucker. According to the latest data from the financial agency in April this year, 35 thousand accounts of individuals amounting to about 4 billion kuna were blocked, and 23 thousand 146 legal entities with over or about 12 or exactly 12.7 billion kuna. This is also according to FINA, the continuation of the negative trend of the last two years. In other words, for the third year in a row, liquidity has deteriorated, and the state is also significantly involved by paying its liabilities through irregular payments. That I am merely illustrating that health care only owes drugstores at this point 2 billion and 200 million kunas, which there is, are visible from the public media in the face of a huge problem. Financial indiscipline is one of the causes and low competitiveness of our economy but it affects the employees of these companies most because they are irregularly and for several months they do not receive salaries. So far, you've denied the existence of this problem, and you haven't even solved it. Will you continue to be blind to this problem and act like it's not there?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89629	Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89630	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, would Croatia have ended up standing by arrangement if what you said were true? Would Croatia get the compliments it received the other day from the World Bank when signing another loan to adapt that this is true what you said? Would Croatia have had economic growth in the first three months over 5.2% if what you said were true? Would Croatia have the lowest unemployment rate for the first 5 months if what you said were true? It's another thing. You forgot what you left in health care. First of all, you didn't show 900 million... And you had... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] the obligations that have come to payment. [[Specially enabled.]] That's what you left behind. The other thing, talking about indifference rather than saying why someone's blocked is not good. It's not indifference if someone's blocked. Sometimes someone doesn't want to pay someone for a number of reasons. So don't tell me you support it, if someone, you support those that the state has blocked because they haven't settled their tax obligations. Don't say that you support those blocked by the state is someone else, and they left the company and started doing business through another company, which the former justice minister gave them by amending the law. So these are all facts. Tell me how many of these blockeds are left and by the basis of your Law on Achieved and Unpaid Claims, with the fact that you have never submitted a report to this House, which, as well as who you bargained with on those outstanding and unpaid claims? So, Mrs. Zgrebec! Here, as I reiterated it again and again at a series of meetings with Croatian businessmen, I argue that there is no indifference in Croatia. I claim that all claims from the state budget that came to the Treasury were paid. Because you forget that the moment you lost power, you left 300 sub-accounts that he did whatever he wanted. Today Croatia has a treasure shop, today Croatia has three books that you could only dream of. This is a daily report where the Prime Minister, vice-presidents of the government, receive a continuous report on daily incomes, revenues in the current month and revenues at the level of the year and on the type of income and all that together. This is a monthly report that you stopped publishing. And why is that? To cover up the Croatian public exactly what you're accusing us of. However, the Croatian Parliament, therefore, also representatives of the Croatian Parliament and all those interested in finance in the Republic of Croatia, can receive such a financial report. Also, the booklet that we printed when we adopted the budget and the booklets that came to you now at the Budget Implementation Assembly clearly shows transparency and all together. There's something else I want to say. There's no concealment of the deficit. What's not paid in health care, you know that every year they... how much they increased compared to the previous year are included in the deficit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's not paid in health care is included in the deficit, and we're going to make a meeting with the head of pharmaceutical companies and drugstores these days, and we're going to solve that problem, be sure. But it's not true that at this point, the state owes 2 billion and 200 million. And when you talk about Croatia's positions according to the research of some houses, then what you're saying is exactly what you're saying. Without arguments, you accuse the state without anything and these are all indicators without exact indicators rather than based on perception, while unlike us many who are far worse than us show their situation in their country much better than it is. This claim in the country that indifference would not give Croatia a loan from the European Investment Bank for the construction of the Zagreb-Rijek highway under conditions as if it were a member of the European Union, would not at the latest Congress of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development... We were told that future loans would give us no state guarantee and would not for the first time be the Presidency, the Governing Board of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development that Croatia is the most serious candidate for the annual assembly in 2010. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you think all these financial institutions are stupid and blind and give money to Croatia and they are not sure that they will charge it? Unfortunately, Mrs. Zgrebec, you can't make peace with the fact that there's finally a line in this country to know who's drinking and who's paying and you're just... [[The speaker is not understood because of the noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89631	Representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89632	If it were really this great, Minister Schucker wouldn't be talking this long and taking twice as long as it belongs to him. However, these are the facts, these are the published data from our state institutions. We can use other data. For example, the World Bank says the deficit this year will be 4.6%, that the gross product growing 4.5% is insufficient for Croatia at this time. You say someone won't pay. So why didn't you make sure through the laws that it was mandatory to pay, that beyond that, when it wasn't paid in time to account for interest that couldn't be questionable. Don't laugh. The problem is people who work in the economy who can't collect their claims. They have to take credits to pay taxes to the state and at the same time the state is doing nothing to make sure they can collect their claims. So we still tolerate that the believers are in a worse position than the debtors.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89633	Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89634	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Minister Calmeta. Mr. Minister, you're familiar with the situation at HAC, you know that this year, 70 people were employed in HAC without a competition against their decision on where they said there was no employment. You know there are retired officers there, the Alkarian dukes, parliamentary deputies and all of them from HDZ. According to the letter received by the prime minister signed by the dispensary, who intervened for it is also indicated. It's not just you. You know that many of the shares are actually given directly without competitions from individual HDZs and again you are not the only ones who intervened for it. From everything, I do not want to list further, that you are party tasks, means the tasks of the HDZ, and I believe that the tasks of the prime minister have been irrevocably carried out. Now at this point as far as I can tell, the public is washing their hands from you. So I ask you, Mr. Minister, do you feel betrayed and sold by both HDZ and the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89635	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89636	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Representative Kapraljevic. Of course I don't feel betrayed or betrayed. As for the HAC and Croatian highways, I will only remind myself that Croatian highways were founded in 2001 and all the internal acts that were then adopted and that was during the former government and the way they were then admitted to the HAC had not changed because they had not changed their internal acts. In fact, much more defenders have been accepted since 2003 than it was in the period 2001 to 2003. Furthermore, we have a report on the inspections carried out in the Croatian Roads by the State Inspectorate, which writes here among other things that the reception was in line, so there was no basis for taking legal measures against employers, that the employment needs were published on advertising boards at the centre of employers, that the union had been declared, the union representative confirmed this and said that it was in accordance with internal acts, that the representatives of the working council confirmed it, etc. Therefore, I think what I can answer to this question is that it is certainly not accepted by the party key. I think it was during the past government, I know it from a whole series of remarks that I had at the time as Mayor of Zadar when that stock was opening up there. And I'm saying, everything's been adopted and everything is received in accordance with the internal acts which are in accordance with the HAC Labour Act, the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and the Law on Gender Equality. And which is also important and I said nothing has changed before since 2001 until today.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89637	Representative Antun Kavrljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89638	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not happy with the answer. That's not true. The rule has changed. Employment was probably by law but unfair. And as far as my question is concerned, you haven't answered me, in fact you said in one sentence regardless of which I see all the behavior and the prime minister and the parties they wrote you off, they caught a big fish that would show Europe and Croatia before these elections. If they were to defend you, they'd defend you like a wolf, like Mrs. Kosor, like Kirina and the others. They're not defending you. You've been written off.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89639	Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. ... He's gone, so he won't be able to ask a representative question. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now 20 MPs and advocates have absorbed their rights. We've got another 20. We'll take a break and continue at 12 o'clock. It is up to the honourable representative of Miroslav Korenik. We're continuing with the current morning. The question arises from the respected representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89641	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Vukelic, in accordance with my rules of procedure. The International Monetary Fund study on opportunities and restrictions on economic growth warns of an unfavourable business environment with us in Croatia, pointing to issues related to ownership rights, administrative and bureaucratic barriers and barriers to corruption. The study forecasts that, at the rate of growth that will be achieved in Croatia according to their meaning, thinks from 4 to 4 and a half percent warns and points to an inadequate height of such growth. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce also warns that at this pace, the growth of the gross social product will not reach the European Union's development for 25 years. My question is whether you have started Croatia with such economic indicators as you have pre-electionally promised how you are still claiming and whether Croatia is satisfying to achieve this growth and development of the European Union in 25 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89642	Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89643	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I must say that those indicators of a respected parliamentary representative we have when it comes to the Croatian economy are indicators that speak exactly the opposite of what you want to say. So they show that we are really on the best track in the framework of our strategic development framework, which the government has adopted by 2013, and these are the objectives of achieving and reaching the European Union standards that we will then be members of. I also want to mention and say here that what others see may be the most important thing about us and the business environment that is worth here. So I will also remind myself of the recent survey by the German-Croatian Industrial Chamber of Commerce which made the survey, and it is known that over 300 business people, companies, companies from Germany, works, trades with Croatia, rated an extremely good business environment in Croatia. And they expect more significant investment and growth of their jobs here in Croatia. I also think it's worth mentioning and saying that last year we achieved a gross domestic product 4.8%, that at the beginning of this year this growth is over 5%. All of this and the measures that the Croatian government is taking are about to have good trends in the economy, to have a stable macroeconomic environment, to have an increasingly high quality and better business environment, to have the programmes that this government is implementing, and that is also to remove all administrative barriers and obstacles, this is the HItro project.HR, which will soon provide an additional, positive business environment in Croatia, is primarily about simplifying the legislation concerning the economy, that is, all measures, the fight against the "grey economy", the fight against corruption, that these are measures that will further improve and I would say make a more positive business environment in Croatia, more attractive for investors, investors who come in Croatia, but also that it will give further... for the growth and development of the economy in Croatia and Croatian companies and companies that have achieved extremely good results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Last year's results never achieved a better economy than they achieved last year. And it should also be said that these trends are not only continued but improved at the beginning of this year. Therefore, all the projects that this Croatian government has adopted, all the projects it will bring this year and I am deeply convinced and under the leadership of HDZ and for the next 4 years will surely achieve what is contained in the framework and envisaged, which is therefore to create a stable economic business environment in Croatia and achieve that standard of economic growth and development that is foreseen by the strategic framework of Croatia's development by 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89644	Representative Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89645	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's an election year, so Mr. Minister, I understand yours in my opinion unrealistic optimism. Because at the same time, when you speak like this, you forget that we have an increase in imports into the Republic of Croatia. No matter what you want to admit it we have an increase in indifference, a warning about corruption and everything else. And it seems to me that you have not answered me whether you are satisfied that at this rate and these ambitious growth rates that you are talking about Croatia will reach these by 4.8% of GDP growth in 23 years the development of the European Union. It seems to me that no one in Croatia, and I hope both you and the Government can satisfy it. Because Croatian citizens deserve something more. We also expect more ambitious growth rates and measures to improve this. It seems to me like this, it's an election year, so let's brag more about ourselves than it's real. Because I see that you neither respect the International Monetary Fund nor the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89646	Agent Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89647	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Mr. Prime Minister, you and your government are in favour of freedom of the market economy, the competition, and, of course, you do not support the agreed economy, the planning economy, whatever they call it. Unfortunately, although it has been a long time since Croatia has definitely sailed into the waters of free games, there are still very significant remains and apparently hard forts that have settled in those positions of the Croatian economy which are by nature and by the character of monopolists. And, of course, that's where they make a profit that doesn't belong to them. In our opinion, INA is one of those positions in the Croatian economy that is unworthy of a certain profit that should not belong to it. What it's about. The president of our party yesterday at the Economic Forum has just said that an oil and gas rental, which is 2.6% in Croatia as you know it is compared to other neighbouring countries, let's say Hungary where it is 12% inaccessible low and that income belonging to local self-government units, so the country's citizens are measured somewhere around 100 million kuna was last year. Of course, such small amounts are not in line with those sizes available to such a monopoliest, which the company has given to, and has 785 wells, there are 136 oil fields. But what's very interesting about gas is then from the total gas spent in Croatia, the president is 60% from domestic sources. Do you also agree that this initiative that we are thinking to support and start to increase these rents, because it is inadmissiblely low and unrelated to who is in the ownership structure, it is always equally unfair, unfair and should be raised and protected for the protection of those who need to be protected because it is an even development of local self-government, but also for the establishment of an ecological fund, working and establishing whether you agree that rent should be raised and put on a level to meet all needs, and not just those concerning INA and its owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89648	The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89649	Mr. Representative, I will directly answer that I support the initiative and the thinking that you've put forward, but we cannot resolve it this partially. What we are proposing is one systematic solution under the Law on concessions, because it is about the concessions that INA received, not about ownership. Therefore, we will try to find this solution within the concession law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89650	Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89651	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We had the intention of the Rent Act to run as our initiative. Of course, it would be touching some other positions, not just oil and gas, because we hold that by increasing these 100 million present to 550 as much as it is in the projection, let's say that it rises to 11 and a half percent to make a significant contribution to the balance of the budget of the local self-government units, meaning one budget that citizens could sense in some way, and from that it could clearly recruit a significant fund that would primarily serve as an ecological component of what we took from the country. So I think in this sense we can agree that this initiative has sound foundations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89652	Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89653	Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister and members, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Hanse Kirin. Since 2001, somewhere around 3,000 and 500 police officers, mostly Croatian defenders, have been fired in the previous government's mandate, a lack of police officers has been felt in certain police administrations. My question is how and when do you plan to resolve this personnel deficit in individual police administrations? And about that, at the same time that I am talking about the mandate of the previous government, there is no respect for the collective contract and no overtime paid. Later on, several thousand charges for unpaid overtime were charged. My question is how has this non-compliance with the collective contract affected the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, or the budget of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89654	Minister Ivica Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89655	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary Representative. All right, here's the deal. I'll start with this long answer. In 2001, because of non-compliance with the collective agreement, there were 4 000 560 executions, which in financial terms means that in 2003 the MIP account was downloaded, meaning the Ministry of Finance's account was taken off 150 million kuna, then another 73.3 million kuna was removed in 2004 and 2005, and it was mentioned, in fact, that the implementations relate to the net amounts for which it was necessary to provide 310 million kuna for the payment of the laws of the corresponding taxes, cuts and contributions. For the implementation of 2005 and 2006, the cases are still completed, and according to current knowledge, 130 million kuna is still to be paid, totalling 700 million kuna of financial resources, which must be provided by the ministry, i.e. the state budget, for non-compliance with the collective contract. Why was it so and why did it happen I think the best way to answer... And why the coalition government didn't respect it then, I don't know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I just want to point out that this government has come across existing debts and that we've served these debts neatly and these months will be paid all the charges, so all those court rulings that we've received and the settlements we've agreed on will be paid off to police officers. In this issue of the dismissal of police officers, I must also say that I do not understand the policy that was in favour of joining the European Union, because it was then full of newspapers, and it was known that Croatia's entry into the European Union is also carrying certain obligations, especially because today it is the Croatian police who are guarding Croatian borders and it is well known that all the EU member states have had to allocate the most financial resources and employ an additional number of people on the issue of border security. At the time of 2001, 3 thousand 500 people were fired and it happened that today we have a lack of police personnel throughout the police administrations in the Republic of Croatia. We are also aware of the problem that some of the people who entered the Croatian police and entered as volunteers in participating in the Homeland War suffer from PTSD the problem is even greater. Therefore, the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the first competition that was held last year, now these days are completing courses of that qualification at the Police Academy, 305 police officers plus 110 criminals higher and higher, and now the competition that is here before is under way and the reception means a thousand and 200 new officers of medium-level professional training plus 250 criminals more and more and more high professional equipment plus 100 persons of high professional preparation of various profiles. By entering new young people, we want to step up precisely the work on these segments that most burden Croatian society, which is the fight against organised crime, corruption, the fight against other and all forms of crime. We also want to strengthen the activities of these new existing officials on the Croatian roads to prevent these unloved statistical events, which is that we have an increase in the deaths in traffic. I would also like to stress that inappropriate statements that the police are concealing, not revealing, would like to deny only here, with yesterday's one event, the police solved the '93 murder. A year and another 2000 murder. I would like to say that every day, the Croatian police mean the staffing capacity that we carry out with that technical equipment wants to carry out tasks the way the police do in the most developed countries, which means quickly, effectively spending as little time on investigations and being primarily preventive to reduce the number of criminal acts. The work of the Croatian police can only be said of one thing at the end. Looking at all the crimes...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89656	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89657	We can say that there has been a reduction in criminal offences in this area from 1 to 5 months compared to, in this period compared to the 2006 period by 2.27%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89658	Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89659	I thank Mr. Secretary for his reply. I am satisfied with the answer, at least not with the condition or the causes that I have asked this question. All I have left is to appeal to you for those shortcomings as I said from the period of the previous government to be removed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89660	Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89661	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the president of the Croatian government and all members of the government. And I'm asking the Minister of Interior, Mr. Hanse Kirin. In fact, Mr. Minister, among police officers, especially among those living in one area who work in the area of another police administration, there is a number of police officers who have no settled housing issue. Since we all know that cops don't have much pay and that they can't solve this significant issue themselves, therefore, the issue of housing, I ask you to answer what the ministry is actually doing, whether there are any measures to really help these people, because I think they really deserve help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89662	Minister Ivica Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89663	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague! First of all, for the Croatian public, we want to say that these are really problems that have been dragging around for many years. And we're all aware that investment in the basic infrastructure as far as police officers themselves are concerned, was insignificant or almost nothing. We've been running a series of activities these days. So, apart from solving the housing problem that I'm going to tell you about, we're going to say that in the meantime, we're going to start building new police offices, we're going to build new police stations, and we're going to do the whole infrastructure in the best possible way, so that, apart from the employees in those rooms, we'll have the satisfaction and the citizens who come there to do their services. As far as housing problems are concerned, it is very visible especially in the area of our southern counties, primarily in the area of the Dubrovnik-Neretva Police Administration where living conditions are far higher, where the price of property is far higher than in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. And knowing this problem, the Ministry of the Interior together in cooperation somewhere with the unions and somewhere on our own, we've asked the cities to grant us free plots on which it could mean building housing. And we will go into building housing to allow our officers to stay and have the same conditions as police officers in other parts of the country. What's very important is that right now we see this latest competition for the reception of police officers, at least people are coming to us for a competition in the Police Department from the region like Dubrovnik-Neretvanska Police Department, where it is, and for the areas of the administration, the Istrian Police Administration for reasons why the local population doesn't want to go to the police because of their wages because working in tourism is far more profitable. So, people who come to these administrations come from parts of Slavonia and the central part of Croatia, and these people usually don't have accommodation and with that salary they have and still paying for accommodation, they don't have much to live for. This is why we want to solve the social i.e. The housing policy of the Ministry of the Interior. So there are two models. One is the model that unions themselves, as they are already in the Istria area, where 9 apartments were built, themselves set off, where they will have the assistance of the Interior Ministry in construction. And the second is that through the state, through the encouraging housing... a model of a public private partnership, that the Ministry of the Interior builds exactly housing units in those areas where we have the greatest shortage of police officers i.e. where the minimum coverage of police administrations is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is why, now here for the Croatian public, it is in our interest to resolve, the first thing that we are going to do is solve housing problems in the area of Istria, Dubrovnik and the City of Zagreb, because that is how we want to enable the existence of our police officers. Only one officer with a quality solution will be able to do his job in a good way. And we think, that and now, with the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and with what we only get in the budget, we have the financial means to start realising already this year. The only thing we have left is to speed up the paperwork, because we can't start any constructions until we've solved the location and construction permits. Anyway, police officers in the next two, three years will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89664	Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89665	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'll be pleased when your praises of valuable projects begin to be realized. And I'm certainly police officers. And I'm sure this will contribute to the dignity of the police department itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89666	Representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89667	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen! I ask Mr. Bozidar Kalmeti, Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. Croatian road carriers are a significant part of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. According to the Croatian Chamber of crafts, the number of craftsmen carrying out the transport activity is about 13 thousand, and in Požega-Slavon County it is 10% of all craftsmen. In order to improve the position of Croatian road transporters on Croatian occasions, but also by encouraging competition in the context of the single European market and by the issue of annual and individual licences for international freight transport, what does the Croatian government intend to do to protect Croatian road carriers and enable them to enter the European market evenly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89668	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89669	Thank you. I, before answering something concrete about this issue, must say that Croatia has almost fully aligned its legislation with the acquis of the European Union when it comes to activity in accessing the road transport market. Secondly, in order to increase the competitiveness of Croatian road transporters and their position at all, the government has formed one team that, together with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Employers' Association, the Trade and Liaison Union, and others, is working on one plan to improve the competitiveness of Croatian carriers before Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. The way I call it an action team is doing very well, there are a whole series of proposals that some of them are already in office to say so, and some of them are going to be. I'll only count two here. As of 1 June, therefore, 50% compensation for all types of annual licences for international freight transport, etc., has been reduced. ... Permissions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, their price has been reduced by 50% since 1 June. And another measure that the government has not yet discussed, which was therefore not at the government but is the proposal to make a monthly amount of road use for the third and fourth categories of vehicles. Therefore, for the third and fourth categories of vehicles quantified on highways per mile. It was also a proposal for road transporters. We're completing that document now, and we're about to refer it to the government. In addition, there are a whole range of other conclusions and everything you said to increase the competitiveness of Croatian road carriers.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89670	Representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89671	Thank you very much. I ask the Croatian government to continue to monitor issues related to Croatian road transporters, especially when it comes to international traffic which is a significant part of this economic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89672	Representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89673	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I refer the question to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr Branko Vukelic. Dear Mr. Minister, there has been a significant increase in the number of new entrepreneurs over the past three years. The government created a positive atmosphere by setting up the Quick-HR agency, by introducing an E-catastre, by setting up and digitising land books, and all of this has affected the shortening and duration of the process of starting a business that is now going on for about 6 days. However, some entrepreneurs who have good ideas and programmes and who would open up the company often need initial loans to start business. So, Mr. Minister, is the ministry planning to make it easier for beginners to get loans to smaller amounts and guarantees for these loans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89674	Minister Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89675	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarians, it is true that in these three and a half years, the government has made a truly positive environment and a stimulating environment for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, not only a large number of new companies, new crafts, a large number of newly opened jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises, this is about 60 thousand, resulting among other things because of a good business lending project, it is a project that we have implemented practically with all business banks in Croatia and with all the county and city of Zagreb. This lending programme was with a final interest for entrepreneurs from 2 to 4%, the potential created in banks was either over 5 billion kuna. Nearly 4 billion kunas of these loans are divided into Croatia. I would especially like to mention here that the recordr of Split-Dalmatia County is almost a billion to today's credit-approved entrepreneurs. It is therefore no wonder that, for example, this index when we measure the intensity of entrepreneurship in Dalmatia is practically now higher than it is in Zagreb, so nine new entrepreneurs on a hundred working-age residents. In this analysis, we also came to the realization that a relatively large number of requests for small amounts between 15% and 20% of loan applications were for loans of up to 200,000 kuna. We also noticed that this procedure for such a small amount is often difficult, debt, banks have often sought large-scale guarantees and have in some way been difficult to approve such loans because these are loans as you always said and most often new entrepreneurs, or small entrepreneurs with some small business venture. That is why I announced at the national consultation in Sibenik a new micro-credit programme, last week we signed an agreement with twenty banks and with seventeen counties and the city of Zagreb on the expansion of this credit programme with a micro-credit project. These micro loans will amount to up to two hundred thousand kunas to five years with a maximum interest of 5%. And it is also important to say that these micro loans will be followed by local guarantee funds because for the entrepreneur it is often a problem how to guarantee this relatively small amount of the loan of its guarantee does not have or is the problem of laying down some kind of loan house of 100 thousand kuna for example. As a result, these local guarantee funds along with HAMAG will actually stand behind these beginners of entrepreneurs and follow him in his entrepreneurial venture. What is also important to say such micro loans in this model that we signed last week are going into joint realisation with the county and with the bank's wishes is and the goal is to achieve that in Croatia it is easier and faster to reach the entrepreneur's credit, for example for 100,000 kuna than to the car loan. That's the goal, that's what banks have confirmed is that it's a possible goal and I'm particularly happy about it. So, twenty banks follow this project, and I believe that already this year, the great interest it has in entrepreneurs will be so pleased that they can quickly, efficiently and easily reach such a small, relatively small loan but that for the beginner's entrepreneur it can mean employment, employment of one or two men and we'll solve it even better, I'd say, even better, all of those entrepreneurial ventures of new entrepreneurs who are just entering this world of entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89676	Representative Nevenka Majdenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89677	I thank the ministers. This is a commendable effort by your ministry and government to further improve the development of the small economy by increasing the availability of funding for entrepreneurial and innovative projects. I'm glad for the new entrepreneurs, I'm sure they'll welcome it with their heart and joy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89678	Representative Kajo Bucan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89679	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to ask the Minister of Health and Social Care Professor Neven Ljubic. Today, about twenty - five different organs and tissues can be transplanted. In Europe, there are several models of transplant organisations and one of the most famous is the Eurotransplant International Foundation, an international organisation that includes six countries in Europe, Austria, Germany, Slovenia, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Belgium. Since 25 May Croatia is a full member of the Eurotransplant and an equal participant of the Eurotransplant Community and the only country, I stress the only country outside the European Union that is a member of the Eurotransplant. The question is: what for Croatia, our health system, and especially for our patients means recently achieved full membership in Eurotransplant?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89680	Minister Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89681	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to repeat these words to Mr. MPs because they really need to be repeated. Croatia is the only country in Eurotransplant that is not yet a member of the European Union. And I think it's been very, very, very much said to itself. But, of course, we didn't come by chance to join Eurotransplant. We've come a very large piece of work, especially for the last three years. I'm actually just going to single out one piece of information that I think is absolutely illustrative, which is that the number of transplants in three years of the term of office of this government is practically twice as much as it was in ten years before that. This is, in fact, the data that were recognized by both Eurotransplant leaders and in our mutual conversations, there was also what culmination was. This means that Croatia has become a full member of the Eurotransplant. What does membership bring? In the first place, he brings for our citizens, for our patients, for our patients. Some of them have been waiting 15 years on the kidney waiting list. Why are they waiting on that list? Because they couldn't find the matching organ. Right now, our citizens are entering a common common list. A few of them, four of them, are already on the exchange, and they've got a new organ. And I think that's actually what it's called the pleasure of all of us because basically we see what this Eurotransplant really means. On the other hand, it was also a great support for the profession. In what way? For the first time in Croatia, we have an internationally accredited one, one, one institution. In this case, it is a typing centre recognised by Eurotransplant, meaning of all relevant international institutions. I expect, of course, that our future Centre for Transplantation, which is being built, is already teamed up as far as people are concerned, but when we're done, the construction work will also be recognised and certified by the International Community. I'd like to say one more thing here without, of course, wanting to accuse anyone. Negotiations with Eurotransplant were also in 2003. Unfortunately for not understanding whether then politics, are individuals? I don't want to get into that. There wasn't really enough hearing. He's got it today. Eurotransplant is in Croatia and Croatia is in Eurotransplant. And just one more thing that we're not gonna stop at this. So three representatives from Croatia, three leading of our experts go to Munich developing so-called "Munchen". "tweezing" program. It's a program of mutual exchange because we want to do a lung transplant. This will be an additional step of the profession in Croatia and health care in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89682	Representative Kajo Butjan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89683	I thank Mr. Secretary. Satisfaction with the response also supports the positive statistical indicators of both the number of transplants and the number of transplants. So this year alone, 58 kidney transplants, 5 heart transplants, 25 liver transplants, 7 multi-organ transplants were performed. I believe that the close opening of the first national eye bank in Zagreb's KBC for which all the preconditions have been created will contribute even more intensive cooperation through Eurotransplant and thus a better vision of the undersighted persons in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89684	She's a representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89685	Thank you very much. My question is intended for the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, but since it is not necessary to ask the Secretary of State, Mr Nevi Šetić. We brought a new Sport Act to the Croatian Assembly a year ago. During the process of adoption, Minister Primorac presented him as a revolutionary step in improving the general state of sports in Croatia. Especially in solving riots in professional sports and charging the debts of professional clubs by announcing and sending USKOK to clubs with non-transparent and dubious business. In accordance with the law, the National Sports Council was to be established, for the first time the National Sport Programme, the Sports Building Regulation, the implementing rules on public procurement and the search for non-professional clubs, established information system in sport. The rules on the conditions, type and manner of performance and the records and documentation of the medical examinations of athletes should also be adopted. I don't know if a professional club committee has been appointed until today, but I know that the process of reshaping is practically in place, and that's the night before last in the "Open" show confirmed by Igor Štimac saying that the privatisation of clubs is not yet going. All the deadlines for the adoption and implementation of those acts have passed, and I see no indication of when something will change in this regard? My question is: why are the provisions of the Sport Act relating to the deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts and the appointment of professional bodies and laws not respected? Will you and when will you adopt or propose to the Assembly for the adoption of those acts and professional bodies necessary for the full implementation and life-longing of the Sport Act? Or was the whole law-making procedure a farce in the function of eradicating the debts of professional clubs? Since the end of the term of office of this government is near and this is being convened by the Parliament, and no legal obligations have been made as to what will you do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89686	State Secretary Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89687	Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, respected MPs. Indeed, a year ago, the Sport Act was passed and you asked a very complex question and thank you for that. But here I want to make it clear that the Ministry did do a lot of things. Some jobs certainly don't wait. Thus, the Croatian School Sports Federation was founded which consists of county school sports alliances and the Sports Federation, the School Union of the City of Zagreb to further direct sport among children and young people. I would also like to say that the Ministry is under the law, that a Croatian anti-doping agency is established in sport, which is an extremely important moment because of the international role and importance of the task now being carried out in Croatia. And the process of ratification of the UNESCO Convention against Doping in Sports applies. As you pointed out, the Committee for Professional Sports Clubs was founded. And it works. But it's a very demanding procedure. And already this was the Commission's agreement to elect 15 auditors to be able to carry out clearly what the claims are at football clubs, 15 football clubs. What are these claims? Who are they referring to? In order to be able to continue redesigning sports shareholders' companies, clubs into sports shareholders' societies. He could talk a lot about it, but it's one procedure that should respect those steps. I also want to say that the Ministry is headed to the Sports Agency for professional sports clubs. And in the offices of the state administration in the county register of sports activities. And that is the contribution of the law that we have passed here in the Croatian Parliament. I also want to say that for the first time a regulation has been passed that can reward all those athletes, coaches and professionals for those sports that are not Olympic or Paralympic. So, this is about boxing, water polo, etc. You know that Croatian athletes achieve exceptional results, and now they are rewarded as well as these others. And I want to say, that's what you mentioned, and that's exactly what's going on in the appointment of members of the National Sports Council, which is extremely important, a roof expert body that will, as a model for other European countries, give guidance and bring priorities to the projects on sport, which is extremely demanding. All this is saying that I can also say that the information system in sport has just been set up, which will provide all the necessary information and information. But from what I've said, you can see how complex this is, how neglected the social issue was, and how the ministry reacted to various parts of the problem and applied the provisions of the Sport Act. And I believe we're still working on it. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89688	She's a representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89689	I can't be satisfied with the answer, Mr. Secretary of State, since you haven't answered my question. I didn't ask a question about the acts that were passed. I asked a question about acts that were not adopted and asked for reasons why they were not, and according to the law they should have been passed. That's what this is about. And I'm asking you a written answer. And I have one more thing to mention here. These days, sports audiences are in the spotlight of football transfer announcements. It's about millions in euro. For example, one, Hajduk is worth more than 2m euros, and they know that the account has been blocked for more than 10 years. Where did they get the money... [[The speech room has been shut down, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89690	Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89691	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen. In history, totalitarian regimes have proved to rule the people over again and again, causing them fear and uncertainty. So Communism intimidated the people with an external enemy, and Croats in the world, i.e. Croatian emigration, which he himself produced due to poor economic leadership, was seen as a constant threat to order and revolution due to political repression. Today some again threaten Croatian citizens in the world, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who have Croatian citizenship and say if they come to power they will deny participation in the elections in Croatia, this human and democratic right and civilization. Mr. Prime Minister, what is your personal position on this issue and what is the position of the Government that you are in charge of, particularly in light of the recent Constitutional Court decision of 20 April in connection with the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89692	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89693	Mr. Representative, first of all, I would like to say that the position of both my personal and government and the party I am headed by is that all Croatian citizens must be equal before the Constitution. This means that no matter where they live and no matter where they are or whether they are diaspora or whether they are a constituent people, that the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina were the third category, which is people who are only temporarily abroad because of their job that they are equal before the Croatian Constitution and have equal rights and obligations. And that means that we cannot introduce criteria that are something outside the constitutional framework, and that is who pays the tax in Croatia that will vote. Would that mean that then those who are unemployed and who are currently at the Employment Service do not pay taxes because they do not work in Croatia, perhaps pay others. What criteria are we going to introduce? There's only one criterion. And it is whether it has or does not have Croatian citizenship. Once again I will say very clearly here, the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not diaspora, there is a constitutional, equal sovereign people. It is also an obligation for Croatia to worry within its constitutional but also in the context of the fact that Croatia is a co-signator of the Dayton Agreement. And I would state that third reason, which is a moral obligation to provide all through international institutions with all protection through direct dialogue with Sarajevo and through the fact that we are helping political organisations of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we'll keep doing it. And we will not allow anyone to announce that they will abolish the right to vote in the referendums or in the elections of any diaspora, or the constitutive people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croatian people, or citizens who are currently at work and abroad. Because they choose the 11th constituency. And it is an artificial dilemma that has been tried to impose on us these days, because no one from the HDZ nor from the government has ever claimed that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are diaspora. No one's ever claimed that. The Croats are the people there. Both Bosnia and Herzegovina is the homeland of the Croatian people. Something else is the problem here. It is obvious that some are wrong to vote in the 11th electoral unit, which includes both the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and our diaspora around the world and citizens who are on temporary work abroad, which most of them vote for the Croatian Democratic Community. However, this cannot be a criterion for abolishing the right to vote. Where would that lead us if we were to remove some electoral units tomorrow because some HDZ party or some other party has a majority in that constituency? Therefore, it cannot be a criterion. I'm sorry to hear that. We will strive that in these elections the majority of citizens who have the right to vote in the 11th election only to vote our candidates. We call on others to engage in this political struggle, not to threaten the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina to lift their right to vote. And that they're not threatening for another reason. When Croatia was threatened, and threatened by major Serbian aggression before Bosnia and Herzegovina, then at the invitation of the Croatian state leadership to defend Croatia among the first front lines of the front line were just Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we can't forget that. We cannot forget our debt to the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is also the one from the Homeland War. But even if it wasn't, I would have had the same opinion because I believe that a Croatian citizen who has Croatian citizenship lives like I said in New Zealand, in the Fireland, I deliberately took large geographical ranges or lived in Croatia or lived in Austria. No matter where this Croatian citizen lives, he has the right to participate in the elections, and he has the right to participate in all the referendums. And in this regard, I reject the SDP and SDP president's proposal to abolish the right to vote for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We'd consider that, first of all, he wouldn't be in a position to do it, and secondly it would be a great injustice. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89694	Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89695	Thank you, Mr. President. And I have to be honest. Of course I expected an answer like this. However, this response is very important not only because of Croats living in the world, it is also important for Croatians living in Croatia, Croatian citizens, to finally stop scaring them with Croats from the world. I am here on behalf of the four of us MPs sitting on behalf of all the Croats from the world I represent and I call on them to stop. It is a simple hoax that four of us 152 representatives, which makes us only 2.6%, can be a threat to the Croatian people in Croatia. In fact, we are one wealth like every Croat's wealth in anywhere in the world and should be used as a chance. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89696	Representative Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89697	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking Minister Vukelic. Mr. Minister, according to the Croatian Statistics Institute in the first quarter of 2007, exports amounted to $3.587 billion, and imports of $7.733 billion, respectively, of $4.146 billion, respectively. If it continues at such a pace and this year we will reach a record amount of the external trade deficit, while foreign debt has increased to about 30 billion euros with a growth trend. It hasn't been 30 days since you showed your so-called. export strategy, and exports in the first four months of this year are lower than exports in the first four months of last year, while imports are growing unconstitutionally. Explain where your so-called mistake is. An export strategy?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89698	Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89699	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm glad for this question you asked, I'd rather you asked him while your government was at the head of Croatia. There is no mistake in the Croatian export offensive, it is a mistake that it was launched by the arrival of this government, which was not launched by the government before because it was then an import offensive if we remember the openness and strengthening of imports at the time of the government headed by the SDP. What is important to say, so the arrival of this government at the head of the Croatian state when the export coverage of imports was 43%, the coverage of imports with our exports was raised to 48 to 49%. This cannot satisfy us and therefore the government has supported and brought forward a project of the Croatian export offensive, which is a series of very concrete operational measures that should be done to further strengthen Croatian companies, their competitiveness and to strengthen our exports. This is a strategic goal, which, to remind you, was not brought by the government itself as a minister, nor by the Ministry of Economy, but by anyone who lives in the real sector, who works and operates with the world in Croatia's export offensive. Therefore, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, and the Association of Employers, and the Association of Exporters and all ministries have been sitting and working on such a strategy for example, and this should be said by an Austrian export offensive which has proved to be very successful in order to make a series of measures to strengthen the Croatian economy, how to strengthen competitiveness, how to encourage as many companies as possible to turn to exports in order to get to the greatest and more quality coverage of imports with our exports of goods and services. I'll also remind you that at a big conference, a meeting of businessmen, about a thousand of them were just exporters that it was clear then and loudly this is a process that we can't do in one year. So what was found at the end of 2003 cannot be corrected in a year, two, three. It is a process that will last for years, but it is very important how and how the economic policy of the strategy is directed, and the strategy of this government is very clear when it comes to exports, when it comes to production, when it comes to encouraging investments that are with the transfer of new technologies and which are export-oriented here in this House, the new Investment Encouraging Act is exactly the same and adopted that applies exclusively to production. So, we want to strengthen Croatia's production, its competitiveness through all these measures implemented by the government is precisely the goal of strengthening this competitiveness, strengthening competitiveness so that our companies are as present in markets around the world as possible. It should also be said that through a series of measures to restructure the Croatian economy, to restructure those companies, companies that deal with difficulties are actually a prerequisite and to create a basis for these companies to be stable and strong with strategic partners, investors, investors to be able not only to operate on the Croatian market, but also to do business around the world. Therefore, the growth and trend of exports that we have in recent years, and there is also one more thing to mention and say here, so we also have very large differences in individual quarters of the year when it comes to exports and I will remind us all, the biggest export product of Croatia is a ship. Therefore, that shipping of ships often depends on this mathematics that you mention, but the basic mathematics is this, this government has raised 43% of the coverage of imports and exports to 49%, this government has brought an export offensive which is a strategy for the next 5 years, which should be innate by the result that we all want, which is including tourism that we have covered imports with 100 percent of the amount which is not an easy way to go, which is not the easy way to first of all, I would say damaged production, after one drop in industrial production that we have had over the past 10 years. It is a process that will last for years, but around which I think we have a consensus in Croatia of all political parties and all of us to create common conditions for Croatian companies, companies to be as strong and able to operate on both the Croatian and the world market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89700	Representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89701	Thank you very much. I'm dissatisfied with your conflicting answers. Obviously, the data, the real data of the Croatian Bureau of Statistics, completely deny you, but in fact this is not a question of deficits in trade in goods in the last 4 months, but all 4 years of your government. You'll remember, Mr. Minister, you'll actually be remembered as the minister who made a record $10 billion exchange deficit and the one that affected the growth of the debt. And actually only realistically, the only real increase in exports is the export of Croatian money to Austria. That's the only thing I can give you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89702	Representative Mario Zubović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89703	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister. I will ask Mrs. Marina Matulovic-Dropulic. It is known that the government, by coming to this government at the head of the state, has made a great effort to protect the environment and in spatial order. It is known that during the former government, only 50 spatial plans were adopted, that during Mrs Dropulic it was almost over, that nearly three hundred spatial plans were brought in municipalities throughout Croatia. However, our citizens are baffled by public statements claiming that construction areas are expanding in Croatia and in large quantities. At the beginning of the term of office, the government adopted amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Planning and the Regulation on the Protection of the Protected Coastal Area, followed by a reduction in construction areas. So are the tourist zones. How, then, is it possible to talk today about increasing both construction and tourist areas? The last such case was and there was a speech about Jelsa on the island of Hvar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89704	Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89705	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Representative. Obviously anything is possible. I'm sure people who go public are not familiar with the state of spatial planning, and they're not particularly familiar with the existing plans and the new plans that have been put forward or the plans that need to be made. The truth is this one. As you said, Mr. Representative, this government has done a lot in this business. We had 113 plans brought in. Today we have 529. We have very little left. We all have 15 municipalities in which, which are small municipalities that usually make spatial plans with reduced content, because we have provided them with the means that they can bring their own plans. Until the end, all spatial plans will be passed. Croatia has a large building area, there are over 460 thousand hectares of construction area, but it is obvious that no one is interested, unfortunately, although we have wonderful landscapes in the interior of Croatia. They are all interested in coastal Croatia, which had 129 thousand hectares of coastal, building area. We have reduced this construction area means the total building area based on spatial plans that have been adopted by approximately 15%, so today it is 109 thousand hectares, meaning areas built throughout our coast, compared to 460 and some thousands that refer to all of Croatia. As far as tourist zones are concerned. Tourist zones, meaning those isolated tourist zones to which there are the most objections and most people react in spatial plans, in the county spatial plans that were all adopted in 2002 and 2003 were close to 14 thousand hectares. Today, these tourist zones, with the alignment of plans that had to be aligned with our Coastal Protection Regulation, have 10 thousand 317 hectares of seas. Thus, by more than 30%, the size of isolated tourist zones in the entire coastal area has been reduced. Of those 10,000... I must say that we still have thank God, four and a half thousand acres of completely intact but scheduled tourist zones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it will be important to watch what happens in them. In fact, with the new proposal for this law, we and this part have foreseen, we have found that, hopefully, we will bring it in soon, that you will soon bring it in, and it has been determined that special urban planning of the arrangement should be made for these areas, which will, of course, also talk about architecture and the schedule of individual uses in the tourist zone. And let me just say about Hvar. The most uplifted "dust" around Jelsa is because Jelsa by some, has larger building areas than were envisaged by the county plan or former spatial plans, which is definitely not true. The Jelsa plan isn't over yet, he hasn't been brought to our consent yet. But what's for sure is that in the county plan, the Jelsa area had about 380 hectares of tourist zones. Today, the Jelsa area, according to a county plan adopted and no plan can be opposed to that plan, is 227 hectares. Therefore, it is important to reduce, care, and care about the protection of space, and it would be good for all those who go public to really get acquainted with the real situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89706	Representative Mario Zubović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89707	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I asked that question precisely to be explained and not to manipulate the public on purpose what is done both in your ministry and in the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89708	Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89709	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, members of the government. My question is intended for the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and refers to what is already known in Croatia, which is that the government's project implemented by your ministry in the construction of entrepreneurship zones is really successful and all relevant indicators speak of it giving concrete results. However, often some municipalities and cities face problems in the lack of money to finance the electricity installations that are necessary for the zones to be operational and ultimately these electricity installations remain owned or used by HEP. I HEP itself as Croatia's electricity industry gets the importance when equipment as many industrial zones or business zones as possible and transfers as much energy to get more money for it. In Sibenik you announced the possibility of an agreement between Croatia and Croatia on the possibility of financing these connections. These electricity infrastructures and in connection with connections in industrial zones, tell us if any of these agreements are prepared and when it will be realised so that the faster and better units of local self-government, municipalities and cities can prepare areas more aggressively for the entities that want to operate in them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89710	Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89711	Thank you very much. It is precisely respected parliamentary representative that the project to build entrepreneurship zones is an extremely successful project of this Croatian government. The best examples of all our counties, cities about the 300 zone that is now being built or already built in Croatia, will testify. Therefore, the efforts of one designed action to support the construction of the zone from the position of all ministries and government have been paid out. I will remind you that we have tripled the resources that we encourage to build a zone compared to the previous period. I would like to remind you that the government has made a number of decisions on the allocation of land for the purpose of building entrepreneurship zones, and this project has indeed been adopted by all counties, cities and municipalities. What has been shown in practice has often proved to be a major problem for some municipalities, cities and financial areas, and above all an electrical connection, so a connection that is important to make that area operational. One of the infrastructure connections is the most important certainty that it is electrical. That's why I announced this possibility that you're mentioning, it will be realized during this month. This is also important to send to all cities and municipalities that have the right need to resolve the electrical connection so that during this month with HEP, an agreement will be reached in which HEP will also participate in the construction of entrepreneurship zones and in such a way as to co-finance the construction of the connection, the network to the zone and the trafostation to the zone. Finally, the funds that HEP will invest will return to it through the consumption of electricity in the zone and through the connection that entrepreneurs should pay when entering the zone but will facilitate cities and municipalities that they do not have to invest large funds in the construction of the zone. And it will certainly further speed up and facilitate the construction of entrepreneurship zones in Croatia. I think it's going to be one step higher and speeding up the completion of those zones that have started to build and prepare those areas that are yet to be built. And there's one more thing I want to say. HEP will be discussed and we will agree to facilitate the entry and payment of the connection due to HEP per kilowatt thousand kuna for entrepreneurs entering the business zones. Therefore, this connection will be possible, it is a matter of more details and arrangements with HEP whether only for production facilities or for all facilities in the zone will be possible to pay through the price of electricity. This was created with the possibility, with the new Electricity Act of 1.7 this year, so that HEP directly negotiates with those who buy electricity prices. Therefore, that price will be increased but not an entrepreneur in the zone will have to pay for the connection immediately at the start if it is a thousand kilowatts per thousand and a half kuna but will be able to pay through the energy price over the next few years and it will again make it easier for the entrepreneur that he does not actually have to make such large funds immediately at the start to pay for the connection to electricity. This is what I think another addition and encouragement to entrepreneurs and I am convinced that this project will end as announced with in the final 400 zones in Croatia but also with filled zones with entrepreneurs and with open new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89712	Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89713	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I am extremely pleased with the minister's response. And I expect that, with all these measures now taken in the construction of industrial zones in the creation of new plants, this will be an additional stimulation for our entrepreneurs to build even more quickly, even more quality, in these 400 industrial zones and I am particularly interested in Virovitica-Podravska County, where there are even twenty industrial zones that will be safely in the function of economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89714	Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89715	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, Prime Minister. Well, one question of life I want to ask either Mr. Prime Minister or Mr. Polancec, or Mr. Shucker. I don't care who answers. One question of life for Croatia's shipbuilding, life-long for Istria, too significant. Here's "New List", "Glas Istria" 8.6.2007. published the title "Government Saves Shipyard by Freezed Credit Obligations". That's those 4.2 billion kunas that were awarded in the amount of a billion 700 million kuna "May 3", a billion kuna "BrodoSplit", 625 million kuna "BrodoTrogir", 220 million kuna "Kraljevici" or should be given to them, clearly "Uljanika" zero kuna. This moratorium should help the shipbuilding industry, more specifically these shipyards in Rijeka, Kraljevica, Trogir and Split. Someone will say it's pushing hot potatoes to the future government but the shipbuilding was a hot potato and this government, and every government will be. But what do I care? What's here now is the position of the Oilman, which all these credit lines are bypassing and to whom, for example, the freezing of this loan doesn't apply. Here, I'm reading yesterday's "The Oils Sales Competition by the end of the year", "The Public Offer of Oil Shares". Why are you gentlemen planning to privatise "Oljinik" by the end of the year, or rather announce a privatisation tender for "Oljiniks"? Yesterday, the World Bank Director for Croatia and Minister Schuker signed that 150m-euro loan and the condition of the loan is privatisation of state-owned enterprises, your money to the Istrian new owner of "Uljanika". Instead of privatizing bad shipyards, we're headed for the Oilman. I don't want to be honest with you if I'm not afraid of tomorrow's economic and social uncertainty of an oil man like that. So, what are you going to do with "Olinik" and will this privatisation that is truly afraid of the vast majority of Pulježana and Istria, and should all of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89716	Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89717	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I thank Mr Cain, above all, for this question, and I call upon him once again to seek all relevant information regarding the rehabilitation and restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding in the right and only possible relevant place, which is in the Resor Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia and not to be informed from writing regional or local media. Because often what is found in them does not correspond to the truth. So we are aware of the weight of the problems in Croatian shipbuilding, in the 5 largest Croatian shipyards we have launched the rehabilitation and restructuring and development of the national plan and individual recovery plans and restructuring of all our shipyards. The most important elements of each of these individual plans are the following: in each other except for the oil shipbuilding site the accumulated losses are today above the level of the underlying capital. That has to change. It can change in two ways. One way is to address the issue of maritime goods, so that some of the property that is now in the maritime goods regime is no longer in the maritime goods regime and these properties can be completed by the recapitalisation of the shipyard. Another way to address the issue of positive underlying capital is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Finance, will, on certain loans covered by state guarantees, assume the obligation to pay these loans for each shipyard for the next ten years. In this way, a request will be made by the Ministry of Finance from each shipyard and this claim will be transferred to the underlying capital. This will capitalize on the shipyard. It is one of the steps in which we are thinking of, of course, helping to resuscitate and resuscitate Croatian shipbuilding. This will bring us back to the situation that the underlying capital is positive, but on the other hand, we will provide the shipyards with liquidity and the possibility of settlement of remaining liabilities. I said that the national plan is very important. We agree with the European Commission. And we agree on individual plans with the European Commission and individual plans, so for 5 shipyards. By doing so, I definitely confirm once again that the benefits of recovery and restructuring will be given to the Oilman. Although the Uljanik is the most successful of our shipyards and the one in the recovery and restructuring has gone the farthest. As for the inscription on possible privatisation, it will happen when conditions are created for it. Some of the preconditions are the first to address the issue of maritime goods. A very complex problem since it is a complete maritime good and property on the maritime good they entered the basic capital of Uljanik. We are on track to resolve this issue, and we resolve it in cooperation and in contact with the management of the Uljanik Shipyard, with the unions and insist all the time on the involvement of the unions and therefore workers in this process of rehabilitation and restructuring. So when the conditions are created then the privatisation of the Oilies will be accessed, and the management, the workers of the Oilies and the city of Pula and the entire Istrian County can be calm because we will do it in a way and under conditions that will be acceptable to all of them. That's our working principle. These are the principles of social dialogue. These are principles of protection of the interests of local and regional self-government. By these principles, we will function in the future. And be still, nothing will happen to the Oilman, the bad and the bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89718	Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89719	Mr. Vice President, Cain is being briefed at the best possible location. Not in your ministry, but in Uljanika. At Karl Radolovic's. I was just talking to Carl yesterday, "Carlo, what is this contest? A contest for the Oilman by the end of the year." And he says to me, "What is it? What, what can I tell you? I read as much as you do." Don't shut down the U.S.O. I, to be honest, I'm afraid of privatisation. I'm afraid of one of those kind of privatisations. On the other hand, in this story about the recovery, the same shipyards always appear: "Third May", "Brodotrogir", "Brodosplit", and "Oliniku" is threatened by privatisation. So far, the recovery must have cost the state or taxpayers more than 20 billion kuna. No results. And it could really be that shipbuilding and this prolonging of credit time bomb to some future government. And if... I said shipbuilding is a time bomb to every government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does that moratorium mean? Present relief, but in a year, two double the burden. But clearly, I'm most simply intimidated by these titles "The Oilman Competition by the end of the year". I get, at least I'm worried even though I want to believe that it won't be anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89720	Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89721	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The question goes to the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport, Development. On the last "Current afternoon" I asked a question about road construction corruption, for example the construction of a fast road Galženica-Zadar 2. If it had ended in that case, we could have said, "There happened an unwanted exception." But unfortunately it was just a key that opened Pandora's box of corruption affairs, crime, nepotism, extortion. Today I would like to say a few words about the new fraud of Croatian taxpayers. ... I can get down there. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] May I? It is a deal on the full profile of Rijeka-Zagreb highway where the price of EUR 209 million planned for construction works increased to EUR 248 million. [[The intruders don't understand.]] So for some 300 million kunas more with the trend of further growth. I stress that the first price of EUR 209 million was confirmed in a justification study carried out by a respected French company for the purposes of the EBRD. That's one fact. The other fact is even more interesting. The consortium, which received the job as subcontractors, introduced companies that participated in the main competition, which is totally contrary to the Public Procurement Act and the EBRD rules, which together with the European Investment Bank, is the financier of this job. Finally, as a subcontractor, the consortium also hired "Builder's Fund" which was not listed in the tender documentation. And as sugar at the end as a co-operant and "Build Fund" also reports a firm closely linked to one of the ministerial assistants in the competent ministry. This is only part of the illegalities observed on this highway, but enough to conclude that it is again a falsified competition where business-like companies are subsequently shared with a possible good profit for those who negotiate what best shows the case of extortion in Karlovac where the employee of this ministry participated very actively. Question: who is responsible for this new cloudy work in road construction that seems to be becoming a noose that will pull the entire government into the abyss of corruption and crime? [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89722	Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89723	Thank you, Mr. President. Representative Pancic from his previous communication with you either through a press conference either here in Parliament has shown himself and proved that your arguments mean absolutely nothing to you. And the facts mean absolutely nothing to you. Your goal and task of the party that you have received is clear and transparent, and it is muddy, lie, construct with the goal of reducing and blackening the successes of road construction seen by every citizen of this country and who see also our guests who come here and get international recognitions for construction. At this moment, it's being built according to the River, which your government isn't even thinking about. It's built towards Osijek, it's built towards Sisak, it's built towards Dubrovnik. Merge the castles. The construction of a historic railway investment will soon begin, which is the riverbed of Rijeka – Zagreb. An international public tender for the construction of the Peljega Bridge has been launched. It's getting ready to build a channel. During this government, a 407km highway was built and released. During your government, which you boast so much about 159 kilometers of highways. And that's what you can't deny and that's what you can't deny. And that's why you're trying to blacken it up. All jobs are obtained in international public competitions, obtained by Croatian builders, which I believe and every Croat is proud of, perhaps you would like someone else to do. But Mr. Pancic, where exactly are you? How about honesty, about law, about morality? I don't know if the MPs in this House know, after the former Minister Pancic was then relieved and appointed new minister 10 or 15 days after that, he still signed as minister of supply contracts for goods and services. Here's Mr. Pancic and his moral character who dares to call everyone and everyone. Not to mention the malfeasances that were in his ministry when he was a minister. Not to mention the disaster he made for Croatian defenders and their families. So, Mr. Pancic, you're the last one who can talk and talk about it. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89724	Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89725	This was the sting of a dazed mosquito. If you took a little, you probably wouldn't notice. But you're taking a lot, which you might say you're taking out of your eyes. And the worst part is for Croatian citizens, you're not tired yet. So how much longer do you need? But Mr. Sanader, you're hopefully a serious man. You yourself see that this is about a major European affair. Not a small card to Karlovac where the tender was cancelled because the price went up. This is about European banks, this is about European firms. Brussels is constantly complaining about corruption, and it looks like European firms are supporting corruption along with some ministries. But you'll have to do something, first of all, for your reputation. Because people in the ministry, people in the Croatian highways, people in the Croatian roads say you're behind some companies that get jobs, which I don't believe. And that is why this affair of Rijeka – Zagreb must be resolved. And I just asked why the price from 209 million kuna rose to 248 million kuna, euros, and why the Public Procurement Act was not respected. And I'll tell you Article 60 point 16. I Article 66(2)
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89726	Thank you. Representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89727	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, honourable members of the government. I refer the issue to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. In the Croatian Parliament, we adopted a communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the European Union and preparations for membership. We know that Croatia faces the challenge of obtaining support from its citizens for a positive decision in a referendum on entry into the European Union and that this should be helped by the adopted Communication Strategy and its activities. Therefore, public information on the European Union is one of the priority activities for membership. In this context, I would like to welcome the recent launch of the voice portal "Hello European Union" on which citizens can ask questions about everything they are interested in about the European Union. I believe it is an excellent initiative that will certainly contribute to further quality information and motivation of the public for membership in the European Union. I would ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations, Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, to bring us closer to the exhibitions that have been undertaken specifically by the Communication Strategy to date, with a special reference to the launch and functioning of this voice portal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89728	Minister Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89729	Thank you, Mr. President. The communication strategy for informing the Croatian public about the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the membership of the European Union is very intensively implemented. And along with a series of already existing seminars activities, and over the last year, about three hundred for 6 thousand participants were organized. Through various publications, we published 16 publications only during these last year. Through the activities of the European week, various competitions for pupils of primary and secondary schools, various promotional activities, the EU-bus that has traveled throughout Croatia and in direct contact with citizens also provided information on the various aspects of EU accession to our national forum, which is here, is regularly met across cities in the Republic of Croatia and again in one open form of communication to citizens, but is also giving answers to questions, but it also receives reactions from citizens in particular in those issues that are particularly interested in them. The voice portal "Hello EU" to remind me was established about a month ago. This is a free number of phones for which citizens can receive answers to questions about the European Union, its institutions, as well as the process of Croatia's accession to EU membership by calling for 0800 622 622. This has proved to be an extremely useful, excellent activity because here it is in this month, and questions can be asked from 8am to 20pm by operators or can be listened to recorded messages. We also daily record up to 400 questions from citizens who, and the most diverse questions about the very institutions of the European Union, are very specific issues concerning adaptation, everyday life, work, we have a lot of questions especially from young people, young people, students and students, and it is obvious that this kind of communication also helps to create seminar work and homework, but it is important that there is this great interest by the very young population. There are many questions from farmers on the establishment of new farms in the European Union, on incentives, etc. and we will base this experience on issues that interest citizens and new publications, unite them. We recently issued a second edition of the publication 85 questions and answers for Croatian farmers. The publication of 75 questions and answers for Croatian fishermen is in preparation, and we will continue to address other target groups of the population, especially young people, pensioners, entrepreneurs, women and all others who wish to prepare for not only the vote in the referendum, but also adapt the life of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89730	Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89731	Thank you for... and this data you've provided, but also the latest data on the growing support. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] As far as Croatian citizens are concerned towards the European Union, they show that the government is doing well and, of course, should continue in the same direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89732	Representative Vladimir Kurečić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89733	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President and members of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. I will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Petar Cobankovic, about the implementation of the SAPHARD programme in agriculture. SAPHARD is a pre-accession European Union programme for candidate countries, supporting the preparation for the use of funds from the Common Policy Funds, and aims, among other things, to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture and the processing industry. Based on the national rural development plan, the programme is being implemented by the SAPHARD Agency, which was accredited in the second half of 2006 and a tender opened last October with a first-round usability range of between 5% and 6% of the available funds, and 5 projects were approved. I ask Minister Cobankovic to respond that there is an application for another SAPHARD competition, how many applications and when can be expected to be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89734	Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89735	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I'm going to try very briefly to respond. Second tender for funds under the SAPHARD pre-accession programme is under way. The competition opened from 28 March and runs until 28 July. 17 requests have been received so far. The first five received requests have already been processed and we can say that they meet the full conditions and contracts will soon be signed. Thus, it is evident that the use of per demand will be significantly higher than it was in the first competition. Since the tender is open until July 28th, and we know from the experience from the previous tender that the gro-request will come conditionally in the last days of the competition. I expect that the resources from SAPHARD will be used in a high percentage. But what is important to highlight for the second round of competition is that we have been able to negotiate together with the representatives of the European Commission, because unfortunately in this pre-accession fund nothing can change from the conditions without agreement and agreement with the European Commission. We succeeded in respecting and assessing what was restrictive in the first competition for I would say a relatively small number of approved requirements, we were able to mitigate the economic criteria, for example. To enable companies and companies that have a relatively small percentage state-owned so that those who have up to 25% state-owned can participate in competitions. It is also in line with the Construction Act that also users who exercise the right to enroll will be able to participate, so no ownership of parcels and land where buildings are to be built is necessary. These are some changes that will significantly facilitate and improve the usability of the SAPHARD program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89736	Representative Vladimir Kurečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89737	Thank you very much. It is known that the SAPHARD Fund, i.e. SAPHARD funds, is formed with 75% of the European Union's funds and 25% of the state budget, which is co-financed, or returns 50% of the real costs to the investor. This is a great opportunity for Croatia to become a reprocessor from overly raw materials, i.e. to move to the final production so that we can compete on a huge European market, so the implementation of the SAPHARD programme is very important for us. In that sense, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89738	The Honorable Representative, Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89739	Mr. President, Prime Minister and members of the government. My question is addressed to Minister Cobankovic, you already know that. Our agriculture is full of big problems, new ones pile up, and old ones don't get rid of each other. Small farmers live on the edge of existence and there are fewer and fewer. That is not strange because the existing agricultural policy suits the great and powerful. Here's an argument. 1% of users use as much as 23% of agricultural budgets, and only a hundred users spend 460 budget million kunas. Maybe they're the biggest problems in pig farming. About a million and 400 pieces of pig are produced in Croatia, and consumption is at least twice as high as production. Sometimes, however, it is justified to reach out for an intervention buy-in for the stabilisation of the market, but only when extra pigs appear on the domestic market. This surplus should be frozen and stored for later market regulation. According to information available to me for your ministry, that's no reason for an intervention buyout. Namely, excess pigs always appear in the same periods and are each related to the price of pork abroad. The price on the foreign market is now higher than in Croatia and there is already another intervention buy-in. So today for the peasant is the ransom price between 8 and 10 kuna per kilogram, and only a year ago was 15 kuna per kilogram. And as a reminder, I will point out that by the government's decision, the ministry subsidizes purchasers with 3 kuna per kilogram so that today's ransom price for live pigs is between 5 and 7 kuna per kilogram. Instead of farmers, the buyer is subsidized, apparently the trade lobby decides on subsidies, prices, when there will be imports, and when the intervention buys, rather than the ministry. I doubt that this intervention ransom does not result in the storage of pigmeat, but rather, immediately after it bows to the market at the request of the buyer. Question, Mr. Minister. Who are the importers and who are the buyers of the intervention ransom? I have the right to believe they're the same person.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89740	Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89741	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. You have the right to your vision, to your view of the situation in agriculture. But unfortunately, I have to talk you out of it, and I can show it to certain indicators. This is the second round of the intervention ransom. The first intervention purchase of pigs was in early 2004 for the reason that there was an immediate increase in the market that was going towards a decrease in price. And then that inherited part of the surplus was served in about three to four months and removed from the market. Just in a way and knowing the situation on the market that it's not the role of an intervention ransom to buy something and go back to the market right away because you didn't do anything then. By the way, one who participates in an intervention buy is obliged to make meat and processed meat from which he produces it, can only place it on the market, then there were three months after the purchase, for the reason that the market will stabilise. It is now a matter of intervention related to the occurrence of swine fever, the occurrence of a conditional ban on traffic, the prevention of traffic at cattle fairs and the like. For these reasons, a certain market surplus has appeared in small producers. But through these two rounds of intervention ransom so far has been bought as I've already said cca. Sixty thousand pieces of pig. For comparison, in Croatia, about 100,000 pigs are slaughtered monthly in slaughterhouses. And that's, these indicators that show it. So this isn't about disrupting the general market. The market works and the ransom goes but this is about helping small producers to solve their market surplus pigs for reasons because in the fight against prevention, further spread of swine fever we have put certain limits on. And according to that, it should be done to make out of these people, to enable them to be redeemed. And that's the point of an intervention ransom. This has nothing to do with either the export price or the import price. It's a matter of immediate resolution, of the current surplus cattle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89742	Representative Zvonimir Sabati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89743	Mr. Minister! You've obviously heard wrong. I don't need an intervention buy-in theory. I have read many things to God, and I know many things even though I am not an agronomist. I asked you the question, who are the importers, and who are the buyers? I think they're the same people. I wanted that answer from you. And I, by the way, have an opinion about swine fever. The Croatian Peasant Union has warned of that, too. Here, now warns the Association of Pig Breeders. So there's a difference in the opinion of people who live, who actually earn bread from the production of pigs from your opinion. I ask the written answer, who are these importers and who are the buyers?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89744	Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89745	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, in this nice roll of unpleasant questions to this government, which, unfortunately, we are mainly not getting answers, but we are looking for excuses here, I am adding one question to Minister Vukelic, who unfortunately is very current again in Croatia. More and more workers for their work don't get paid again. It is an epidemic that, with war and other horrors of the 1990s, destroyed Croatia. Here, yesterday were the Dalmatin women's workers who haven't been getting paid for months. It's a similar situation in Elcon, Zlatar Bistrica. The "Bizovac" brick. It's where workers don't get paid for years. "Gramat" Zagreb. ZUC, etc. Some today’s employers obviously act as modern feudalists, feel that workers have the right, have the right to wear them out to the limit in order to maximise their profits at minimum wage or even without that surplus cost. Such ones are not only destroying workers and their family but also harming other honest employers who consciously fulfil their obligations toward the worker and the state. In short, they do not only harm the individual but also the entire state. My question is, why does this government not pay the worker up to... The injustice isn't something that's supposed to cause her most severe reaction? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In short. What are you going to do to make workers who work get their due salary?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89746	Minister Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89747	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. The government has been taking a number of measures from the outset to make there are fewer workers who are not getting paid, which are measures aimed at restructuring companies, firms that are under difficulties in supporting these companies. And I have to say that in the last three and a half years, I haven't seen a lot of these labor protests unlike that time before, about unpaid salaries and everything that's going on. You mentioned Elcon. Elcon, who has received his salary and is paid with the support of the government and the ministries and joint and management of Elkona and with the ministries and vice president Polancec, is involved. A restructuring programme is sought, a model for finding a strategic partner, a model for whether there are visions of sustainability on the market above all. So the best battle for workers and the security of their salaries is to raise the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, to help all those under the Law on State Support and what we must respect today. All of them, therefore, who have a chance for sustainable development on the market. And I think this government is going in a lot of examples, and in every example, it has shown quite a sensitivity to the rights of workers. A team more in the restructuring program than Croatian shipbuilding, from black metallurgy, into all these programmes, projects are included as partners unions. Therefore, workers not only care about them in a way that heals the economy and helps those who have difficulties but who share in the design of the programme, projects aimed at healing those who cannot, unfortunately, regularly pay salaries or have difficulty in doing business. Therefore, this government is making and will continue to make sure that those companies are recovered as soon as possible, those companies that have temporary difficulties. And I'm particularly happy and happy that these companies are getting smaller, that the restructuring program is going, that companies are getting stronger and healthier and that we actually have less and less of the problems you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89748	Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89749	Mr. Minister, you've been fighting with reality, it seems that only your feet still have contact with reality. Namely, here you go. The indifference in this country is growing, it's data from FINA. It's $12.17 billion not charged. Therefore, the state is a liquidity generator and those honest employers who intend to pay cannot pay or pay exactly because of the debt of the state to them. But you know why you haven't watched as many protests as there should be. Because you banned those same workers here... share fate with the workers. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89750	Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89751	I refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care Mr. Ljubic and my question is... debt in health because for the fourth time during your authority of a particular association or employer or wholesaler, or pharmacists warn of the problem of health debts. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] In fact, the current total HZZO debt to pharmacies is 2.2 billion kuna and in the last three months has been increased by a new 200 million kuna. The time limit for paying pharmacists has already come to 270 days, which means that medicines are paid with a delay of nine months. It's not just the billing problem from the pharmacy. The best hospital pays its suppliers within 365 days and, for example, the Dubrovnik hospital has not paid its medicines for neither 2005 nor 2006. If you continue the total payment deadline this way, it would be 300 days before the end of the year, which is the definitive collapse of the health system and the availability of medicines to our citizens is questionable. Today, the prime minister here spoke of paying back the pensioners' debt, talking about the need to resuscitate banks, about how some companies will be rehabilitated. So my question for everyone has money, the question is when will the money be found for our sick citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89752	Minister Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89753	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm not going to tell you that in 2000, 2001, 2002, you cut your salary to all health care professionals, our doctors, our sisters. I'm not going to say that these years during your government and the coalition government that people didn't know when they were going to get paid, she often fell behind. I'm not gonna talk about the fact that people came because they didn't have any medication. Croatia didn't have any drugs at the time that countries that were in an environment that had much less income. I'm not going to talk about the fact that, for example, you've devastated the health care system because you've allowed our 12,000 children in Slavonia to have no paediatric health care. And I'm not going to mention the fact that you left 7 billion kuna debts. That's right, we got half back, half left. But now I'm going to show you some data. Here, this is a table coming from the last Governing Council of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. The title of the table is "The Review of Obligations of the General Hospital", which is about the achieved and outstanding obligations. This is called a line of continuum or a continuous line. Growth is gone, obligations are the same. In a year, the increase is 49 million kuna, which is 0.7% to 7 billion kuna. Another piece of information that I will also tell you from the board's session, and it's expanded where here are the representatives of your party who unanimously supported it, and I'm glad that it means that we're getting closer to pushing petty politicians out of the health system and that really competent people are discussing this system. The data that clearly shows the first four months of this year's drug consumption of 950 million kuna, four months last year 990 million kuna. At the same time, of course, the number of prescriptions, the number of prescriptions issued, so people are being treated with medicines and we will no longer allow, as your government has limited the number of recipes per fuse. So where's that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89754	Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89755	Mr. Minister, aren't you really uncomfortable after four years of government accusing the former government of health problems? For four years, you've had time to solve health problems, the data I read here are the data that were presented to the public... And it's perfectly normal for them to rule out when they won't hear what they're not hearing. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] So, these are the records of the pharmaceutical association, these are the data of the Association of Employers in Health. So, Mr. Minister, I really think you should be embarrassed because after four years you're calling on the former government. And on the other hand, gather up courage, look the citizens in the eyes and admit that you are not able to solve problems. That would be a lot fairer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89756	And a representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89757	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the minister of the family, the defender and the intergenerational solidarity of Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now they won't listen, but we will. In the framework of the training and employment programme of Croatian defenders carried out by your ministry, you recently signed new 20 contracts to encourage defenders working in defence cooperatives. I ask you to tell us how many defense cooperatives your ministry has financed so far and what you intend to do in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89758	Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89759	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Representative. Here, I am sorry that the representatives and representatives of the SDP came out as soon as you started asking questions about care for Croatian defenders and of course a special employment project, but here are the ones who stayed I believe you will listen to what I think can fill us with satisfaction but of course the projects we are planning for the future. Maybe I'll start by saying here we are at the end of a new programme for the recruitment of Croatian defenders and children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders since our employment programme is the Croatian Government's programme. And we will propose soon that the Croatian Government accept a new four-year employment programme based on the excellent experiences we have so far because we have put the employment of Croatian defenders again as one of the central places in the Croatian Defence Ministry. That's what we call a target group. It's a great response. We have only hired more than 800 Croatian defenders through programmes in the first 6 months of this year. Well said I just recently signed 20 new contracts for the new 20 cooperatives that we support each with 150 thousand kuna. We sign off on Monday with a new 10 and then in July with 10 Croatian defenders' cooperatives. So a total of 40, we planned 40 this year. However, given the excellent results of the defence cooperative, we will probably go after the rebalancing of funds to tender for another 25 cooperatives. So far, we have invested in the employment of Croatian defenders and children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, when I say so far I mean, of course, the Government, we have invested about 100 million kuna. This year, it's going to be about 140 million kuna. And we managed to hire more than 5,000 Croatian defenders by this year. I repeat, this year's data is excellent. By the end of the year, I believe it'll be even better. Because employment is one of those ways that we primarily show respect for these people, but in many cases especially for cooperatives and ways to help exactly Croatian defenders who have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder. It is the cooperative that gives excellent results, because people together, work together, and what is most important see the results of their work, see the results of their wits, their tenacity because in this way the defenders enter the world of entrepreneurship which, as we know, is not always ideal, but are successfully fighting. We have excellent examples that Croatian defenders already work on export projects through cooperatives. That, in many cases, at different fairs, those cooperatives involved in agricultural production also receive specific recognitions. It's not just cooperative. We have projects of self-employment or retraining projects or training of Croatian defenders because we know that that was exactly what one of the biggest problems was when people came back after defending the country after they defended Croatia. Free Croatia. Then very often they either did not find jobs, or unfortunately their jobs disappeared, or they no longer had qualifications to engage in new employment. So here, Madam Representative, thanks to you for answering, I can say that we are moving forward in this programme and that within the next 4 years, we will give further encouragement to the entire programme of the care of Croatian defenders and members of their families, which means quite certainly more cooperatives with which you started your question. In the end, I'll say it in conclusion. When I came to the Ministry, there were zero cooperatives, and now there are over 200. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89760	Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89761	Thank you very much for your comprehensive response. I am truly sorry that my colleagues from the SDP are not interested in what they showed and when they were in power. I'm really glad to see the program of training and recruiting our defenders within cooperatives. Especially knowing what working therapy means for defenders who have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder. And that's why it's really full of support. And I would just like to point out that cooperatives that have not received the incentive often do not meet the conditions prescribed by the competition, so here is my cooperative from my Bjelovar-Bilogor County, defense cooperative Chazmatrans, who has 150 defenders and thanks to this positive answer, will be able to report to the next competition and I believe that they will meet the conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89762	Ladies and gentlemen, Agents of the "Current Morning" is over. We continue at 3:00 with a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. It's number one. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act, first reading P.Z. No. 686 The Proposer of the Law is Government. The debate was conducted by Committees on Law, Labour, Social Policy and Health, Family, Youth and Sports, Gender Equality, Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubicic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89764	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, please allow a few introductory words about our proposal, the draft Law on Amendments and additions to the Social Care Act. As you know, here are a few months ago, and with the full support of all our social partners and all the stakeholders within this system, the Government adopted the Social Compensation Reform Strategy. Here we have recently signed a joint Memorandum of Social Integration of the Republic of Croatia. It was also signed by the European Commissioner himself. These are actually two basics, two basics, so to say documents that clearly provide guidance on where and how politics will actually go within the social care system in Croatia. Allow a few sentences about a project where several times this was discussed in this House. It is a project to develop the social care system that the government presented to the public at the end of 2004, in early 2005. I must honestly say that the project is supported very positively by the European Commission and, on account of that, we have actually achieved the World Bank loan, which means that we actually want to make the system a more effective one. But first, we've targeted ourselves as a prerequisite, and that's an improvement in infrastructure. What is most important is that this project develops a social care system has a clear vision. The vision is a structural and financial decentralised system. That's something we've made clear. And I'm going to say that we're establishing standards under which we can no longer nor want to go. Of course, we would create preconditions for tomorrow's overall problem-solving social care system, and I repeat again for the system of structural, or fiscal decentralisation, we must create certain preconditions. It is in this sense that these proposals related to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Welfare and a few actually sentences about what we specifically propose. The first thing, and on this we have made a broad public debate, I want to make it clear that not only our social partners, trade unions, employers, but also our profession have supported us in this regard. Why? Because the segment that we are proposing, and I, is actually about uniting certain rights is actually a segment that will greatly facilitate the work of employees in the centres of social care, but at the same time, through this reduction of the administration process through the reduction of procedures, allow individual rights to be accessible to those who are intended. Of course, what we also desire is to reduce this great administrative process. I don't know if you know that today in our centers every object, whether one person is exercising two or three rights at the same time, each object is actually being conducted as a separate object. And quantum, I'm going to say to the paper that's actually being fulfilled is so much so that actually often those who want to achieve it and can exercise a certain right to make them practically collect individual documentation for months. I think that this is absolutely unacceptable today and that in this sense we should actually seek to make this administrative, unnecessary procedure as short as possible. This is why we propose here that the current 17 rights be introduced by 7, or one additional 8 new rights. I'm going to say that this is actually going to be a significant step towards something that we've already launched, and it's about informing the social care system. What does the information system mean? Perhaps as a best example, we do not have a clear coordination today as far as anyone within the social care system gets through the welfare center, as much as it gets from the county, for example, as a source or local self-government in terms of cities and municipalities. So these data just don't exist today. Those who are more resourceful of course get more. Those who are less resourceful get less. And I think it's absolutely inappropriate and that we must finally put an end to that sort of thing. As a basis for information, it is also of course the unification of rights. Why? Because right now 17 different patterns I think would actually make a bigger nightmare than there is and in some way as a prerequisite for this information again I repeat it is a reduction of administration. What of course is not irrelevant, and that is to shorten any procedures we will allow our professional staff inside the centre to become more committed to field work. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that a few years ago the work of our professional employees, and how many there were, and we know there weren't many, that they didn't actually have a chance to work on the ground. We have to focus today on all these people working on the ground because that's really what we want from the welfare system today, and that means field work, work directly with users, because that's actually what has to be the ultimate goal. The second thing we propose for these changes and supplements is an extra charge for children. According to the National Population Policy, child allowance is not considered to be income and is excluded from the total income of the family in calculating support for a multi-member family. I don't think there's going to be anyone in the House who won't be very supportive of this proposal. Why? It is indeed a step more, a step in helping me to say so to our multi-member families. What I'm proud of is actually introducing a new right. It's the right to parenting status. There's been a lot of talk about it, maybe for the past few years. But so far, no one's actually had enough, so I'm going to tell both the strength and the skill to actually do it. I think the moment has matured to introduce a new right, so that through the system of unification we would practically represent the 8th right. I would like to make it clear that few countries in the European Union have such a right not because they do not recognise it, but because it is really difficult to actually be such and valorised, and I must admit and financially value it. We have decided on such a system in such a way that we will make it possible indeed for parents of children with the most severe damage. Maybe for an illustration, I'll just say one thing. At this moment, of 2 hundred and 50 children in Croatia, as many as there are, which are incompetent to the basics, to satisfy their basic elemental needs, which means that they are either connected to special breathing devices or are entirely, therefore, immobilized, fed on a probe. Of the two hundred and fifty such families in 116 families, we have one parent who is not employed. We, with this right, offer these parents a system of employment. So we want them to take care of their child, and that's what I mean, the most sublime thing they accomplish through the form of professionalism. Why? Because taking care of your child who unfortunately has special needs, because I repeat it is about children with the most severe damage we have to help and I think that by opening up the possibility of this right, means the right to parent status, we absolutely do a big step. What exactly is this about? It's about making up for the worth of 2 thousand kuna plus all that's going to go for the contribution. This means that by caring for your child, he will practically be able to earn his pension. Therefore, all contributions it has, including health and pension in such a way as to achieve, at the end of 65 years, a male person, if so, 60 for women to exercise the practical right to full pension. We are also opening another element that we have, and I can say in one pilot project we tried in 2005. It's about professional help in the family or I'm a cartoon, and we like to say it as a patronage. Namely, it is one out of the institutional form of care for a physically, mentally damaged person, a form that we actually wanted to live in such a way that our homes for mentally ill persons, that our homes and other types of people practically go out into the field and primarily foster families or families that have children with the most severe damage to help them directly in their homes. So, something that we have for many years in the health care system as a patronage care we wanted in some way to repaint here and enable such a single system of patronage, of course using already those professional employees that are available to us in our homes. Also one thing that I personally initiated in 2005 with actually an order, and now we want to incorporate it into the law, I repeat, because we want to create one base under which we do not want to, nor want to go, and that is the right to support financially the students who were users of our homes, therefore the homes of social care. You know that right now we're scholarshipd with a thousand and 500 kuna practically all students. We don't watch so much whether someone really is a regular student or not. Why? We think that we should really focus today, and we want to be a country of knowledge, and that's a couple of times here in the Parliament, and in the end, it's actually one of the basic messages that this government is promoting, and in this context, children who were users of our social welfare homes, we want to stimulate with a scholarship, and of course we have incorporated that into these legal provisions. And finally one thing I first promised before the profession, I think it was May or June 2005 at a large social workers' meeting in Zadar. For the first time, I actually talked about the need to protect professional dignity not only among social workers, but also among the different types of those who perform rehabilitation, so to our defectologists, logos, etc., which is the establishment of a chamber. I think that today is an absolutely mature moment to establish a quality system not only of lifelong learning, not only of actual renewal of knowledge, but also of really establishing a quality system of control of professionalism, so control of really what each individual profession is. And with these proposals, we also create assumptions for the establishment of professional chambers in the social care system, I repeat as one contribution to professional affirmation of professionals within the social care system. Of course, many have actually commented and said well to the ministers, so why didn't you go into the new law, this whole law that you're actually announcing? It's the easiest thing to write on paper, and then it doesn't happen. We're in the process of piloting the project where we actually want to see how our county centers work. It's not about that much space. It's about the organization. We want to see where there would be a lack of that system. Also, I must make that clear, we are also working on the principle of financing these county centers. Why? It is not only important to achieve structural decentralisation, but we also want to add a certain quantum fissus to it. And this would compare decentralisation, because today many are full of decentralisation mouths, and it seems to me that many who talk about it and don't know much about it. Perhaps the best example is to look at self-government stakeholders who have insisted on the premises of the former state. Self-governing interest communities were really a good paper viewing model of decentralisation. Unfortunately, that system could never liven up. Why? Because one of the basic preconditions for such a system is that we have equal development in all areas of Croatia. It's impossible to make any fund of alignment that will make all the differences that exist evenly, and that's why decentralisation, yes, but we compare it to a small child. If you tell a little kid to run and it's just walking, it's gonna fall. No, we learn to walk first, and then we'll run. This is what we learn to walk with.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89765	Thank you. Committees work, social policy and health care. Representative, the respected representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89766	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 74th session of the Committee held on 23 May 2007 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 9 May 2007. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. In the discussion, the committee members supported this bill primarily because of the introduction of new rights which achieve the objectives of reforming the system by strengthening outside institutional forms of social care. In addition, the reform of social benefits achieves the basic objective of making social benefits more justly distributed within the resources available while increasing the share of social assistance funds depending on the property status of the users. However, it was also warned that following multiple amendments and additions to this law, it would be appropriate to propose a new law accordingly. This is more because it was also warned about the occasion of the adoption of the last amendments and additions. Such a law would be a step further towards creating a more rational and efficient system aimed at socially most vulnerable citizens. It is very important to assess the introduction of a new right of parenting status for parents of children with severe developmental disturbances and why this committee also advocated. Any envisaged measures such as simplification of the process, reduction of administration and introduction of new rights should contribute to better quality professional work and easier access of users of rights. After a brief discussion, board members unanimously decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act is hereby adopted in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and 2. Any observations, proposals and opinions raised during the first reading will be submitted to the applicant to take into account the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89767	Thank you. Family, youth and sport? Gender equality? Human rights and the rights of national minorities? I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HSU respected representative of Stjepan Kozina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89768	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The amendment and addition of the Social Care Act aims to simplify the procedure in the exercise of social care rights, to reduce administration, to unite rights and to regulate them in another way, to ensure quality professional work in order to facilitate access to rights users and to introduce new rights in order to improve the quality of life of socially sensitive groups. Out of the 18 rights that have been achieved so far, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Welfare of Unity and New 8 Rights, in order to reduce administration and facilitate the exercise of rights by users. The new 8 rights under the amendment of the law are: - right to permanent assistance, right to personal disability, right to compensation for assistance and care, right to care outside of your own family, right to help in the house, right to compensation for employment, right to help settle housing costs and the right to parent status. Social care rights due to the complexity of the rules that these rights are being exercised are caused by the lack of information from users, i.e. the lack of education in the exercise of social welfare rights. Professionals in social care centres have turned into administrative staff and so they do not do their basic and basic work, do not visit their users and do not give advice as they should be. We believe this could be resolved through an integrated information system. This would leave more time for professional work with users. It is proposed to provide constant assistance for maintenance and assistance for the settlement of accommodation costs in the student home of the unit. It is proposed that professional workers, in order to reduce the process, could self-evaluate certain difficulties and determine one-off aid. That would be very good, Mr. Minister. Here, new facilities and care rights are introduced for all forms of accommodation and stay in the home of social care, in a home-organized apartment. It includes helping to include a child with physical and mental impairment in programmes of regular preschool and school institutions that have not been regulated so far. The funding of support is provided to students, former users care outside their own family. It is about users who, without material help from their parents inability to realize accommodation in a home of social care, had to deal with the issue of existence on their own. The right to help in the house is introduced as a new content and would constitute the right to help and care in the house to help the family develop the ability of users to acquire the necessary knowledge, skills, habits and the right to help eat. The right to compensation for employment is prescribed by law, not by regulation, as was boredom. The right to help settle housing costs would remain as regulated as ever. It's the only thing that should increase the base. The right to the status of foster parents is introduced with these amendments to the law. The right to parenting status can be achieved by one of the parents in cases where, according to the doctor’s recommendation, he is trained to perform specific care while such a need persists and pays for it. A moment ago, the minister spoke about it and we support it until the end. This must be considered a single profession. It must be kept in mind that it is not the person to whom the court proceedings are being conducted or is being given a measure of family legal protection or that no offence is being brought against it, or found guilty of domestic violence. There has been a public lack of home welfare lately. It's meant to be homes for older and powerless people. In particular, there is a lack of those homes where the founder is regional self-government or county. Such homes provide quality social care, housing service, living room, nutrition and care and health care. These homes are becoming more and more geriatric or small hospitals, with an increasing average age of users with a tendency to increased care and care. Professional staff in the form of nurses are not qualified enough for the above work. Since the Social Care Act does not provide for the compulsory employment of a doctor in a home, as well as other accompanying insurance laws as well as the Health Care Act is required in Article 158(1), the word "social worker" is added to the word "medicine general". A little bit in social care homes is becoming a health care problem. This should be brought into line with the Social Care Act, as well as with the Health Protection Act. Furthermore, in homes it is necessary to see that the adopted minimum standards meet the users. In particular, this applies to users whose pension does not cover the supply and their amount of 80 kuna does not cover the need for a personal hygiene monthly. According to the knowledge of workers in welfare centres, there is a problem with the transfer of social assistance funds from the Treasury to the users. There are several mediators who report here, and these funds have been traveling for a long time. And the workers at the social care centres have a problem explaining that to people, so please ministers if you can in any way condition to cut this short to get to the end user as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89769	Thank you. SDP club respected representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89770	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, really, after four years of government, I think we should have gotten a much more serious social welfare bill than the one we got. Unfortunately, for many categories nothing will move after this law has been passed because it is in the good part of pure cosmetics. What moves things better, but I'm going to say about it in that segment is giving parenting status, so parents who have children with multiple damages. Before I go on the subject, I would like to say a few more arguments why I think that after four years one far more serious and more comprehensive, more consistent Social Care Act should primarily be because social care includes a large number of our citizens and simply the whole social care system on the one hand should be put in order. On the other hand, the whole system should be made much simpler and much more practical. In fact, our citizens of the moment when they need help, for example, at the social care center often cannot achieve their right unless they have enough energy to push the entire system ahead. Simply red tape and high bureaucratism create obstacles to our citizens who can't achieve certain rights either because they simply have to, as one of my colleagues said, "The system is like an old fico that you have to push to drive something a little bit."that's how it is in our welfare system. Every day, we can read a number of tragedies that could in good works prevent the system from working a little differently and that it was somewhere at the service and at the help of our families. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Therefore, it was necessary to do much more for the welfare system to be effective and to serve the citizens because it exists. Unfortunately, in these four years, the deinstitutionalisation of social care has been halted, all that has been in some way started and drawn in that part has been completely stopped and four years in that part have been irrevocably lost. A lot of areas in the social care system have been unsettled. One of the areas was touched here by Mr. Secretary. It is about children who are without proper parental care, who are located in homes for carefree children. Their territory, therefore, their fate is completely unsettled by law. In some parts of Croatia, things work thanks to a mechanism that is well-studden, good will for people. However, in some other cities this works badly, and some of my colleagues will discuss it more specifically. Besides what's always being said here, which is that for everything the former government has done, I have to admit that today I remained a little bit more consterned by the fact that Mr. Minister here said that the scholarship for students leaving the carefree children's homes was the one he provided. Well, I would like to tell the truth for the sake of this fact that it is something that my colleague Davorko Vidovic, who then decided to provide scholarships at that time, seems to me to be about eight or eleven children who had managed to enroll in the study, and then by changing the authorities, it was that these scholarships moved to the Ministry of Science and that these children went to the scholarship contest just like all the other children. We then asked here on several occasions in the current hour whether the minister really thinks that children living without parents are growing up in a home, in an institution really in the same position as those children who grow up in their family and really have to have the same criteria to get a scholarship, which means going to the Ministry of Science's competition. Afterwards, the whole story returned to the Ministry of Social Care, and these children, in a way, are granted a scholarship through automation. One part of this law is definitely made not as one consistent approach to the government to this problem but as pressure from the public and pressure from associations dealing with certain problems. I'm specifically referring to this parent-care status here. I think the very responsible media specifically "24 hours" in this hall a year or a half ago collected signatures of support from MPs who are willing to vote for such a change of law. At that moment in this Chamber they signed it seems to me 76 MPs, all of whom were representatives from opposition parties, not one representative from the HDZ Club. Pressure was also done by associations that gather parents who have children with multiple damages, who simply live daily with their problem and who believe that their problem was time and solution. The fact is that so far we've had one law that was kind of discriminatory, which was bad. It was a provision under which, by the age of seven, your parents had rights and then they lost those rights and they had to put children in institutions. It was absolutely something that was inhumane, it was inappropriate and should therefore have been decided to ensure the status of parents of such parents and thus to ensure that they stayed with their children as long as they needed them. These parents have invested a lot in themselves, these are people who have learned to be doctors and nurses and carers, and parents, all in one person and indeed only those who have had the opportunity to see one working day of such parents know what all these parents are going through with the problems they have, so with a child who depends on them for every function that they have during the day, therefore from having to feed him, he can't just drink, he can't just go to the bathroom, he can't walk, so a child who's 24 hours depending on other people's care. In addition, they still have to push the entire system ahead of them to ensure some rights for their children. You had an example in the media of a mother who asked for help, disability, a particular disability, a certain financial assistance, a certain right for her child who is a child with multiple damages, which unfortunately on the commission is assessed as a child who doesn't need it, doesn't need such rights, and the woman has nothing left to do but speak to the Croatian media and thus to talk about how cruel the system is to such parents and how those who decide in the fate of those children actually don't often look at even the papers and let alone look at those children. And they decide their fates. I think this law with this parent status should open up another space for those parents, which is that those parents who can work for 4 hours can actually pay those 4 hours and some kind of help on the side. Some kind of assistant. So the person who's going to be with that child for those four hours. I think that these parents should also be provided in some way with the opportunity to care for their child that they can, can, and can work on the other hand. So that, after all, those four hours can be done and that they can be in the world of work and not actually be tied up with just taking care of their child. Because I think you can also provide both rights in these financial gauges. So those who can work for four hours I think they should also be provided with the means that in those four hours they can pay the professional person who will be with their child. According to some indicators in the housing institutions of such children, the state gives from 7 to 11 thousand kuna. If these are the exact calculations, and here are the associations and I, I got it from people who work in these institutions, then we ask ourselves with full right why the state has still allocated much less funds to those parents. So she has set aside 2,000 kuna plus contributions and certainly organizations warn that these financial resources do not meet their needs or better stated their children’s needs. One of the associations calculated that the minimum cost for such a child is about 7 thousand kuna a month because a lot of what they get has to be compensated. So they don't carry all the HZZO resources. It should therefore be said that in the assessment of disability in these commissions, order should be introduced. It was also warned by the child’s lawyer who also said that there was inequality in their work. It should therefore be done much more than to make sure that our children are in Zagreb or in Rijeka. That they can have some rights, and that, for example, in Split or in Čakovec, they cannot have those rights just because people in commissions have different, different decisions. It should also be said that associations that therefore gather parents who have children with special needs, or with multiple damages, warn for example of some other illogicalities in the system when their rights are at stake. They also warn that up to the third year of life, children who are the most difficult physically disabled are entitled to a parental escort to rehabilitation centres such as Kalus, which is the only rehabilitation centre of this type of patient, and that after that, they are not recognised and that they cannot be with their children. So once again, it's about children who need their parents' 24-hour care. So one really big illogicality. Why can that child have the right until the third year, and after the third year, that right no longer exists. So I think the same needs are up to the third year and after the third year. For example, they also warn that there are only a hundred children in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia who use clean, sterile catheterisation. It's spent 3 to 5 times a day on them. HZZO only approves once a day. Therefore, they must recompensate the rest and they are not small funds. So I think it would be good to see the second reading if it is possible to increase this amount of compensation for the parent’s parents in a way to meet the needs of parents and, parents or, above all, children. Here, and in the end I'd just like to say that here we are going to vote for this law in the first reading. Until the second reading, we'll see if the Ministry makes any changes to this law. Unless we give some amendments and, of course, it will depend on our statement in the second reading about this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89771	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89772	Mr. President, in her presentation, a colleague has made a number of incorrect allegations. And I'll just fix some. She said that these positive movements that exist in the law, especially when they refer to the parents of the guardians, were made because of pressure from the public and the media, which is not true. The Ministry of This, when the social security portfolio took over, found a major mess and this is a reflection of a constant and responsible policy. And if that were the case, I'd only read a few data. That 446 new employees had been employed in this portfolio from 2004 to 2007. That it was received, that 135 new cars were purchased which were personal for the needs of professional workers making vans. 150 trainees. That civilian associations were supported by about 90 million. That this loan from the World Bank of 47 million where the Republic of Croatia invests EUR 14 million, which proves that this sensitive, sensitive segment of society is accessible very responsibly and continuously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89773	The HDZ Club is a respected representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89774	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act. The needs of users are becoming more and more complex and this is one of the reasons for changing social policy rules and with one goal of preventing, easing and removing social threats. Today, a project is successfully implemented to develop a social care system financed from the World Bank investment loan, which aims to target the most vulnerable citizens, socially sensitive groups, with better compliance of social benefits and other various services that would lead to a more rational and efficient system. In doing so, we need to look at the existing infrastructure. In the Republic of Croatia, we have 80 welfare centres with 25 branches. 69 state homes with 1150 users. And 84 homes of other founders with 3 thousand 689 users. Of course, we also ask ourselves the question of personnel teaming and their expertise. The social care system should be directed towards the most socially vulnerable citizens best known by regional self-government units. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports further decentralisation and transfer of powers to units of regional (regional) self-government. The process of exercising the rights of the social care system is complex and demanding. This law simplifies the procedure, unites the rights, reduces administrations and introduces system information, unusually important, introduces forms of assistance without implementing the administrative procedure. For example, the existing 17 rights are united to 8 and, in order to simplify the procedure and to reduce the administration of the users of the aid so far, constant assistance is increased by the amount of accommodation costs in the student home. If a member of the family is a beneficiary of student services. Furthermore, so far the right to consult, to help overcome special difficulties and to provide one-time assistance to this law as forms of assistance without the implementation of the administrative procedure. This, in particular, reduces the process with one-time assistance and gives greater opportunity to assess professionals for the purpose of and justify the granting of assistance. It is also increasing the amount of one-time assistance the social care centre can grant without the consent of the ministry responsible for social care affairs. As a consequence, the allowance for children is not considered to be revenue, this law also deletes the provisions relating to the allowance for children with previous maintenance assistance in such a way as to limit the total amount of funds achieved with those two bases. This enables equal and fairer conditions for the exercise of the right to permanent assistance to multi-member families, which is in line with the National Population Policy. In the context of social care reform, the Croatian Democratic Community Club puts a special emphasis on the extra-institutional form of care and therefore all praises to the next law, the Household Act. Deinstitutionalisation is also carried out by helping to include children with special needs in programmes of regular pre-school and school institutions and occasional stay. Unfortunately, today we face examples where such children are not admitted to class but are given an exam at the end of the year. This law also develops other non-institutional forms of care, an example of professional assistance in the family, patronage, where psychosocial rehabilitation is provided. Parents with special needs have the right to leave up to 7 years of child's life, which is used by 3 and a half thousand parents. And on the other hand, they have the right to work with half the time, which makes 2,000 673 parents, so a large number. This law introduces the status of foster parents who should be considered a single profession. On the basis of this status, the parent shall make a fee of 2 thousand kuna with the payment of the contribution in accordance with the applicable regulations. This right solves the welfare center. In the field, we often face the problem of insufficient information from the party about the rights they belong to in the welfare system and how they are implemented. Therefore, permanent education and professional responsibility are necessary. The law also enables the establishment of professional chambers. Finally, the Republic of Croatia singles out the highest percentage of GDP for social care. To date, the welfare system has been stabilised, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has continued to show social sensitivity in this system, with the recognition of the continued improvement of social care activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89775	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative of Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89776	Thank you very much. The government does not show the sufficient social sensitivity of counterpart Caparin precisely because she did not accept amendments to the state budget to increase the foundations related to the granting of social care. You need to know social care since 2001 the basis for social care is 400 kuna and has not changed. So you can't say that there's enough concern if the government doesn't have the will and desire that after six years of fullness, it doesn't change the height of the base. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89777	The HSLS club, a respected representative, Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic. She's gone. The club loses its word. SDSS Club, Honored Representative Ratko Gajica. He's gone. The club loses its word. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89778	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed minister, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. I am pleased that social care is concentrated on the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Why am I saying that? To touch General Hospitals in Pula with only one sentence. And I personally believe that it is the biggest political health, social and social problem of the County of Istria. Istria County, which today has more jobs, something it had in '90s. Less unemployment than she was in '90. 35,000 voters more, and simply the problem of the General Hospital in Pula County cannot resolve the budget of 210 million kuna. And we are indeed calling for these restrictions to change because we believe that this hospital is discriminated against by the one in Zadar, Varazdin, Slavonski Brod, etc., but I will say something about it later. And that there must be no double these criteria for different health institutions. On page 2 of this proposal for a bill, it is said that the provision of social care at the state level is concentrated clearly on the Ministry of Health, which operates at the state level in the Republic of Croatia 80 social care centres with 25 branches that carry out over 146 functions that can be divided into public authorities in the field of social care, family-law, criminal and legal protection, professional-analytical and financial affairs. In the Republic of Croatia there are 69 state homes with a total of 10 thousand 115 users and 84 homes of other founders, it is about other legal and physical persons, including 46 homes for older and powerless persons over whom founding rights have been transferred to units of the area, meaning regional self-government with 3 thousand 689 users. This law regulates, above all, the right to parent status, care outside the family, assistance and care in the house, the establishment of these professional chambers etc. In the last two, three weeks, we've been in this House discussing a whole series of social laws, e.g. I don't know the Convention of Persons with Disabilities, so we talked about the Day of Invalid of Work, etc., and some laws that also deal with people with disabilities. And I would maybe at the beginning right now, or at the beginning just put an emphasis on the fact that Croatia currently has 429 thousand 421 persons with disabilities. In fact, this Law treats these persons indirectly. Of these 429 thousand people with disabilities, 245,000 are men, 184,000 women. Since birth, there have been 13 thousand 238, male 10 thousand 556, female 2 thousand 682. Since the war, we have 45 thousand 763 disabled men, 42 thousand 913 men, women 2 thousand 850. Invaluables at 109 grand, men 71 grand, women 38 grand. Of the disease 197,000 means total disabled men, 84 thousand men, women 113 thousand. Traffic accidents, etc., etc. This is the law understandable about social care, but let me notice this is how people with disabilities are the most difficult social cases. From... There are or are still 13,000 238 people with disabilities, I said from the Homeland War 45 thousand 763 people, and I personally believe that a social state needs to level them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no doubt that 429 thousand 421 people with disabilities are being allocated considerable funds. More specifically, for all categories of social care, including those with understandable disabilities, I don't think it's too much to say that this country singles out 10% of its budget. I don't think I'll be wrong if I say 10%. That means more than 10 billion at this point. It is a respectable amount and one of my predecessors for this speaker seems to me to have said that Croatia is also because of the fact that we have been since '91. '95. were in war, the consequences of war, etc. for those purposes or intentions, it allocates the most funds in Europe. I got a memo from a blind person. They are also called on to say the differences between fees or allowances obtained by disabled Homeland War 3 thousand 800, civilian war victims 3 thousand 320 kuna, disabled persons working 896 kuna, civilian disabled people 400 kuna, etc. And they also argue that when we are already quoting some of the requirements of some associations simply that category as equalised as possible. I think that should certainly be appreciated and tried to help these people. What's the key to the law is, in a way, made on pages 4, 5. So according to the Labour Act, parents of a child with severe developmental disorders can exercise the right to leave up to 7 years of a child’s life or the right to work with half the full time. The funds are secured on the ministry's burden of welfare affairs. Currently, up to the age of 7, the child’s life is used by 3 thousand 506 parents, and the full - time work is accomplished by 2,000 673 parents. This Law introduces the possibility for parents to exercise the right to parent status, etc., etc. It is also interesting that this patronage is also interesting, but if this Law ultimately brings only one kuna more clearly to the institutions, then it should be supported, but here, in the assessment of these necessary funds on page 6 and 7, it is said that additional funding from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia amounting to €13 million and €200 per year for the right to parent status,... thousands of kuna per year for the right to care outside of their own family and financial support to students, users of care outside their own family who have stopped permanent accommodation and 9 million 39,000 854 thousand kuna per year for the right to permanent assistance by exempting child benefits from the calculation of permanent assistance in multi-member families. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I quote in the following order: "In order to implement this law, it is necessary to provide a total of 23 million 39 thousand 54 kuna per year." So this is about some 3 million euros, and I almost dare say it's modest, modest, modest. The question is someone will say if for 3 million euros, the law should be written at all. It is the cost of first and second readings, transmissions, law preparation, etc. However, since the effects of the law are not short-term, they are not only written for the government's mandate or for a year, but for several, the law is certain to be supported because of its spirit, even because of these additional 23 million kunas or 3 million euros transferred. What are the important articles? Article 5: "Right to permanent assistance is recognised in the family as a member of the staff" etc. Then, article 52a: "Help and help in the house can be approved physically, mentally damaged person, mentally ill person." Then there is Article 59: "The right to compensation for employment is physically or mentally damaged or mentally ill person who successfully completed high school education under a special programme. Article 63: "The user of permanent and temporary accommodation may be granted assistance for personal needs at the monthly level of 20% of the basics referred to in Article 16." etc. I was deliberately quoting these four articles so that citizens who say they follow it over the Internet would get insight into the law itself. Why? Because that law carries certain material rights that a single parent or person can use. However, I am sure that the essence of the law is Articles 77a and 77b that the right to the status of parents and carers is recognised by one of the parents of a child who, through the maintenance of quality of life, needs to provide specific care and Article 77b: "A parent who has the status of a care provider has the right to pay a salary of 5 basics in Article 16 of this Act, the right to pension insurance, health insurance and unemployment rights as an employee under special regulations." And it is understandable that this should be supported, clearly these persons should recognize the status of carers. I think it's a good step, those measures don't need to be underestimated. Clearly, I said it was a sum of only 23 million kuna or 3 million euros. Maybe it's modest, maybe we should talk about simply increasing your amount. The law, once again, is essentially correct, should be supported because it is better to have those persons in the social care age or to share those 23 million kunas of budget money than to lose that money. It's better that they have the status of carers than they don't have them and that I don't list all these articles that I quote. I said, the correct approach is, however, 23 million kuna is not nearly enough to resolve the status of all these social "categories". And for the last time, I'm going to mention this General Hospital in Pula. Why do we have these different limits, and they calculated that the Zadar General Hospital gets about 20 million kunas more on the annual level. When looking at these beds from Pula, the General Hospital Slavonski Brod about 14.2 million kuna more, Varazdin 15.3 million kuna or better said General Hospital Pula in 2007 has fewer limits than comparable hospitals for 8.87% of Varazdin, 13.19% of Zadar General Hospital, 9.15% of Slavonski Brod and not to count further. I said it was about significant amounts. On the other hand, County with 210 million kuna per capita per year, there must be the biggest income in Croatia, and on the other hand we have Pula General Hospital with about 180, 190 million kuna. I'm sure Mr. Peru knows more about this than I do. He can't do any different business than he can show significant losses as they seem to be happening to me in Varazdin and elsewhere. At some point, I don't think I know if he praised or mentioned the SIZ minister. I think that they are a solution to Croatian health care at least for some parts, not for the state to kill all the money, to set limits for you on the other hand by your grandmother and uncles, so that you are ultimately, as a god-awful owner, only obliged to cover the annual dubiosis that is happening. I'm not saying all behaviors are correct. I also read what the minister talked about a few days ago about some glasses of 500 thousand kuna at the General Hospital in Pula, which were shared by collective agreements, these are significant amounts, but no matter what, I think that is a case that will most certainly be spoken of in due course in relation between Istria and political Zagreb. I think there's been a talk recently in Umag about the opening of a mini hospital and that the problem needs to be updated. As far as the law goes, once again, I think the spirit is correct. The limits of the pardon are relatively modest but the spirit is correct and so much should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89779	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89780	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague said wrongly, so I'm correcting this assumption that the General Hospital of Pula is in some sort of subordinate position compared to other hospitals because it listed only one part of the truth. The second part of the truth is that the General Hospital Pula increased the total debt in 2006/2005. 27.3% while the average of general hospitals is 5.1%. That it increased its overall food obligations increased its overall obligations for medicinal products, and failed the most in execution, as it executed the contract she signed with HZZ because it did not examine patients but sent them to other hospitals. And that's the reason for her bad business. And the hat of everything, she took... I speak as president of the Committee for the Control of the Hospital, which the Government has appointed and based on the report of the director of Mr. Lems, who was appointed there by the county. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And as a point on y, the hospital is illegally in charge of 71 million 935 thousand 549 kuna and that's for consumption, which is illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89781	Second correction by Honorary Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89782	Thank you. Well, my colleague Cain actually made two inaccuracies in one statement. He said the health minister announced the return of SIZ which is not true. He announced DTS. It's something else entirely. It's paying in a different way of service. And this inaccuracy to go back to the S.I.E.L.D. to save health would be a disaster. Remember what we had in '90. when we inherited SIZs and heavy debts, when he spent everyone as he wanted in his local community, and then everything was sent to Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89783	The club of representatives of HSS respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89784	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It is very strange for us at the Croatian Peasant Party club that we have before us the sixth amendments and additions to the Social Care Act adopted in 1997. ... I want to keep my mouth shut while you two do the math? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Thank you, Lippa. Any changes and additions assures us that a new law is in place so that by the day of today, it remains unclear, which is why it has been resorted to the hairstyle of the law six times already, and therefore the system that requires you to root out the changes. If there is no courage to approach these necessary but essential changes of the system, of course, ask the question whether we need a social care system at all? Of course we need it and not only because the Constitution says that we are a social state and we are obliged to care for the sick, powerless and poor, but also because we want to be both human society and the poorest and the most impossible to ensure such social security. All statistical indicators speak of the social disintegration of the population, the increasing number of the poor, before the human society called the state can't and cannot close its eyes. Of course we'll be told that we have a welfare system and we don't deny it. However, we wonder if this system is good? We don't think it's because of its injustice, inaccessibility and intransparentity. In this forest, amendments to laws, regulations and voluntary interpretations of welfare centres, social status-based rights are consumed only by the most capable and not the most needed. In smaller areas where everyone knows everything and knows each other, the system of social care is most often beset by a blizzard and mistrust in his righteousness and efficiency. Given the country’s material possibilities, we need a system of social care that would rest on a completely different philosophy, a philosophy that stems from a famous sentence of the same famous Nobel laureate and humanitarian mother Teresa. Don't give the hungry fish, give him the hook and teach him how to hunt. In a system based on such philosophy for social assistance, you do not come in super luxury cars and only then does it really come to the most needed. As a model of the social state, it is regularly referred to as Scandinavian countries, but if we look into that system, we will see all its rigorousity and justice. If we stick to people's sayings if you don't know what to do and how to do, look at what your neighbor is doing, we wouldn't necessarily be wandering around in the supposed search for a solution, but it's obvious that the system doesn't want to change, which is why we have frequent hairstyles that only contribute to the creation of a complete mess of the system and thus its ineffectiveness. The promoter expects these changes to contribute to improving the quality of life of the most vulnerable part of the population. We're not such optimists for the following reasons. Social care is achieved through a network of social care centres, social care homes and a centre for assistance and care. This involves a large involvement of professional workers and their exceptional activities for users, intensive user activities. However, the proposer himself says, I quote: "As a result of the lack of an integrated information system and the automatic exchange of data control and verification, a large part of the administrative work is done by professionals who require a lot of time and prevents direct professional work with users.". They'd say in a way that we don't have a foundation and we want to build a solid and stable skyscraper. It's just not possible. As an improvement, the promoter cites the example of one-time assistance and says, "The process is being shortened and there is a greater possibility of assessing professionals on the purpose and justification of assistance". Let's just try to imagine the detailed processing and professional assessment of those professional workers that the applicant himself says are buried in administrative affairs and do not have time to work with users. Furthermore, great publicity has been given the new right to be introduced by this amendment, which is the right to parent status. The surface view seems to be a major shift in relation to the parents ’ current right of children with the most severe damage. Today, they are allowed to work with half their full - time full - time after leave until the seventh year of their lives, which is not enough for a full - time child with the most severe damage. If these changes are accepted, parents will be able to achieve parent status and receive compensation for it. In that case, it must not be in a working relationship. The parent’s compensation will amount to 2 thousand kuna. This right represents the help of an unemployed parent who cannot be told about a parent who has been employed so far. According to the promoter today, a leave of up to the seventh year of a child’s life is used by 3 thousand 506 parents and work with half the full - time is accomplished by 2,000 673 parents. Based on these data, it is predicted that 13 million kunas will need to be provided for the exercise of this right. Is there a record of the number of parents of children with severe developmental disturbances that are not in employment today? Will they be able to claim the status of the parent? And if not, does these changes make discrimination between employees and the unemployed? The basic criterion for social giving must be social rather than working status. For this kind of discrimination, there is no justification or justification for the applicant who says: "The system of social care is based on the principle of subsidiarity which understands the responsibility of the individual and family for their own social security and is the role of the state to help to prevent and eliminate social threats.". Furthermore, in the light of the changes, the Proposer states that in recent years the forms of concern of an extra-institutional character have become increasingly significant. Theoretically, it might be that way, but in practical life, the story is completely different. We'll see about that. And when we discuss the law on foster care and can be based on these changes. Changes in social care as professional activities are also being introduced. Social care as a professional activity covers family home and counselling. According to the current law, a natural person in a family home who provides care services outside his own family did not have to be a professional. According to these changes, a full - time family member has to work professionally, which means establishing a working relationship. There is no detailed explanation for these changes so that it is unknown who the representative of the family home is establishing a working relationship with and who pays him and how much he pays for it. What these unknowns mean for present-day providers of this type of service, how, within which time and from which funds the family homes so far will comply with the new law. What the foster parents and representatives of family homes point to is the inequality of monetary separations per protégé, depending on where the protégé is located. For the proteges located in state institutions, compensation is double or more than the compensation for the proteges located in foster care and family homes. This data actually speaks of the state only declaring itself to promote forms of social care of an extra-institutional character. Of course we are witnessing various abuses, however, it obliges the ministry responsible for social care to organise and carry out effective surveillance so that abuse does not occur. We would still like to talk about something that we haven't found in this proposal to amend and supplement the law and belongs in the sphere of social care. According to available data, the number of drug addicts in Croatia is growing despite the national strategy, action plan and the established system of fight against addiction. Contrary to this data, the number of people treated in the therapeutic communities in Croatia is reduced. The number of treatment communities in Croatia is also decreasing, but contrary to the reduction in the number of treated and therapeutic communities, in the therapeutic communities in Croatia, the number of treatment-oriented treatment communities abroad is increasing and, according to the latest data, 51.8% higher in 2005 compared to 2004. A report on drug abuse for 2002 and 2003 pointed to a significant role of the therapeutic communities in the conduct of withdrawal, rehabilitation and social reintegration of addicts. There were then 12 treatment communities and 29 therapy houses. In 2004, there were 9 treatment communities and 29 treatment houses. Although the profession has said that they should play a key role in the resociation and withdrawal of their status is undefined then and today. This Parliament has adopted a national strategy against addiction that contains the obligation to legally regulate the therapeutic communities. It's also drawn in the action plan. The Committee on Labour, Health and Social Policy has reached conclusions that have been confirmed by the Parliament which commits itself to legal regulation of status but so far nothing has been done. The Secretary of State informed us that this issue would not be regulated by private law but by the Social Care Act. There are changes ahead of us and there is not a single word about the therapeutic communities. Obviously, the Ministry responsible for this problem in Croatia does not need the law of a regulated community that has proved to be the most successful in rehab and rehabilitation. And while our ministry is uninterested with our citizens, young people go abroad without us asking ourselves how they pass there, what they do there, and what programs they're all subject to. In combating drug abuse, associations participate in the implementation of preventive programmes, education, advisory work with young people, addicts, drug users. Members of their families, educationally promotional actions. Resociation of addicts, post-penal acceptance, as well as the reference to rehabilitation abroad. However, the number of active associations stagnates or even decreases. The total number of drug addicts whose associations provided some forms of assistance in 2005 decreased by 13% and the families by 11%. And only in one year. Some associations showed up once or twice with the program, and then they shut down. So the number of treatment communities has been reduced. There are insufficient numbers of associations as well as the number of users about them. This is a process that has been going on for several years in a row, and the number of users keeps growing year after year. The number of addicts is growing year after year, and the number of people who submit to rehab is reduced except for those who are being referred to abroad. These data should be concerned by the minister in charge of social care who avoids legally regulating the status of the therapeutic communities in which psychosocial rehabilitation and working therapy programmes of addicts are to be implemented, preparing for the return of rehabilitated addicts to society and by consulting the family of addicts. Since this is the first reading with good political will and knowledge can be removed from this failure. And precisely in this religion, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support this proposal in its first reading in the expectation that until the second reading of this remark, which has been tabled and which has been shown in the most good way possible that until the second reading they will find their solution, and of course we will decide whether or not we will support this law in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89785	Thank you very much. At 16 and 20, it's time to sign up for 10 minutes. HNS club Mr. Representative Dragutin, correction? ... I'm sorry, I didn't see it, but here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mrs. Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry that my colleague is talking about this law like this. It seems to me that she hasn't even read it at all and she's gone off the topic at some point. But I would correct her claim where she says that the social, social care system in small areas is causing a daunting and ineffectiveness. That's really untrue, and I would even ask my colleague to apologize in that lie. Ten thousand people work in a welfare centre system and work with 10 thousand 150 users in 69 state homes or for older and powerless where there are 3 thousand 689 users. So according to these employees, saying that this system is causing a daunting and ineffectiveness in the units of local self-government is something terrifying and untrue.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89787	Thank you very much. It's the club of representatives of the HNS. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89788	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First, I would like to express my satisfaction that at this late afternoon the minister is present in the debate on this law because you must admit that it is quite rare for the bills before the Parliament to explain and defend the personal minister especially when they are discussed in the afternoon. That's good. For the first time in my life, I will not discuss one law by the information I have done but rather read what experts in the welfare system have written about this bill for about 30 years on average. Noting that this proposal is the seventh amendment and the addition of the law to a wide range, and that no consolidated text of the law has been published in the meantime, which is rare when it comes to a law that regulates the rights and obligations of citizens. Namely, when it comes to laws that determine the marking of spaceships then and perhaps it is not important that we always publish after the seventh amendment the consolidated text, but the laws which determine the rights of citizens would be that maybe someone should encourage our parliamentary Committee on Law to really respect, and this, transitional final provisions, there is the authority or proposal of the Committee to publish the consolidated text of the law because those who are dealing with social care and foster care, what we will discuss in the wheel behind these are people who do not necessarily have to be lawyers in order to get in the piles of books to understand what we thought when we passed some law. And that's why reading this bill has made it difficult, Mr. Minister, because we have to use the jokes, published what your officers in the yellow press say, because when the consolidated text is published, not in "The People's News" but in some other professional publications, your government officials call it the yellow press. And it's not authentic texts, right. But it's the only way we can read it. Let's figure out what you're actually suggesting to change. The very fact that the text has not been published and that you have not proposed a new law, but that the amendments and additions for the 7th time, with a broad scope, are proof that this law will soon come again for amendments and additions. In this first reading, I will not talk about the parts of the laws that prescribe the rights of beneficiaries of social care, their obligations, nor in the procedures of the exercise of those rights, but in the system. And I'm very glad that there's a minister here, not a secretary of state or some of the other people, because it's probably going to be my debate, so what I'm going to read, and what your employees wrote, Mr. Minister, will be of use to you for better preparation and reading. First, the proposed amendments are complemented by the evaluations of professional workers and social care systems only of cosmetic nature. And as much as we try to show a thing differently proposed text doesn't lead to a simplification of the process and a reduced number of possible rights for users, it just over-explains the rights of several drawers and places them in one, or several, by calling those same rights by another name or by one aggregate name. On the other hand, this proposal does not lay down anywhere the criteria under which the working-age population should, as a prerequisite for the exercise of the right to permanent social assistance, also make its own greater contribution to getting out of the state of social protection. The proposal is not even in line with the strategy to develop a social care system, it does not relieve experts in the system from unnecessary administration, and in particular, there will be a lot of money and time only to change the proposed or the templates for a solution in which the text will come in general only minor changes. For example, more right to help accommodation in the dormitory will not be called that, but a new solution will have to be issued in order to exercise the right to permanent assistance. And all existing users will need new solutions. And how many thousands of them you know best. Important things, therefore, are not even indicated in the proposal, and therefore, the Assembly will indeed have to pass a new law again. The proposed proposal shows that no job has been initiated by the applicant to move employees from the social care system and to move them into the system in charge of implementing an active labour policy. So far, the ministry has spent considerable resources to come up with a strategy for reforming the social care system and the system's information strategy. The main strategic guidelines are long known, but none of them apply. For example. still, believe it or not, there is a unique register of social care users, there is no unique user system even though the project was created, even though it was paid not to be applied. For decades, the Ministry has not adopted a key document for the operation of the entire system, the rules on the registration and keeping of records, and therefore it happens that within one and the same system of social care, in one part of Croatia centres exercise one right in the material costs of business, and in other parts significantly lower. Because the rulebook that was supposed to be passed 10 years ago hasn't been passed yet. Especially at the time of the decentralised funds from which these costs are covered. The question arises why a single system is avoided. In addition to all the above, the question of the General Administrative Procedure Act should certainly be mentioned when, as a special law, it does not wish to resolve the problem. In fact, experts warn that there are already too many rights of users of social care that obstruct the general administrative process or by the lack of requested documents and data or by providing incorrect data. Social care professionals are not able to ensure that, due to too little number and too much work, they all state that they are self-checking, and when they find that the social care user has failed the data, they deny the change in data affecting the acquisition of rights or the height of those rights, the only thing they can do is file a complaint for a violation. And the fine that was prevented is 5 kuna. And that's probably why in the state budget we never provide enough money to those who have real needs, because there are too many of those, and the employees of Mr. Ministers who work with you warn that too many of those who provide false data, incomplete data, who do not report a change of condition and continue to exercise rights from the social care system, and that the whole system is helpless. If the total income of the family, which is the proposal, is excluded from the child's allowance, which is good, experts warn that the total income of the family should then be excluded or excluded and the amount of the funds provided by social care centres based on Article 352. Family law. Because the purpose of these funds is the same as the purpose of the child's allowance. If we rule out only a child's allowance and not this, we'll have an inequality in determining the heights of the social limit. It's family law. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The social care law regulates the right of the ministry, hence the state to require the reimbursement of amounts received on behalf of support for maintenance and permanent accommodation in the event of death only for legal holders of the maintenance of the deceased. So parents, children, and mates. Experts warn that there are too many cases in which the state from social resources is caring and helping and providing life-long care for the people who have done so, who did not have legal abstentions behind them, but after their death, heirs who claim to inherit and the Centre for Social Care or the State, regardless of the property record, cannot and no case has so far been able to achieve the right to settle these costs because the judgments of the courts and them have recognised the right of inheritance without obligation to settle the costs of the state for social care. If, therefore, after the death of the beneficiary of life support, heirs who are entitled to real estate appear and are not in the category prescribed by the State to care for those same users and now your people warn of the indetermination of these regulations. I want to believe that by the second reading that part of the law will be completed, or that you will agree with the Minister of Justice to amend the other laws. In particular, it is a matter of having the property available. Today, the state is the owner of several tens of thousands of family homes where there is either property rights or not being put into operation, which stand empty without any use, which even often cost the local community to maintain, clean up the environment, and often the problem, is often the problem of harming the environment, and that part of the law should also be done to ensure that the properties given in the note and owned do not stand as dead capital. If there are only a thousand such facilities in Croatia, it is about money from which 10 thousand new social care users could be alimated. This is therefore not my personal remarks, nor the objections of the Croatian People's Party club, but the experts who have been employed in this sector for 30 years, who wanted to give these same remarks to the minister, but within the ministry's system there was no such debate and could not do so, so they asked me to pass it on to the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89789	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first representative of Ms. Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89790	Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd say at first, although other opinions have appeared here, but I can say quite responsibly because I've been involved in the welfare system for about 30 years now, that we have a well-achieved welfare system. If that's the case, I'll just give some examples. When our parents visited Lithuania and Latvia as part of this programme of social care reform, they went there to see how they had been through the reform. And to our satisfaction, they were very surprised there. They said that we were far, far ahead of them and that we couldn't actually learn anything from them, but that they needed to learn from us. When we had an external consultant for English, it seems to me that we were assessing our system of stationary social protection system, then he was also pleasantly surprised at what level it was all expensive with us. Then, that our employees working in the social care system have received European Congress organisations, social care workers, this shows that they are doing their job responsibly and that individual shortcomings or possible failures, and in such a sensitive system there can certainly be unwanted consequences, and it cannot be concluded that the system does not work, that they are bunkers that are closed, inaccessible and that it is in the woods of regulations and so expensive because I know these people who do their job completely responsible. Although this is the case, Croatia stands out 4% of its gross social product for various types of social care, according to the former World Bank president for our area, it is said if we were to single out 0.7% of gross social product so that there should be no poverty in Croatia. So the thing is, that money's being deployed. That this ministry, before correcting the incorrect quote, I have said some data, introduces one constant and one responsible policy towards this portfolio, yet I will repeat it once again because the data really deserve it. That 446 new employees were employed from 2004 to 2007. We know that it was almost unimaginable to hire a new employee at one of the centers. That out of these 446 of them 138 were very busy professionals in welfare centres, but that they were also employed in these institutions where the worst situations were so far, when it came to homes for mentally and physically damaged persons, them 198, that cars were purchased as I said for the personal needs of workers, professional workers, but also vans for others were accepted 150 volunteer trainees, then here are the support and civil associations. Then she would also point out when it comes only to the parish that in the organization, cooperation with the Red Cross is children who were in foster families that were paid for vacation. It is not only in Županja, it is paid here and data is presented elsewhere in Zagreb and other areas. So a lot has been done, but in the current social care system. That I must once again say the World Bank loan in which the Republic of Croatia invests 14m euros. It is not small money to improve the structure, build 13 new social care centres, restore 13 existing ones, but also restore 57 social care homes, means improve the conditions in them. But here some colleagues said before me, and I would agree that there are certain and there are also shortcomings that we certainly can't say that these are the shortcomings of employees who work there, but the shortcomings are generally in one system and I would say in a society that behaves like that. What we must admit was that these fees were low, however, and in some cases they were insufficient to cross the poverty line. But also, given that we had compensations at various levels from local, regional or regional self-government to various civil society associations to the state level, then some who were in this well-reaching then managed to acquire benefits that were far greater than the line of poverty and that is certainly what we want to avoid. Here's the information that's actually ours, even 50% of the fees that are being paid not to hit the poorest. This is certainly not acceptable and it is precisely the tendency of this law to simplify the procedure and to be rational and to prevent it. Then users can really become dependent on fees. I often meet some young people who say, so listen, I get you a thousand, a thousand and a half kuna, and I can't live on it, and I don't think there's any other way and I could get the money myself. And here, already and now we meet with many professions, not with highly educated people, but with occupations means medium professional equipment or possibly some education that could be done... And that we can't find anyone interested in it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then the question is, literally, people told us, so as long as they get such a nice hand and a hat, why would they do it? Therefore, the aim of this law is certain that such a situation does not exist. And the data is also presented so that our users don't actually give anything back. I personally think that one part, at least one part of those fees, should be done either in humanitarian work, be socially useful work, and I think that this would eliminate those who are possibly employed in black or who do not need that fee, and in such a way might be able to resolve such issues. Now I would refer only to this Social Services Act. It is said here that no discussion has been held among the professionals and that it is not possible for them to make their objections which is not true, my parents at the Social Care Centre told me that they were at such a consultation and they gave me some of their remarks which I can say were not something special to point out some of the shortcomings of this law. Perhaps I should start with some articles that seem particularly important to me, here we have seen that article 32 has the particular importance of gaining parent status and that this fee of 2 thousand kuna plus contribution, and so, I think that this is for our terms might be said that it could possibly be appropriate. But here in this article, paragraph 3, I would warn of one, express my opinion that it is actually to recognise the status of one of the parents because of the severity of the harm and the disease of the child where its care is not possible to ensure that it is included in the programme of residence. I don't think it should be conditioned that it has to be secured, so if it's not ensured that this parent status can then be applied, but since it's both more humane and cheaper to keep such persons in the family, I think they should be left to both decisions and parents, as well as welfare centres. It certainly is very important for those users, children who had permanent accommodation to be given financial monthly support when it comes to studying. Here it has been mentioned and highlighted as a great contribution that eight students have succeeded so during the past years so... This is now one systematic solution that will be made possible by all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also consider this to simplify these fees when it comes to one-time assistance either to work for the birth of a child, schooling, sickness, death and everything else, that they can be in money and nature, and that they are proposed. I think it's a simplified procedure now. Of course, it is good, but it must also be careful with such a way that there are no abuses. I also consider Article 77i important. where workers and professional workers of the Centre for Social Care consult in all difficult cases and difficulties related to illness, age, death of family members, child rearing, disability, involvement in everyday life and that this counseling and assistance relates both to household management and to the availability of money, organised learning of children. So, one truly comprehensive help and counselling, which certainly is very important. Now, the only challenge is whether the experts of the welfare center will succeed, regardless of what we've done to increase them, and probably still there are, they're missing. Whether they will succeed in all this, perhaps some associations of civil society could be involved in this as well as the issue of patronage, they have also warned me that in such cases it would be good to involve other civil society associations to carry out such species of assistance, that professional workers may not be enough to do so. I'd still say they warned me about... that these solutions, when it comes to just, let's just say, are related to the amount of fees and years of age, always have to issue solutions, these are so many piles of solutions that this could be solved with a payoff and that it could be very favourable for them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, this law will certainly bring a lot of rationality and convenience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89791	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89792	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, a colleague has said she is systematically being dealt with for users of permanent accommodation who enroll in the study as regular students. I'm afraid this solution is not a systematic solution, because dear colleagues if they look at a person who is a user of permanent accommodation at the time of going to a regular study she gets monthly financial support at the level of a quadruple amount basically that is a thousand and 600 kuna but has to look for other accommodations. That the law says that then we want a society of knowledge, we want people of lower social classes to become students, get knowledge and rise up in all this. I am now asking myself and you and the Minister with a thousand thousand kuna how this young person will, when he goes to regular study, pay for the accommodations. That person would think something to eat for a month, you should buy books. Because it says here that I can get here if that's the 20% criterion for personal needs and once more aid once or how many times a year. I'm asking you how it's going to be financed by this person who should get dressed, buy textbooks and everything else, and then why it doesn't say in that law that such a person has the right to a state grant or a state loan because his credit has no one to vouch for but the only state in that case. And why isn't there under special conditions the right to stay in a dorm that's state-owned? Then it's something that's systematic. This way we push care of ourselves, say yes, we made it possible. And how he's going to survive with a thousand $600, that's another story. Why doesn't that base connect to the average salary of this hour? I have noted since 2001 the base has not been increased. What are the reasons and we boast that our budget was 15% higher, that this year's tax revenues seem to be 15 percent more, there's no reason why the minister, together with the government and the finance minister, can't work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89793	Thank you. Mrs. Lelic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89794	Well, pal, surely a thousand and 600 kunas plus this extra, which is not enough for one easy life, but it still represents one solid foundation. And I don't think that all of these students who get involved in this way are excluded from all of those procedures and for accommodation in student homes and for loans and scholarships on other grounds and who work hard to make use of that, too. But this is one important and positive step. Why hasn't the base been changed? Well, you see, in my presentation, I said that we're extracting 4% of gross social product, that that's more than Austria, Germany, Italy, Hungary and Poland, but obviously we haven't been able to aim enough. That's the reason, and this resourcefulness, as we say, we know how to do it, and here, we didn't have enough connection, information processing, and that's why we didn't hit the poorest. But the funds we've allocated must have been allocated enough. That's what they tell us in the end, experts who can see it all on the side and better, that with 0.7% of gross social product, they shouldn't have poverty, and we stand out 4%. So more than these other undeveloped countries, and we still have those who are poor. And because of this, it is precisely this law that will succeed in introducing order, making the system more rational, accessible, and in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89795	Thank you. It's Mrs. Vesna Skara Ozbolt's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89796	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I personally expected a new law, a completely new Law on Social Care, complete, clear and comprehensive. However, we have received amendments and additions to the law, the existing Law on Social Welfare. In principle, I welcome the adoption of some proposals in these amendments and additions, because they still bring quality newspapers into social care policy. Rights are rationalised, the proposal for a new basis is set, new categories of users are introduced, new rights are introduced. But I don't think that's enough. I have 2005 data showing that the number of social care users has grown significantly. Turns out social policy is stronger than economic policy in this country, growing faster. In 2001, the users of social care were 310 thousand 254. In 2005, Croatia had 401 thousand 574 social care users. So nearly 100,000 people are more on welfare in this country. I'd be very interested to know that I don't have it, how many social care users are there today in this year or 2006? And how much did that number increase? When you look at services, not users, but social care services in 2005 you can see that it was all used by 750 thousand 428 services. It is evident from the data that one user over the year has repeatedly been provided with social care services. And now the issue of social security control, the question of review, supervision is again being raised? The law, in that sense, has quite an appointment. What is also to notice is that there is no single register of recipients of social services. I think that's a serious problem. How do you control it all? So the big problem is the lack of an integrated information system of automatic data exchanges, social work centres, ties with the ministry. And, of course, data verification controls. It seems to me that a lot of time is spent on a large part of this administrative work done by professional workers instead of doing that professional part of the job and working directly with users instead of dealing with these administrative matters. So it seems to me that this work on social care needs to be further designed and fully and fully informed. My serious second remark refers to that first sentence I said, which is that we needed a whole law. This amount of alterations and additions I think is the sixth in a row. It's already been so common. Just like that. This amendment of the law changes half the law. And it's a questionable rule of law. Woe to those who should apply the law, let alone those to whom the law applies. So that's exactly what I'm suggesting. Bringing in a comprehensive law and dictating all these changes to change. What I definitely welcome is the orientation that is visible in the law to open more and more space outside institutional forms of concern. This is acknowledged by both trend and trend in the European Union and it is not bad that we accept such trends. But I'm sorry we're only doing it at the end of the term. Here, the law separates the foster parents into a special law. But unfortunately, the law has so many anomalies, we will discuss it a little later to ask the question whether the government has accepted and indeed honestly this outside the institutional form of resolving social issues? As part of the development project of the social care system, including this further decentralisation and transfer of powers to units of regional and regional self-government. It has already been said and it seems to me that this is better, more efficient and accessible to citizens, more systematic incentives and financial support for the activities of NGOs and humanitarian organisations, better focus on money compensation, respecting the specificity of certain areas, respecting the needs and interests of users, quality information on social rights. And it's all good. I personally and personally welcome the right to the status of the parent. Too bad the impression is a bad one just because it seems that in the end the government has given in just because of the public pressure. But I think that this law still needs to put what is not put in place, and since it is, I am going back to the number of users who seem to be getting bigger and bigger I think we should make a thorough reorganization of the welfare center. That we should introduce work in two shifts. Not only hire new people, but also bring work into two shifts. It's supposed to be day-to-day field work. The number of professionals, social workers, defectologists, lawyers, psychologists should be increased. It is necessary to continuously educate all profiles of experts using these new methods of work, using world and European experiences. I think it should be put on, and I suggest improving the code, improving the lives and work of children and youth with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities. This law should have, supplement the law in order to improve the rules just as they regulate the provisions on child restraint in the event of divorce. Since children with developmental difficulties have significantly greater needs than other children and require greater involvement of parents with whom they live, this makes their material situation difficult and instructs them to determine the amounts of restraints in view of the health condition and the chronological age, as well as adults with disabilities that parents are obliged to maintain. It is necessary to equalise other people's assistance and care for all categories of disability. For mothers to determine the status of nurse for all categories of children with developmental difficulties in order to achieve all labour rights. It should encourage the establishment of clubs for children with developmental difficulties, various damages in parent associations as an extra-institutional form of care. All of these are suggestions that I think should be put in and repeated. This is, this is just a change of pace, and we need a whole new system law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89797	Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89798	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have yet another amendment to the Social Care Act because social care reform as well as health care is always slow, gradual, and its primary goal is not to endanger what has been achieved. That is why it is good to go through these changes and I am sure that the Ministry is preparing after adopting these amendments and one consolidated text. Therefore, the new Social Care Act could be the sum of all the changes so far, but the big steps here do not bear the risk of being a very sensitive area. However, it must be said that since the start of the term of office, the ministry has been making major reorganisational steps. I will just say that at this point in terms of various forms of social care not only in a narrow sense, but also from both the state register and the county and local and so on, Croatia stands out nearly 4% of gross national income and falls to the top of the European scale. The other thing is how rational it is. The social care system includes such a large number of people and meets such a large number of needs that it is difficult to carry out one control that would be perfect. What the Ministry found in 2003 was really going to say a big part of the mess. It's not just a mess accumulated in one term. It's a mess that's been accumulated for years, and in wartime, there wasn't even time to make some big cuts. So I'm just going to list a few things that aren't in the welfare system yet until the end of the day, but the Ministry's taking that scar very seriously. For example, unlike health institutions in social institutions, the concept of standards has not yet been identified. So in health institutions we have standardised services, especially their prices, and now we are working on a very precise definition of their quality. In social care services are not standardised, prices are not standardised. Services are different quality, different expertise, and prices of the same services are very, very different. This, of course, leads to ineffectiveness. It's a huge system. Let's just remind ourselves. So it's a large number of welfare centers, 80 with 25 branches. It's about social care homes that have 69 with over 10,000 state-owned and non-state-owned users. It's a very complex structure of employees. I would like to remind here that the social care centres represent 66% of the total number of employees. They're social workers, psychologists, defecologists and so on. However, it is worrying that 22% of employees represent accounting-administrative workers in social care homes. Even 22% more than one fifth are those who work in administration and accounting. And unlike that, in social care homes, that's only 5%. So there is obviously room for rationalisation and much more efficient spending of money invested in social care. It should also be mentioned here that we have also found a major World Bank project which, in its first form of the realisation proposal, has been extremely unrealistic and ineffective. In this project, various higher education institutions were planned, and we already have enough in the education system. Then different large projects and state studies and we already know them. Different investment projects in paper documentation without any efficiency. The Ministry changed the project and I think it translated it into something very useful and has already produced good results. It turned it into a project whose main task is a concrete investment. On the one hand, in the organisation, on the other hand, in the computerisation of the system control and in the third investment in the security of social care users. What condition we have found in the homes of social care, which is also not the result of one term, but the cumulation of many decades. Let us only remember the tragedy in the home "Stančić" in which several protégés died after which we found it and it was recorded in previous inspections that hygienic-sanitary nodes and kitchens were below the level of hygiene minimum. For example, in the kitchen, rust on the pipes was over two inches thick, sheets of peeled paint were hanging on the ceiling, and there were about 2 fingers of old latrines that could neither be scraped nor removed. The World Bank project for the security of home-protectors in the reorganization and repair and reconstruction of sanitary knots and kitchens has spent a great deal of money and over 70 homes have received new sanitary knots, which, of course, has increased the safety of residents. That's why this system needs to be understood very complexly. There are countless problems in it. I'd just like to remind you of the number of users of different services, just for a short period of time. For example. support for maintenance gets about 120,000 users annually. One-time help somewhere between 40,000 and 44 thousand users. An extra for help and care 15 grand a year. I'm talking approximate numbers because it changes from year to year. Training for an independent life of five and a half thousand. Help for personal needs of users of permanent accommodation 12 and a half thousand users. Right parents of children with severe developmental disorder 6 thousand 400. Accommodation of the foster family 6 grand. And so on and so forth. The cost of housing is over 15,000 people. So it's big numbers, and each of them is a great human destiny. Therefore, the reorganisation should be very careful. And that's why I welcome this kind of reorganisation that goes one step at a time, not one that would make some kind of revolution. And it's true what my colleague Scare Ozbolt said. The number from year to year of users grows by rate from 4 to 6%. At some age and 10%. And he's moving over 280 thousand people today or somewhere around 6, about, don't take me for a word, somewhere around 6% of the population are users of different forms of social care. So it's a system of gigantic proportions by numbers and capacity, and even bigger by the fates it solves. That's why I think that this step ahead of us, too, is the amendment and addition of the Social Care Act is a very valuable step because it solves a few big things. Of course, those are big things for the one who uses those services. Maybe not for the one looking at it on the side. The first thing to be commended is to simplify the procedures in achieving the benefits of all services, as this will likely gradually reduce the ratio of 22% of administrative staff at the expense of increasing the number of professional staff. The right of parents to the status of carers, to speak to children, parents of children with special needs, especially severe developmental disturbances, is the biggest social step of one country and cannot be praised by all states. In other words, such a parent will receive employment status, he will be employed in his home and receive gross wages, so that he pays with all the contributions that he can be with his child, and so far he could only do so until the 7th year of life. Ensuring accommodation outside institutions is also a modern step and this law is supported. Professional assistance in the family, therefore from the Centre for Social Care, is also an important step in the establishment of the Professional Chamber, which will allow for the importance and rapid progress of the profession of all those who work in social care. So when we see those steps that they're not small, they're high enough and I don't think they're jeopardizing the system, they're giving it a new quality, they're giving it a new vision of modernization of the social system with rationalization, but not at the heart of the protégé and those who have needs. So that's why the law needs to be supported. And recommend issuing one consolidated text so that all users in one place can see what they can and can realize. Do you go into major reorganisational steps? Maybe one day when the system will be even more deinstitutionalized and even more decentralised. For now, I welcome these steps, and I suggest that we uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89799	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89800	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I agree with all the predecessors who said that this is a very complex area and that it would be better and better, and I believe that we share the pleasure, would share the satisfaction of all of you, and that instead of this 6th in a row of amendments and additions to the Social Care Act we have received one whole, consistent, above all fair and socially sensitive law than this amendment and addition that we now have. However, I personally support the amendments and this law, which I also consider to be cosmetics and that they only partially mitigate problems in this very complex and complex area. And I will in my debate touch life's problems, maybe talk about this law in a different way. But before that, of course, it is good that these changes that are going to make it easier for users of services above all else, and also to those who have verticalized social welfare make it easier by uniting the rights only to apply these rights and to make it easier for these here are the 6th amendments and the addition of the law. We have heard from both the minister and my predecessors that this government, and also this law, that the government is constant and responsible, that this law reflects full social sensitivity or that they systematically solve almost all life problems related to those who are users of these services. I will, for example, try to show children in children’s homes what it looks like in practice. In spite of the fact that this is the 6th change in this population, almost nothing is said. And this population is still left on the margins, and we also know that children without adequate parental care or without parental care are the most vulnerable children or the most incompetent to stand alone for a quality, especially a man worth living, worthy of 21st century. Why do I say that? Well, here you are, and especially former Minister Hebrang, and you, Mr. Minister, have been looking for funds to build a dislocated housing unit for children in a home in Slavonski dom. And despite Mr. Hebrang's strong promise that we'll be solving this problem by buying two apartments for the needs of these children, it happened in that old rabbit's river and vice versa. We have launched an action at the level of Brod-Posavina County and thanks to a large number of people of good will broad heart, and above all, we have built a beautiful multi-state facility in which of the 6 apartments 4 is fully decorated. It's about every 75 square-square apartment in which at the moment it's possible to accommodate sixteen children. But at this point, all three children found happiness in that house of lucky bricks as we called it. Why is that? It simply makes it impossible for children to find happiness in these or similar facilities in Croatia after they were 18 years of age and completed secondary schools, and fortunately several cities have only bought, the City of Zagreb, Koprivnica, not to list further, just bought apartments and placed them in the function of homes, i.e. children. We're investigating reasons, and I personally came up with the following data. With all due respect to the children's wards, I'll try not to talk about their names. One girl now 19 and a half years old was born in December of '87. The year, '98. Her mother died in '98. the year for the 11th birthday is located at the Home for Children in Slavonski Brod and since '98. He spends all his time in the Children's House by 2005. It ends in high school and two days before the 18th birthday of the competent Social Care Centre, I quote that she stopped caring outside her own family by accommodation in the House for Children Slavonski Brod, as well as assistance for personal needs, on the grounds that she had been appointed in 17.12.2005, that she had completed her regular schooling and that given the circumstances that they had obtained the conditions to return to her own family, the reasons for recognising the right to care outside her own family and the assistance for personal needs cease. So it's the 18th birthday, that kid gets a solution like this. Despite the fact that in a dislocated residential unit owned by the ministry, it is the same home for children that has 14 seats, or 14 empty beds with all the necessary equipment, and just to note, we have fully equipped these apartments so that no spoons are needed to be brought on the side. Out of bed linen, kitchen, I'd say to everyone in this civilization time the necessary elements that I can live on my own. The young lady referred to this solution and on 7 May this year she received a second-degree solution signed by Mr. Minister, which says among other things the following refuses to appeal against the Social Care Centre's solution as unfounded, because, let me repeat this, this young lady finished her secondary education, she obtained a call for the tailor, on 17 December 2005, she became a minor, that she was registered to the Croatian Employment Service on 27 March 2006, and that there are conditions for her return to her own family. The family she left 7 years ago is located in a village on the periphery and of course it is not possible to live and work there, and in particular find quality life and employment in the business... Another example is also one young man who was born also in '87. A year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He spent four years at home, finished high school, and in 30.6.2006 he received a solution also from the Centre to stop his status because he also became a minor, he graduated from high school, and his parents were given a damaged family home owned by APN and he entered the university and could not consume the right to accommodation in either home or in that dislocated housing unit. You see, Mr. Minister, for these reasons, I darelessly claim that here the only constant of all this time is social insensitivity towards these children. In the proposed amendments and additions to the law, and this has been said by my colleague Korenik a number of times, it is possible for these children and every other child to scholarship from 1,000 kuna per month, but at the same time their right to stay in a home. As time runs out, I expect until the second reading that the quality of this area will be solved, we have a series of suggestions on how to improve it. First of all, where there are conditions, where there are dislocated housing units to allow them to stay in their homes unless there are dislocated units and give them an advantage in other cases in student homes. We also expect that the base will be raised or it has not been raised since 2001 400 kuna, and that means 80 kuna per month to these children in the home is a data that really speaks for itself everything. Something that Croatia must not afford, no matter how poor it is, and I appeal to you to change a lot of things in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89801	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89802	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I am sorry that there is no former minister in charge of social policy, Mr. Hebrang here because I have been stopped by replicas holding that in fact one whole, one whole exposure would be too little to correct the inaccuracy of what he was saying, but in any case his exposure, therefore not as an ordinary representative, but as a man who's two years seemed to be led by a resistor, and then what has been given here in the very proposal of this Law suggests something that I would never want to see as an insult to my colleagues, points to a really great confusion and confusion in the heads of people who are politically responsible to ensure the professional work and professional thinking of social policy in this country. I didn't drink the whole mind of the world or consider myself the most competent man in this country to talk about this problem. But unlike my colleagues, it seems to me, to an incomparably greater extent, I listened to those who were too high, reasoned and systematic about social policy could talk. This law we have here in front of us is a white witness to this absence of a concept of social policy in this country. And the fact that we've broken down and we're the only European country that doesn't have the Ministry of Social Affairs or social well-being tells us about how chaotic knowledge or knowledge is about what can and should be done in such an important area. The social policy in us is unfortunately seen as an area of political, volunteering for voters where, through the award of certain social rights, privileges, the privilege wants to collect some political points. And it's not understood as space I'd say, perhaps even the most humane social activity of organized communities. Let me not stay on this general evaluation without argumenting it, just a few formulations from our proposed law and what I keep extremely problematic. First. It is unclear in the first sentence itself when it comes to the assessment of the state of affairs that the provision of social care at the state level is currently concentrated on the Ministry of Health and Social Care. It's a completely vague formulation. It's a completely vague formulation. Rather, it could be said that this ministry is in charge, responsible for the functioning of the social care system carried out through a network of centres and homes of social care. It says social care is being achieved through the social care centre network and social care homes, relief and care centres. It could be said that some or if you want most social care services are provided through centers and homes. But according to the principle of subsidiarity that is called before here, it is said that social care is not achieved exclusively through them, but through cities and municipalities, the county and many other social care holders, that through it involves the civil sector, natural persons, etc. You might agree that it is far too small in terms of what would be desirable and what is a practice I would say to modern and organised societies, but it is somewhat practice. Here it is said that some of the formulations are given based on the analysis we conducted in 2002, so it is said that social care centres and branches perform over 146 functions that can be shared etc. Namely, the social care system offers a wide range of rights that can be divided into monetary giving and services, it says here, but also monetary donations are a kind of service. It would be necessary to specify which services these services refer to here. Or, it is also said in the opening section that it is precisely for the purpose of further improvement outside the institutional forms of care for prevention, to pass the Household Act. Although it is not the subject of this law, it should nevertheless be said here that the proposal for a new Household Act can be difficult in any way, that this law can be linked to an improvement beyond institutional care, since the law has given up any significant newspapers that would make the adoption process more quality. From what? It has given up the possibility of recognising the right of employment for foster parents, giving up the introduction of the foster care agency, no quality selection procedure for foster parents and foster parents, a very dubious system of education and supervisory supervision of foster parents, etc. So, Mr. Minister! It would be very good to hear, a clear indication of what you, as a proposing, mean under social care reform. Since the last four years of this plan have not been done anything but a verbal push for change under... I quote: "... the system of social care..." or as the latest minister Ljubicic says, introducing a system of social care according to man. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's really for four screamers. Therefore, the formulation given in the text is said to include further decentralisation and delegation of powers to the units of the regional administration, etc., to make it more accessible, more effective, a system of fostering financial support. This makes, watch out, this makes the first step in creating a new and more rational, more efficient social care system aimed at socially vulnerable citizens or socially sensitive groups that would be fully in line with the criteria and standards in force in the countries of the European Union. Besides this last sentence, you know who wrote it and when it was written? Well, it was written in 2002, Mr. Minister, they set you up. That's what we wrote in 2002. So the question arises, if it was known to be such a condition, I certainly agree that it is, unfortunately, and still is, and what has been waiting for five years? If you want, I ask... The last year of office, but for your four gentlemen, nothing in that sense has been done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this formulation of European harmonisation. Social care, social policy, these are specific national projects. It can hardly be standardised in this sense as you can traffic real estate I don't know, or something else. Uniting social assistance. I see the lights are on, so let me say it. 17 different rights. And now we're going to make a big revolution and we're going to sum it up at 7:00. Well, that's not the problem, Mr. Minister. First, there's something you need to know. There's something she needs to know. Those who wrote that to you missed telling you. In the right sense of social aid is only six rights of those seventeen, only six. Support for maintenance, assistance for settlement of housing costs, one-time assistance, food aid, clothing and shoes, settlement of funeral costs and all other types of rights relating to disabled persons, elderly, powerless, mentally ill, etc. It's a completely different story, it has nothing to do with what we're talking about here. New rights, and I thought you should be commended here even if the whole story was initiated by one "24 hours" list, but here the question is now, of course I mean this right of recognition of parenting status. The first question by which criteria we will determine the degree and type of difficulty in the development of a child whose parent will receive the status of carers. Now the minister will say so we'll write a new rules of art. How long will it take for that rule to be written, like these rules were supposed to be? Years will pass, it is certain that there will be very restrictive behaviour of the body of art, this status will be recognised in very exceptional cases of the most severe damage and only when the parent is qualified to provide medical care to his child. Who will be in charge, under which criteria and conditions for issuing a parental training certificate to provide care to their child, we do not know that either. So I can conclude that there is no clear and good intentions but here I am interrupted by time, unfortunately I cannot tell you my observations but I can deliver them on professional chambers and on the consequences you said would result from the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89803	Thank you. Honored representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go. ... And the rectification of the quote is? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you are, the esteemed representative of Ruža Lelic, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89804	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, counterpart Vidovic gave a really typical demagogue one speech in which he gave a series of lies. He said nothing was done except verbal support. If not all the data that speak, the specific data that says it has been done then I do not know what kind of verbal support it is, that 446 new workers have been employed, that 150 trainees have been admitted, that they are employed in associations with disabilities of 65 professionals in 2005, 2006, that 13 new social care centres are under way or planned, that thirteen are renewed, that 57 social care institutions, housing institutions of social care to improve the conditions. I don't know if those aren't concrete indicators then I don't really know what it is with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89805	Dear representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89806	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm 46 years old, or I look 35. So it's not really a condition. Otherwise, this was the answer perhaps to a non-legislative colleague named Lalic. Reading the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act, I was most interested in the part that regulates parent status. Of course, I welcome the introduction of the possibility of foster parents but unfortunately in contact with parent and child associations with developmental difficulties is better than nothing. In this case, the state has turned back into a charity dealer. Again, there is a right to care for those who need to be cared for, and these are persons with disabilities in this case between nothing and real care, she gave crumbs. Did those crumbs stay from the Sports Act that wrote off debts to big football clubs? Are these the crumbs that have remained from the missed candidacy and promotions for the European Football Championship? Are those crumbs left over from overrated highway shares? Are those the crumbs the state picked up under the tycoon tables after the crazy privatisation? Parents are valued by their own love for their children. I have often heard from my colleagues that they are so and so with their children and that nothing can replace parental love when children with difficulties. I agree, but unfortunately, we live in a very material world, and these parents, besides great love, also have great material costs. I think there's a salary fee planned. Why does the fee pay if it's a very small profession? The minimum basis is laid down for both the job of the custodian and the future pension incomes which, according to the proposal to amend the law on the basis of the payment of contributions. The pay compensation itself is extremely low if we compare it to the cost of accommodation paid by the state in social care homes, which is three to four times higher. We also estimate that the number of children or persons belonging to the category with the most difficult disability for which it is not possible to find a solution of living in some of the living centres is not large and that it is not a significant financial expenditure. Otherwise, Mr. Minister, the minimum cost of care and care for a disabled child is about 7 thousand kuna per month if it is located in the family. I'm going back to the beginning of my debate and I'm wondering why crumbs, and why little, and why run "better anything than nothing", why humiliate parents. For unemployed parents, this will come as a lifesaving solution. What about working parents? It would also be good if this bill of law, or the introduction of a parent’s institute, was extended to other family members. Often in families, not only does one child experience developmental difficulties because if it comes to genetic diseases, we will encounter cases with two or more difficult moving or immobilized children. This is where we abolished our parents' right to choose. We gave them the opportunity to stay with them 24 hours 365 days a year with the love they feel for their child or to put them in an institution with the fact that if they choose to stay with their child, they get 2,000 kuna and the institution over 10,000 kuna. We automatically restrict parents in their professional development and work as a realisation of one of the basic human rights if the child has adequate care. Unfortunately, with this we will create a new social category that will be "happy" with 2,000 kuna a month because they have so far had nothing. We will make an easy blackmail on our parents and call on romantic stories about unlimited parental love and call ourselves socially sensitive and boast about how we solve the problems of parents with the greatest difficulty in development. You should live every day and do it in quality. And finally, one story from my neighborhood. Imagine you're a father or mother of two eight and eighteen years old. You love your children and you don't want to put them in any institution no matter how hard it is for you. You're busy, getting up in the morning at four o'clock to get everything done. Those kids don't walk, they don't talk, they don't laugh. You've adapted them to all the conditions in the house. Every day you go to work, your wife in the morning, your husband in the afternoon. You come home from work to feed your children, change and so on every day. You're both a parent and a nurse and a nurse. You and your marriage partner haven't gone out together, you haven't gone on vacation, you don't go to weddings, baptisms, funerals. You're even afraid to go to the neighborhood for coffee so the kids don't get hurt. Kids grow up, you're older and tired and you don't have the physical strength to take care of children anymore. And you're only 42 years old. Mr. Minister, are you ready to replace these parents for just a month and do exactly what I've counted for two thousand kunas. I don't include love here.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89807	Dear representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89808	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I think that we should talk about these issues of social care in this way just as colleagues of Gavran and now colleagues of Škulić have set the example. Because it's really about families. I will make an example out of my family, out of my surroundings of a child with difficulty, more difficult difficulties. A kid who's 19 and has cerebral palsy. There are many such families in Croatia today. In this regard, speaking within and outside the family is good to truly recognize the right to the status of parents and carers. I would only be very short perhaps to this where Vesna has gone somewhere and added that, as it is possible to care, towards Croatian military disabled people to extend this right to members of other families. So do you to another family member in terms of grandparents or children because it is simply not good and parents professionally in some way brake in their development if there is another member of the family who passes an education that can also be as good as in this sense the carer. Secondly, I think you should consider introducing a new right and I'm making it a suggestion in this first reading. This is a matter of introducing concerns in their own family as regards mostly older people and older couples who, for various reasons, are or cannot be placed in social care homes because there are simply no places there for them, and they need 24-hour care from another person. I have also received an example here of such a couple suffering from progressive muscle dystrophy that cannot be placed in a home and does not receive any compensation for caring within their own family. So somewhere expanding, expanding actually in some way this right to adults, to adults. Secondly, two places in the law mention the psychosocial rehabilitation of this entire day's stay and help care in the house. I would ask that this spread with the concept of physical therapy or at least in that part of the range of physical therapy that can be conducted in the house. It is precisely those who have associated developmental disorders, so they need not only psychosocial help but also physical therapy. So that this spreads in these two rights. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the So that parents who will receive compensation as parents raisers to this, their salary will be paid or paid and contributions and on and out of wages and thus will not be repeated what Mr. Minister is doing with the compensation that parents receive for these 4 hours, which the fee pays for 4, for half the working time they receive through the Social Care Centre. It was already here in the debate that such parents are now 2673 in the Republic of Croatia. With you and Mrs. Kosor, I have been texting over 3 years on issues that parents who have the right to work, half the working hours on the second half of the salary paid to them through the social care centre are not being paid off. And then you finally answered me in January this year that this error was due to an illegal pattern that was created by the basis of the regulations and the basis that was then calculated in the centers you contributed. And then you said you were going to build a working group to change that illegal rule or form that was illegally released from the legal code so that parents who have the right to pay these half wages for these four hours who, according to this law, get really and then have paid all the contributions they need. The parents’ first lawsuits for failure to pay that part of the income they had the right to receive under the law are already being filed. I am asking you somewhere, Mr. Minister, to place this formulation you put in article 75 as a payment fee for the care of the parent's parents and to pay the salary for these four hours paid on the basis of this second right of work for half the time. And then they'd avoid all your working groups that have been doing nothing for months because for three years we've been texting about this problem, and we'd just sort of rush at least one part of the lawsuits that have been filed against the state and that will certainly cost this country a lot of money, given that, for years, they don't get paid the rights to which they have. And then I ask you when, we spoke here less than a year ago about exercising rights with persons with disabilities, here in this law we call upon this right and that it is used in practice, that it is in practice good. What in practice is not properly meant because of the pattern you made in your Ministry to facilitate their calculation and calculation. So I ask you, in the second reading of such a formulation, to change this article of the law, as you have put it here at the expense of a parent’s salary, and to answer me now what is more, has this working group changed that form or regulation or not, because already more, it has been more than 7 months since you formed the commission to create some form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89809	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89810	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. With this, i.e. in the announcement of an amendment to the Social Care Act, as counterpart Opačić said, speaking on behalf of the Club, but also other colleagues, we expected a more comprehensive amendment to the Social Care Act. Often, government and individual members of the Government, when they represent the law or propose here certain laws from their portfolio, like to provide the approval of certain associations in support of their proposal. Of course, at the same time, critical associations have something critical to say about a specific proposal. There's little one looking back at them. This is what the social workers' associations of Croatia say in general and about this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act. I quote the words of the President of the Association of Social, Social Workers from Rijeka. She says, "The more shocking the scales of accidents and misery in Croatia are." What the president of the World Bank Regional Office for Croatia says, Mr. Annan Set. He's the director of the World Bank Regional Office. He is talking about the delay in reforms in Croatia and the growing number of poor people, i.e. the poverty line in Croatia and the saying that the crisis needs to be resolved. He says more and more citizens are below the poverty line. So that's not the problem we had before, that trend was stopped. Just the last few years of poverty at the big door of houses in Croatia. The share of the various social care programmes is 0.26% in the gross social product in Croatia. For example, 1.4% is in the European Union. ... Yes, this is the data, our data, and the Ministry of Health and Social Care, only the Ministry, please nice, health care and social care is recently presented to the European Union when it presented the data precisely regarding giving and about the social image in Croatia, then it is precisely from this data that half a million citizens live below the social minimum, 250 thousand Croats. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Hebrang even said something about it. Half of them are permanent users and generally have no other income at all. Social assistance is received equally by men and women, and a third of the users are generally due to their lack of property and because of their inability and ability to hire them for a period of even longer than 5 years and even 10 years have come to the door of social care. What do social data on your data that you have substrated to the European Union say to social workers on the ground who have contact with these people and who are applying the law, the existing one, and who are waiting for changes? They say that the right pictures of social images in Croatia should be added to that number by another 250,000 users, because 250 thousand more users need our help. They need this assistance but did not receive it because of the limited possibilities, i.e. the state's giving. So there is simply a catastrophic number, a number of half a million Croats, or Croatian citizens living below the social minimum. Such a picture was well contributed by poor and low wages. Today we also heard this bogeyman who again overtook Croatia's again epidemic of work without pay. So where it's going to be done without the worker being paid for his misery and the state not being able to get the strength, it has its own mechanisms to put an end to it. Because you see, people like that become a social case. They don't belong by any standard. Then who should the state protect here? Well, they're employers who are obliged to pay. Thus, the state protects itself and removes it from itself in the end is not even its obligation to supply these people in some way and to provide them with help because employers, because they are mild to these employers who owe and to the state. So that's the kind of person twice the damage to the state. I don't know what kind of affection they've acquired with this authority when they're so kind to them. Because I'm saying, it directly damages not only those people who have been cut off, their families, their children, the harm of the state. It damages healthy employers who are then in a unfair game because she doesn't have a "cost" in quotes, pays. And if we look a little bit at what our social picture is in the county we'll see that story going further, the more south of it, that towards the south and east of the country is drastically that picture of the mountains than in the northern parts of the country. The worst is in Sibenik-Knin County where social assistance receives 10% of the population. So it is one all in all very bad social picture of Croatia. So according to the World Bank, the poverty line in Croatia is 11%. Although the World Bank's data, and we all know that incomes have grown, but the biggest growth has gone to the richest, the state has not found mechanisms to evenly deploy a total social, or newly created wealth. And another very difficult fact is that as many as 1/3 of the poor live in households where the wife is the homeowner. The most common thing is women they have, who are single mothers or who have taken care of their disabled old men. A key issue has also been raised here, which is not addressed by this bill's proposal that the basis has not changed since 2001. Everything in Croatia has grown, i.e. slowly inflation is going, it is not so noticeable, but if we add up 5, 6 years we can figure out by very simple surgery that for the same amount we can buy less goods. And there is no doubt that since 2001 that base should have been raised long ago. If we really want to do this with these changes that are specifically proposed and really done. What does Mrs. Zdravka Leutar say from the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb and the study centre of social work? She says the current situation in Croatia looks about like this, that the trend in the growth of the number of older people and people with disabilities who need such help changing the family structure is evident, so the increase in single households and finds that state givings are getting smaller and smaller. It's something you shouldn't look at. And these are the starting points of which the government, if indeed considers and shows, and wants to show serious will, must be taken into account. Here it is, should also draw attention to what counterpart Lalic spoke about the therapeutic communities themselves. It was the government's obligation, specifically this ministry, your Mr. Minister, to remember when we changed the Penal Code, when the state wanted to manifest its great concern for drug addicts, for the problem of drug abuse in Croatia. At that time, in the Penal Code as a single measure of reference to these drug addicts, so not only did the punishment, but it made an alternative measure possible, i.e. set out in the Criminal Law, and forced it to go to therapeutic communities, and now this is an opportunity, we expect in the Social Care Act to talk about it. Not a word. Where the judges will please direct you, the law has been existing for a year and a half they have no place to guide them. So something else that the great reformer Bekaria used a long time ago, otherwise a criminal who spoke in his famous work on crimes and punishments, says one true reform in social legislation, rather than amending all possible criminal laws in order for society to be healthier and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89811	Yes, Caesar Beckaria was saying something about the death penalty. A 5-minute debate, a respected representative on behalf of the SDP club, Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89812	Well, here's Mr. President, to what my colleague just said. Indeed, the fundamental problem that we as a country are facing is the absence of any serious reforms, and this is also what I would say to ease the numbering, the mention of 4% of GDP for social ones, and it is actually talking about how unseriously access to the whole problem. And you know what I'm going to tell you? In absolute terms, therefore, not all positions have been reduced relatively in terms of achieving the social security of people. You know how much unemployment benefits have been cut? For 200 million compared to 2003 when the budget was 77 billion, it is now 110. But it's the same fee that she was then and which is now, 400 kuna as the basis of social assistance hasn't changed, hasn't changed the budget base since 2003, she's still 4000 226 kuna, and she's the basis for all social rights. Birth benefits have been reduced, children's allowance expenditure has been reduced. Do you people know that? And now about this law. Mr. Minister, write down the consequences here. I certainly have no doubt that you would want to result in the consequences of the reduction of the number of rights by their unification. Nothing happens, Mr. Minister, because it doesn't mean anything unless it's related to better law orientation and easier access to rights. You can shrink, shrink as much as you want. People don't have access to social rights. Better target of the right by more precise terms. It's unclear what you think will lead to a better focus of law when you don't have the initial information on current target or three, four says. No, three, three, simpler access to the social rights user. There's no argument for a simpler approach... Since the law does not say anything about changes in the functioning of competent services, primarily from the social care centre that decides on these rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nothing is said about better informing citizens about their rights, etc. Here's the key to the problem. Three, four. It says better coverage of users by introducing the right to the status of custodian rights. However, the introduction of the right to parent status has nothing to do with better user coverage. One narrow group of children who manage to cope with how bloody and difficult it will be the status of the most severe damage, after this exhausting process of skill and parental training, this right will therefore be fought by parents who are again, who are completely unclear from that working point of view. The introduction of new forms of rights has nothing to do with better coverage of users, nor more significant promotion of non-institutional forms of care, and then this establishment of professional chambers in this way will not contribute to raising the quality of professional work. This will be done by Mr. Ministers to reorganise the entire social care system, define business standards, business quality systems, introduce permanent education, improve employees, raise material status, possible progress, etc. These are all things Mr. Minister, which we left you as a completed project in 2003. And I ask the question, Mr. Minister, why was he waiting to launch the reform, and why is it that even now the proposer is not going into a more serious reform process? Moreover, I will remind my colleagues that a loan has been signed with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a gift from the Swedish Agency for International Development for the implementation of the project for the development of the social care system IBRD 73070 HR Mr. Minister and since it is a significant financial commitment for the Republic of Croatia that I really think it is legitimate to ask the question of responsibility for not fulfilling the contractual obligations that the Republic of Croatia has towards the lender. If it wasn't for political reasons, believe me, I'd never raise my hand for what's proposed here, but you wouldn't hesitate to charge anyone who wouldn't raise a hand to him if he were a god against this right that's the only thing that's good here for the status of a foster parent, and that's why we won't be against this law, but you, Mr. Minister, need to know. Admitted, not that you as a government are responsible ordnance definitely because, not for the condition it is, but because you have not done anything in your mandate to change that situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89813	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear representative Ivana Sučec Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89814	From a series of incorrect information I've heard here, and I understand them because the frustration of the former minister is visible from every word, unfortunately speaking. He could've made it happen, and he didn't. It's just one incorrect thing for me, so it's inaccessible to get into social giving. So it's accessible to everyone. This ministry has done so much to simplify the methodology, to inform the public, that the municipal councils are considering social situations, to refer to the centres, that it is so much a connection of the first, second and third degrees. I don't want to do it now, because I don't have time to talk. But as the head of the municipality and the county council, and finally, I know the whole system well, and I know in what way it's cumbersome, and I won't talk about the sums and I won't make all those topics that are possible here when it comes to one narrow area, and that's just the Social Care Act, which then opens up that through the flat-rate evaluations and evaluations it speaks very differently than it really is, and I won't remind us all when we talk about the social situation in Croatia on a recent report by the Agency on the number of mobile and fixed telephone lines that speak quite the opposite. So not about the level of poverty you're constantly talking about as corruption is possible, so it shouldn't be at all, not even poverty, but that there's much less of what you want me to say to this whole society, it's the same fact and it's just not anymore to listen to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89815	Second correction by the respected representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89816	Thank you very much, sir. Well, this is pure political demagogy. If you want these maternity benefits and maternity leave. You cut maternity leave, cut maternity benefits, didn't increase. This government has increased maternity benefits, tied to the budget base, children have received, 50,000 children are included further in the child's allowance and a series of further...... Don't talk but look at the statistics and don't sell the demagogue. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89817	And the third correction by the respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89818	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Representative! In your debate, you said a series of inaccuracies and I'll tell you the main ones you were aiming at. That birth benefits have been reduced, that many labour rights have been abolished. That's not true. A part of it was said to you by MP Caparin, and I'm just going to remind you of the workers' rights. In 2002, you passed the Labour Act when you drastically reduced those labour rights. Remember that you have reduced the amount of severance. You've put hundreds of companies into bankruptcy. You didn't take care of those workers. You've cut their notice. You've reduced their pass to an annual. Remember, this government paid off how many millions of people with disabilities who have sued your actions and decisions. And this government paid these workers off. Please! It's all black for you, because you're not in power and you're not going to get power with such demagogy this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89819	Final review by Minister of Health and Social Care Neven Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89820	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So let me start here, a month ago, a month ago, and something with the European Commission we signed a joint memorandum. And Mr. Spiegel, a European Commissioner who is actually a very respectable man in the field of social care, of course was very interested in our system and I personally, because we met several times, had dinner, had lunch and had several meetings together and, of course, talked about what we found in 2003. And he was terrified, and you finally know what he asked me? He asked me, of course, who's responsible? I told him who was responsible. And you know what he was commenting on? So you did lock that man up. ... Well, I'm saying that he'll probably actually do that to his own judiciary. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Why? Because this man is known for a case we don't talk about very much, are we letting the judiciary do its job, that the State's Attorney's Office is doing its job, and it's called "BUPA 91", one famous firm, unknown people, nepotism that has been paid off by two objects, and we know it. The subject is at the State's Attorney's Office, and I think that's what they're going to say. But let me go back to what we are subject to, which is, therefore, our proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Care Act. I agree that these amendments and additions are already the sixth, that we necessarily need this moment's consolidated text. I have, and I have heard that all clubs have accepted more or less, I expect that other reading will be fully accepted, because I really do not find anything here that would be controversial, which would not be in favour of citizens in Croatia who actually want to achieve and have to exercise certain rights. That's why clearly, and I want to say that a few times it's been emphasized, right, we're going to have a consolidated text. So that's what my legal service team is working on, and we'll absolutely have it. What I must also react to, I want to react to the position of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives, where it is said that the welfare system is to be baffled. I want to repeat the words here, which is, ten thousand almost eleven thousand people working in the welfare system. People who work great, who often don't ask for work hours, who go in the rain, in the snow, in different terrain configurations and care for end-users. I find this statement offensive to both them and social care users in the end. And so I have to react very, very sharply. I will sincerely forward this to the Croatian Association of Social Workers, asking for their indication as well. It is today a respectable association that counts almost a thousand members because there is no one left to suppress the activities of the profession, to carry out some of its ideas. No, I don't. Today's profession comes first. This government is an expert government and supports the profession, not the dilettans who have been holding it back all along. What I'd like to say anyway, and I agree with that, which is when it's said that we haven't given the parent enough, that 2,000 kunas are little. [[- Insect: Bravo.]] Well, believe me, I'd be the first one to give double and triple that I could. And I think that's what these people deserve and they need to get more. But let's not forget they didn't have anything until today. Nothing. That today we open the way to and when there will be more. Because the indicators we have today and in the current hour we could hear them clearly, Croatia is going through economic prosperity. And I'm more than sure that in two years, three years we're going to have this amount twice as much. And that's actually something to say right now. We're opening the law, and of course no one will ever lift that right again. What I would like to say anyway, and I was a little surprised that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party has no opinion. I was a little surprised. I expected him to have an opinion. They have someone else's opinion. But it doesn't matter. So I must immediately say that I'm a little surprised with a proposal that social care users who can theoretically be active, actually engage in some kind of work action. That puts me back on some of those ORA or whatever their name is. And I have to admit it's very, very unacceptable to me. I would also like to say that I cannot accept the position of the Croatian People's Party, which says that social care users fake, invent, falsify certain data. Well, you'll allow it, which means we've accused our own people. I explicitly want to make it clear today that I condemn such an attitude, condemns it, because it is definitely inappropriate. These are the people we need and we need to help. After all, that's why you're here, and I'm here to do whatever these people need today. I agree, in fact, with Mr. Lesar who presented the problem of the notes. And that's one of the segments we're working very hard on. And it will be incorporated into the Social Care Act, a new law that will, in whole, solve a whole series of problems, and based on our reforms and our social compensation reform strategies, as well as a memorandum signed with the European Commission. I have to admit that I've heard some things here that absolutely must be disproved, which is that our students, and most often they're home users for children without proper parental care when they get our scholarship to simply forget them. That's not true. First, they have a clear priority in accommodation in therefore student homes. Secondly, and I want to say because obviously some don't follow, which is that we largely provide housing units, separate units at our large centers to help these children and through our own apartment. Next, speaking of which, the house of lucky bricks was mentioned. I agree, my ministry and I personally supported this project. Is it true, Agent Raven? That's right. Great. We helped this project, we stand behind it but not as a separate project, but a project that will be incorporated into a home for children without adequate parental care. So home runs and manages that space, not create some kind of parallel pair of units, etc. that really doesn't make sense. So, publishing activity in this sense, in terms of issuing space and renting, I do not support as we will not allow any lending but the state will take care of it because these children come from our largest families and these are homes for children without adequate parental care. Well, speaking of those homes, it's just for the illustration that the devastation of the system we found. Imagine that none of these homes in Croatia had a psychologist or one. Well, you'll allow it, so these are children who have been abused very often, these are children who carry with them trauma and problems. There was no psychologist. Well, that's one disaster. Look at another piece of information I'm going to tell you. In 2004, we established immediately upon arrival, after obtaining the mandate of the printer for the blind, Braill's letter. Imagine, in fact, in 2003, there was no printing of the following material because the "Vinku Bek" was abolished, it was not paid. So let me call it a devastation system. That the fill-up of our social care centres was at a level of 40% to 60% and was expected to be very much, there was expected to be field work with 40% to 60% of professional staff, and it was precisely because the representative Lelic said very nicely and some more 446 new employees in Croatia proud of the Croatian government and proudly of the welfare system. And I'm going around today and I'm going very high in head because people recognize the improvement and prosperity this system is going to and what this government is doing. Perhaps another piece of information that will surely disgust you because it disgusted me when I saw it, which is that 16 welfare centres did not have a lawyer, Mrs. Lalic, a legal center for social care. The Center for the Social Care of Large Cities, which have a huge number of users. These are the results of the policy that your former coalition government has conducted. And that's what we have to say today. It doesn't have to be covered up because it's definitely one disaster. I just like to say it didn't happen again. What you'd still like to say is a single comment. Mrs. Škulić is in her and there are parts in her presentation that I absolutely support when she said and asked me and she was talking about children exactly whose parents we want to help, meaning they have a high degree of disability. When she asked me if you were going to replace the parents of the children? I'm sorry she's not here, but I'll answer your question and tell her. I won't. Why? Because parenting isn't replaceable. Parenthood is a unique thing. I know that as a parent. There's no other parent. And that's why we're going with this law to help these parents as much as we can. And in the end here, several times it has been pointed out very clearly that we need a comprehensive new law. I absolutely agree with that, we were called as Government to do it, and here I am now promising that in early 2008, in the very January, so we will go out with this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89821	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Looks like the MP got a little confused, so we'll do it. ... The quote? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89822	I'm really not going to correct all the rudeness that he demonstrated... But I will warn you, too, President of the Parliament. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89823	Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89824	To correct if he tries to insinuate again.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89825	It's not a correction, it's a threat one.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89826	No, it's not a threat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89827	It's a threat.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89828	Please, I'm correcting the insinuation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89829	You're threatening the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89830	Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Minister's insinuation that a person named Vidovic as I am, and there are at least 20,000 people in this country that have anything to do with me. ... He mentioned nepotism, I'm sorry. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89831	And who mentioned your name?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89832	Yes, the gentleman mentioned nepotism. And I will sue you for slander, Mr. Minister, if you use that insinuation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89833	Oh, come on, colleague Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89834	I'm correcting, so it's completely incorrect, in no relation, and there was no nepotism when it came to it. ... I don't know if there is or isn't, I don't know, but there's no kinship and nepotism. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89835	Mr Vidovic, Minister, I listened very carefully and carefully, in no word in the context of nepotism or any affair mentioned your name. Then why do you recognize each other? It's nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89836	But he mentioned the function I acted on, Mr. Neven, so I guess that's understandable.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89837	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89838	Thank you. I'm correcting Mr. Minister's incorrect allegations when he said that I insulted the social care center's professional staff because I said that the welfare system is abject. Mr. Ministers, social workers and other professional workers work in the welfare system. They don't make up the welfare system. The social care system is made up of the laws passed by this House And these professional workers [[The intruders don't understand.]] These professional workers are working under the law, the rules of dissuasive which you bring and the instructions you provide. [["Peace"! Order!]] And the system is accommodating one who allows social assistance to live on the person who is working and who works, is able and works, and his incomes from the foundation of work are less than those whose social benefits are greater, so it is accommodating that he is able to say that he is not worth doing because he is doing so better. It's seductive in the system, and it's such a system that seduces people. I haven't apologized to you, nor do I need to apologize to you. [[Intruder: We accept an apology.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89839	Dear representative Milanka Opačić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89840	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the minister who said, "We've secured housing units for children coming out of homes for unsupervised children." You're giggling on someone else's feathers again, and it's incorrect what you said. I wish you'd secured an apartment. In Zagreb, three housing units were provided by the City of Zagreb, one of which was donated by President Mesic. In Split, a residential unit was collected for it by citizens and certain associations. They built a residential unit in Slavonski Brod Well, cut it out, it's good, it's good! [[The intruders don't understand.]] In Slavonski Brod, the housing unit was built by citizens, built by sponsors, built by private persons. And not you, your Ministry, unfortunately, nor the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89841	And the esteemed representative of the Mato Raven. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89842	Thank you very much. Well, here's to the same lead that my colleague Milanka was talking about, correcting Mr. Secretary's misstatement that the Ministry has built and built dislocated housing units. That's the first quote. Another quote about Slavonski Brod, the house of lucky bricks as they called it. There is no double management system. We built that facility, gave you control. It has been transferred to the property, and we expect you to be the most responsible person to place this object, as well as everyone else, in full function. For now, there are two children, and I am sure there are a number of children in Croatia who would be happy to share the pleasure of such a life.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89843	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89844	Your Honor, Mr. President, he's hurt. I first picked up the plate. I can't really be sure now whether it's an incorrect quote or a Rules of Procedure. Since you're denying me the opportunity to submit here a correction of the incorrect assumption that I've committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure which I respect because yet you see better from that lofty chair then allow me to present this institute and explain it to the material injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Because it has to be either one or the other, you can't deny me both. Because no doubt this tile was in the air. I'm really not sure whether it's on this side or on the other side.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89845	All right, all right. Now like this. You picked it up, I saw it. As he saw it, what it says [[/Intruder: What did you see? And what did you see?]] on the black infringement of the Rules of Procedure [[/Intruder: What?]] You have raised the breach of your Rules of Procedure [[Then let me do it.]] That's what you picked up, you picked up that side. [[Good. Okay.]] And now, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? [[Good. Okay. Okay. I'm a canal.]] So you called for a way out of purpose. [[Intruder: I've been meaning to point out an incorrect quote, but there are elements here in behavior]] The road from intention to idea is very tough. [[Intruder: Mr. Minister, on both sides and on the other hand, so allow me]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89846	Okay. Okay. Identify yourselves. I'm ready.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89847	What am I going to define? Now that I'm committed to something. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Because you're with, you're spinning with a tile to the left, right? That I'm devoting myself now.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89848	It was complete, excuse me, Mr. President. This wasn't turning left or right. Well, that's what Mr. President has to do with the breach of our Rules of Procedure. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] You can't say a strict measure to Mr. Minister, but only to the MP, but I do think that the provisions of the holding order have been violated at the session because Mr. Minister has offended with his performance because in the lack of content he has performed here with the argument of the high decibels alone according to our colleague Škulić, whom he said we would pass it on to her. So he told her like this. So you hurt the Constitution. He disrespected a person based on her family status when he said, "Unlike I'm a parent."
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89849	Unfortunately, he's doing multiple in this announcement, multiple injuries to the Rules of Procedure that you've done, I'm giving you a reminder, Mrs. Anticevic. A warning for multiple violations of the Rules of Procedure. To play Rules of Procedure. Because you're getting into something... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get on board to determine the quorum. The result? 88 MPs and MPs. We have a quorum. The second one, in the meantime, will get involved. We're going to the vote. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, first reading. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act is hereby adopted. All objections and proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? 103 votes in favor. Two abstentions. The proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89852	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Here are just a few introductory words about the draft law on foster care. As in all other modern countries, one of our priorities is indeed prevention of institutionalisation and deinstitutionalisation. But what's important is that we don't really want to stay as some kind of letter and as spoken words anymore, but it's a really great desire for us to actually do some things in this segment. When we talk about foster care, and I want to say it with pride today, Croatia has a beautiful 105-year tradition of foster care. 105 years we can really rise. I tried to ask if any other country had such a long tradition of certified foster care. I didn't find it. Maybe someone else will find it. And of course I have to admit, honestly, I'm very proud of it. However, when we look at the situation today, we will see that at this point in our homes we actually have 3 to 4 times as many users as in foster homes. And the first thing that we ask ourselves, is 105 years of tradition, one bad relationship between institutions and outside institutions, and we ask ourselves, what is actually what we should encourage fostering fosterhood? Maybe it's better to back up with some numbers to say the number of users in foster families if we look back from '95. We see to this day that it is actually increasing gradually. So, for example, since 2003, when he was 5 thousand and 550, 2006 only 5 thousand 877 users. I think we can take a big step in this segment together, and I think that's one segment that really needs to be worked out. What we didn't have so far, however, we didn't have a separate regulation, a separate law. Recently, we were present at a meeting of not only ministers but also experts from the European Union. One of the most important topics was fostering. We are absolutely bowing down and we want to enter into let's say the direction Europe has drawn for itself, which is that foster care must become one of the main foundations of the social care system. But what is really important is to say, which is to ask whether foster care is solved as a profession or not. Two or three countries have solved foster care as a profession. Many countries don't have it settled as a profession. And thinking is very difficult. In some segments, however, there are certain shortcomings. However, the conclusion from that conference was one, and that is common which I absolutely think is acceptable to us, and that is that foster care as such deserves to be recognized and rewarded. So it's true, it's a humanitarian act, it's something that must really inspire and encourage our attention, but also something that we as a government, and you as representatives of the Croatian Parliament must also reward. It's this incentive, of course, one of the incentives, and there's a whole series of them is practically financial compensation. That is why, as one of the basic lay motives of saying this law, it was to arrange a foster care system, separate a separate foster care for children, foster care for adults and what is most important, and that is to introduce compensation for the foster parent. We haven't solved the status of professionalism right now. I have to admit, I don't want to run. Let's wait, let's take a look at how things are actually going to be crystallized in other countries that have come up with similar solutions like this before us. Let's see if most countries actually get into professionalism. I will tell your personal, intimate thinking that probably this is the right way, with good control, with a good, quality system of supervision, that the definitely way of fostering in the perspective must be professionalism. It is only with such professionalism that the fostering system will create a prerequisite for me to say what many today advocate, although often they do not know what they advocate, which is the agency. It's true, we never did and I'll say, personally I've never removed the agency as a possibility. However, the agency at the time when we really are beginning to have a strong, strong, and recognizable foster home. To begin with, I think these measures and this law will be a great incentive to foster and that we should actually wait with such an agency. In the meantime, of course, our goal is to promote foster care. And we haven't worked enough here. We haven't worked on that perhaps most important segment, which is that social care centers are directly related to foster families. Because whoever is already doing good and good, and we recognize him today, we need to take foster care of him as some sort of mentor, like the person who will really, truly, really promote foster care in the right way. Of course, along with the profession that is united in welfare centers. So on the one hand, civil society. On the other hand, the waist is actually on the same track, which means promotion and strengthening foster care. And that's also one of the light motives of this law. And that means where we want to set up special foster teams inside the center. And this part that's about the welfare center really professionalizes, so it's people who are committed to foster care. Of course, what we really wanted to clearly define are criteria for foster parents. I want to make it clear here that by defining the criteria in this law, and not wanting to commit injustice, we accept the existing situation as being found. So all those who are fosterers now continue their foster status, continue to be foster parents with the number of users they have, with the amounts they have, as far as supplies are concerned. The only thing that will be added to them in practical terms is to make up for the foster care. All those who are yet to enter the foster care system will be subject to new rules. Of course, here I want to make it clear, and we've had a number of public debates, and here I want to say that individuals have not been satisfied with some solutions. However, when we look at the global majority of associations, and I have their opinions and written opinions, they have given us clear support, especially when we talk about the smoldering of children. In foster care, we have made it clear to children, and again led by European experiences that the maximum number of users that one family can care about is three. In so doing, at least one person must have at least medium professional equipment. Of course, a lot of people have asked me why. So the moment we propose mandatory high school, and today it was said, I don't know who said exactly when we really want to have as much of a more educated regiment as possible, then of course we want to put a practical focus here, and that means allowing at least one of the foster families to have the least medium professional equipment. As far as foster care is concerned, foster care for adults there, of course, remains the same. So you don't need to have, can therefore be lower than medium professional training. And here we also put the largest number of three users. But I want to make it clear that we're open to debate. We've already had full and personal contacts with adult foster parents and I must admit that if we actually have a debate here in the Assembly, we're prepared to practically increase that number from three to four. What matters and always asks, and what in the future when someone will have five, more. That's where we're headed, and I think that's what we're talking about today is starting a family home. Why? because we think that in terms of better working with our users, and that's our primary goal. Let's not forget these are our children, so they're our adults we want to worry about as much as possible. If there are more users to allow the system to be entered and real professionals. So, one part of that system, and we professionalize, and in this context, we create certain predispositions for quality and accommodation and life, so we propose a family centre that ultimately existed so far and for which absolutely my great support. What I would really like to say is perhaps a few more words about deinstitutionalisation at all, not only in general children, or adults, but in this sense I would also like to say something about mentally ill persons. You see, in recent months, there's been one and perhaps a year, one big controversy about the deinstitutionalization system of a form that's actually called an inclusion. There have been many ideas that some of our homes for mentally ill people simply end, and that users who have been staying there for 20, 30 years are simply staying in apartments throughout our cities, our villages. I'll tell you that I've been talking, so I won't go too far if I tell a hundred mothers and fathers home users for mentally ill persons who are unanimously against such a model. And you know, here's what I'm going to tell you, and personally as a doctor, there's an expression that we call hospitalism. When a person has been in an institution for a very long time, in some home, it adapts to that home as much as possible, by getting out of that mile, so simply by putting, by trying to integrate into normal society, we're actually doing a bad thing and that's why, and, of course, by encouraging that inclusion, we want to engage, but we said we're going to make our model, a model that will be adapted to our tradition, we don't know our cultural heritage, but also our economic potentials. So, which will simply be able to function. And we said that we were going to develop that inclusion system into two phases. The first stage where we're going to create independent units within our homes, so we're going to do a little bit of self-indulgence in these people so that in the second phase of them, if it's possible to integrate practically in the environments that we all live in. I think that this moment for Croatia is a much more acceptable model, and I will say that, and we have mentioned there very much and the Croatian Association of Social Workers who have indeed become more respectable today and who should be asked and respected today, I hope that this will also be a future chamber, that we will actually get one quality material and elaborated so our model of inclusion. What I would certainly like to say is that this foster care should not be looked at in isolation. If we look at the previous law we discussed, we'll see clearly that there's actually a whole series of things that get intertwined. One of them is a patronage. I was talking about patronage, and it's been mentioned several times. One system we repeated in 2005 is constantly piloting and we have made sure that it works perfectly. Of course, he has a sufficient number of professional workers, rehabilitators, and needs to continue to work on that. These 446 employees from 2004 to today, and we like to say that is actually just the beginning. This employment system must continue, but not only employment but also rewards for their work. We must no longer allow those wages to be reduced, the wages must be increased because the obligations are increasing, these people are doing well, they are doing well, and therefore they should be rewarded and I hope that the new Law on the salaries of civil servants will actually make a step for these people and rewards. In the end, I sincerely hope that we will adopt this law unanimously, because it is definitely a big, big step forward for the welfare system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89853	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89854	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr. Minister who says that they have been conducted under this Law by a number of public debates and that he has received association support. Mr. Minister, we are used to you getting such arguments to subsequently find out that no one actually knew, or, for example, the Federation of the Hosts of the Republic of Croatia, which gathers the largest number of foster parents, claims that the newspaper found out that the law was passed. He learned it from the papers, and then by the time it got into the parliamentary procedure, they got a fax to put their remarks on the law by tomorrow. So we introduce accuracy and we know that there is a demand for these same associations. Not that they've given us consent to the law, but they've asked the law to withdraw from the procedure because it's inconclusive. I don't know who you've held public hearings with, but you certainly haven't conducted a public debate with those to whom this law applies, and that law actually regulates their relations. It's the most important thing for them, but you've been around it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89855	And respected representative Marija Lugarić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89856	... The imprecise allegations by Minister Ljubicic that the government is introducing compulsory high school education. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] She just dropped out of compulsory high school education. On the agenda, we are just proposing a national programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education whose aim is not to introduce compulsory secondary education, but to raise the education of population levels, to enable successful social inclusion and the quality of employability to increase economic competitiveness, and neither of the two or three pages mentions the introduction of compulsory secondary education, or is mentioned only in the title of this document somewhere in the content. Therefore, it is incorrect to suggest that you introduce compulsory high school education.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89857	The committees. Legislative, labour, social policy and health care. Representative, the respected representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89858	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 74th session of the Committee held on 23 May 2007 discussed the proposal for a Household Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 9 May 2007. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the debate following the opening argument of the proposing representative, this proposal for a law is supported, in particular, because the issue of foster care is first regulated by a special law. Householding has a long tradition, and since 2004, it has been more intensively applied and represents a prevention of institutional forms of social care. In addition to raising concerns about fostering skills, reducing the number of users in a foster family, the introduction of a unique record and the register of foster families and accommodation of users has been assessed usefully. It warns of the need to categorise social care homes and services they provide, thus enabling the control of social care expenditure and achieving a rational fund savings system. This is particularly important in view of the considerable resources allocated from the GDP for all forms of social benefits, it noted in the debate. It also draws attention to the fact that there is no indication of how the user's participation in the cost of accommodation is determined and applied, nor is there any way in which he or she is entitled to report on the cost of household compensation. After a brief discussion, the board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption of the next conclusion. 1. Proposal for a Household Law in the text is hereby adopted as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and 2. All objections, proposals and opinions highlighted during the first reading will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89859	Thank you. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports? The Committee on Gender Equality? I'm opening a debate. Club of IDS MPs, respected representative Valter Drandić. He's gone. He's losing his word on this agenda point. The club of representatives of the HNS respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89860	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It's important and it's good to pass this law. Householding has so far been defined by a few articles, it seems to me 4, 5, 6 articles, how many in the Law on Social Welfare, which is actually one of the most important and most human affairs that a person can do. On the one hand, raising children, on the other hand, cares about those who need it. So far, no matter what we talk about and what numbers of instructions and our beautiful centuries-old tradition and one and another group of people who use foster services so bureaucratically to express themselves even though it's not what they live in someone's family. That's a real expression. So far, it is hardly 1/3 or less than 1/3 of those who need it in foster families. The others were housed. I think it's perfectly unnecessary to explain why it's bad for children who have no parental care, who have been harassed, who have been subjected to all kinds of horrors, to be raised in the atmosphere of home for carefree children, in an atmosphere where they can't get at least to the end exactly what they need most. the warmth of the family home, love and concrete individual understanding of an individual particular parent. That's what kids need. It's hard for kids to get in an institution. Finally, the law accepts this and therefore seeks to deinstitutionalise this kind of concern. It is that wherever possible and whenever possible, it enables natural environments and children who have no parental care and adults who have no care and those with special needs who also have no one in the family to provide them with that care. But the natural environment isn't the only advantage of it. According to the information we received in the context of the child's law in the carefree children's home, it seems to me between 7 and 11 thousand on average about 8 and some thousand kunas. Let's be realistic. Well, it's about money, of course. The foster parents get a thousand 400 for the same child, which is, of course, a embarrassing difference. Double those funds, double those funds would still be much, much cheaper than putting children in institutions. Three times as cheap. About the law itself. The aim of the law is to regulate the chaotic state and help. The chaotic state in the sense that it is actually not known exactly, is not exactly prescribed in which way the foster system can function. The aim of the law should also be not to do anything to harm users. Don't do anything to make someone who needs that kind of care unhappy tomorrow. I know an example of a family, an elderly couple, who are now seventy years old, who adopted a little, excuse me, a little baby because they couldn't adopt it, they were too old. They took that little baby, today it's a girl in high school. They've rewritten the property to her and they're really treating her like their own child. Under the provisions of this law, they couldn't be fosterers today. Of course, their condition is frozen, and they have adopted such a child according to the rules of the day. But a new foster parent today, fifty-one years old, couldn't have fostered a little child. People of God, there are people today, men who have little children at age 50 and one, and there are women. What's the restriction I'm not quite sure about? At the very least, I think it would be a good idea to leave that kind of restriction to this team, which is proposed in law, to set up a foster care team. To make the team decide, is the situation such that such a couple who is over 50 years old can foster a child or not? All in all, it seems to me that the law is written from the perspective of the state. So from the point of view of the state's obligation to take care of some of its citizens, they can't take care of themselves. It was about children, people who need special care or older people. It seems to me that it's not in the writing of the law, in the concept of the law that it wasn't thinking that the needs of these groups are actually quite different and what foster parents do with these groups is quite different. A child without parental care fostered in the foster family is to make him an independent person who, one day, will get an education and all together can come out into the world and function normally. It is not the task of foster parents and those with special needs to be provided with care and will be provided with unlimited care, or to the death. So it seems to me that the law should be treated in two completely separate parts of that matter. A similar limitation of age is also a restriction with school supplies. The current foster parents will be able to function as they function but the new one will not be able to accept the child in foster care if they do not have a high school. People, we recently talked here about the Law on adult education and found that there are a million and 400 thousand adults over the age of 18 who have a primary school or less than a primary school. So have We forbidden them to have children? And I guess this is what we should have done. So if they raise their children who are the reason that they can't go into that family where they raise their children and most often very well children who will tomorrow be college-educated citizens, academics, and I don't know who everything is. So, if these children are well raised and why can't they raise these children too? I think it's a discriminatory, unnecessary discriminatory restriction. It seems to me that there is a greater resolution that professional training should be given to foster parents who care for adults, disabled persons, people with special needs, older people. They need to know exactly what to do. They know. These guys can raise kids. If they could make them and give birth they'd know them and raise them. They can raise their own, they can raise these other children. So it seems to me that logic is a little messed up. Baby supplies in foster care haven't changed as much as one of my neighbors who's had three children in that care for the last four or five years told me. Children with special needs who are fostered in larger centres where there are opportunities for their education come from smaller places where they are not in the foster home during the summer and, of course, these foster parents get nothing. They are expected in the fall, preparing for school, those children must prepare for school in the same way as they are from home, and I think it is perfectly unacceptable, that it is a single savings that have neither economic nor moral justification. Also, the fact that we all have children who are bigger and smaller, the fact that with a thousand and four hundred and I think sixty kunas a month. It is very difficult for a child, especially a child who came from a broken family, to come with the need for increased attention, to give this child what he needs without talking about something more. The law doesn't seem to tell me anything that should actually worry about the development of foster care, who it is and what it will do that is, who is going to turn this situation into one-quarter of the children, I'm talking primarily about children, in homes, in families and three-quarters in homes. Here you should institutionalize yourself in law, and I don't know if you'll call her an agency, you'll call her an expert team, you can call her whatever you want, someone who'll propose concrete measures that you do now. These are not concrete measures. If you reduce the number of children per family from five to three, and we want to increase the number of those children who remain in the family, they do not go home means that the number of families should be increased. And how to increase the number of those families, it doesn't say here. It doesn't write any stimulating measures, it doesn't write any ways, it doesn't write any institutions, it doesn't say anything about how to do it now. The fee proposed by this law is offensive. It's offensive these guys seem to be 700 kunas, something like that, monthly. That's not pay. It's not pay for anything, no job. It's not even a reward. I don't know what category of receipt you'd sort it into. But people who do this job no matter what group of foster parents they're dealing with can't be paid in that way. Maybe it's better to forget that idea than to launch this offensive in public at all. Everything in the law needs to be passed. It's not a dilemma. But in this form, there are too many fellers, too many ambiguities. It might be a good idea if the Proposer returned it to himself once more, as the associations suggest, and tried to come up with things better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89861	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89862	Thank you very much. I would correct the quote of a colleague who does not consider it necessary to have a professional arrangement, a medium professional arrangement for foster parents, but only for foster parents who are fostering adults. A colleague, however, is concerned with children who have suffered certain traumas whether they are psychological traumas, whether they are children with special needs. I know that college and education does not guarantee love for children, but in such cases, these children really need to have a certain background in terms of some knowledge at least medium professional training because it requires special access to such children rather than to those children you have raised from the beginning as your children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89863	And respected representative Mirjana Brnadic is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89864	Thank you very much. A colleague said that a very difficult child can be provided adequate care with a small foster care fee. Well, I have to correct that assumption for the reason that the basic motto of fostering is humanity and there's no compensation for fostering because then it's turning into a business and that's exactly what's being discussed around the world whether it's professionalizing foster care. And certainly it's the position of most people in the world, everyone in the world, that it can't become business. It must be humane, and only such people can take good care of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89865	Thank you. Question now whether to continue or not? I think we should stop now. Tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. It is the SDP Club, the respected representative of Milanka Opačić, and the respected representative of Stjepan Kozina. So behind him, the esteemed representative of Ljubica Lalić. So HDZ respected representative Carmela Caparin. That's four clubs left tomorrow at 9:30 with this order. So a sequel tomorrow at 9:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89866	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session with the agenda point that has already begun, which is the proposal for a Household Act. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89867	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will immediately request, on behalf of the SDP Club, that this law should actually be withdrawn and that this law does not go into second reading because this law is the most harmful law that we have received so far from the Ministry of Health and Social Care. This little foster home we've got with this law, we're definitely going to put an end to it. Yesterday, Mr. Minister said he had received the support of the Association for this Law, and I will say here that according to what I've been communicating with, and so have many of my colleagues and what we've received from the Associations actually disagreed with this law, they think this law is harmful to them. So as much as we need one law like this as it's written, it's not acceptable and it's not welcome. This law definitely stops deinstitutionalisation, and there's no point in saying that we support deinstitutionalisation in this way. The fact is that in the past few years, we have an increasing number of children's declines in foster families, and this is what the data we have received in this law are talking about. Like what? you have a number of children and youngsters located in foster families 289 children less than in 2003. When I talked about this problem somewhere in January, it was immediately from the ministry two days later that a press conference was held in which it was denied and the question was when it was spoken true, whether it was true at the time at the press or whether it was telling the truth now in this law when we got the numbers. Because then the ministry gentlemen led by the UNICEF-led person in Croatia said that in Croatia only 2,600 issued 597 permits for foster families, and according to this law here we have from 2003 to 2006 so in 4 years only 82 foster families are more. So it's also said that in 2006, only 294 children were adopted, and here we have lost 289 children since 2003. So I'm curious when we didn't, or when you weren't telling the truth. Then when you wrote the law and then when you went to the press to deny my information about getting less and less into foster families, that more and more children unfortunately stay in their homes and that centres on this issue together with the ministry do not do what they should do. In this law, it is bad, or rather, that we might even look back on something that came out in the paper this morning, which is the attitude of people who work in homes for careless children, the attitude of the profession that deals and cares for those children 24 hours a day who have talked about how because of the inactivity of a part of the centre, more and more children are actually staying in homes, they say in the Split home for unsettled children in the last three years have not adopted any children. Children remain at home for 15 and 16 years, although in those 15 years none of the biological parents asked about them, no one cared about them. Therefore, because of the clean inactivity of the children in the center, they neither go to foster homes nor go to adoption. So that warns the waist, warns those who deal with those children for 24 hours. In this law, it is also bad that together in the same category foster parents are placed for children and adults. In our opinion, it is necessary to separate those two stories. Therefore, children are specific to the adult population located in foster families. And those two categories certainly need to be separated in this law. In our practice there is something which is also extremely bad, and still in this law tries to leave it as something that should be good, and these are different licenses for foster parents. People have to go through a certain education, get a license for fostering children. But there's a license you get to tell healthy children and there's a license you get if you're going to host children with special needs. It is bad, and anyone who has any understanding of this problem knows that for children with special needs it is extremely important to ungetoze them in no way and that these children can actually have a single and good recovery if they are placed together with other children. So this kind of ghettoization is absolutely unacceptable in our opinion. On the other hand, you have something that I was talking about yesterday, which is when the institutions of the system put obstacles on you and they don't even think about what life carries on. And that's what you're doing, for example. a case of children who have not been able to find foster parents for 6 or 7 years because they are children with special needs, children who, for example, They have to go to certain exercises in Suvag. For example, pick up the phone. one single woman in Zagreb who is ready to adopt such a child. Unfortunately, the woman got a license, the woman got a license for fostering children, but she did not get a license for fostering children with special needs. And the child instead of going to school, instead of going to therapy in the Suvag child, it is impossible because of one single paper because a woman does not therefore have a license for fostering children with special needs. And there is simply a rigidity of the system in which very difficult things are changing and very difficult to meet because of the more respect for bureaucracy than the child’s right is seen and that this system should actually be at the service and help such children, rather than looking at paperwork, papers and meeting certain administrative provisions. Children are not numbers, children are not papers, children are simply special children who are in carefree homes without parental care, children who need much more attention than we give them. This Law provides for employment in fact by a large number of new people in social care centres to work on adoption procedures. For their employment, a certain financial amount will be used, they will be further educated, and I will tell you that people in the centres are already suffering from PTSD from numerous educations. As far as they're concerned, I think it's primarily necessary to help them in a different way. On the other hand, introduce order to those who don't do professional work. On the other hand, when it comes to foster parents, that education is needed by foster parents, not by the people in the center. Hosts should be educated because foster parents receive children who are traumatized by being left at home, who do not have adequate parental care, who may have passed through their families, many abuses, so highly traumatized children with whom these foster parents have to work. Hosts, if they are not educated, if they do not know how to approach those children, if they do not know how to behave in certain situations when children and show some of their traumas and some of their wounds, then the foster parents are in a very awkward situation. Therefore, the education needed is not necessary for people in the centre, but needs foster parents, and it is precisely for foster parents that certain teams will be at their service almost 24 hours a day. On the other hand, we do not need new employment. That's what we need if we're gonna hire our own staff. But to help the foster parents, we don't need new employment because there are people in homes for carefree children, there are people in rehabilitation centers, there are people in... So there are people in the current institutions that deal with these children, who know these children best, who are people of the profession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these people can be a good sport to foster families and can therefore be very helpful to them, and I think that these people should be used to help foster families. After all, people in all these institutions said that without additional compensation they were willing to help foster families, they were willing to even do so to seek foster families to prepare them for their first encounter with the child, to prepare them for how the child would be in their family, so they are willing to give all their professional support to the foster parents to find a real alternative environment for the child. An institution such as home or any other institution for children are actually necessarily evil and it is much better if these children can go into a foster family because it is a much more natural environment for them than it is an institution and that is why it is important that as many children as possible go into foster families. Unfortunately, the situation now is that we have a negative trend, which is that more and more children remain in carefree homes, and even in some homes, according to their principals, they have more children than they should have under the law. It should be said that this Law is quite and unfair to foster parents. Hosts are people who primarily have a lot of love for children who take under their roof and that seems to be their main qualification. To talk about the fact that foster parents are illiterate, that they are uneducated, and that this is why they should not actually get a license and should not get the right to host children is really unfair to me. First of all, in this country, foster parents share a picture of the education we have. On the other hand, I don’t think that someone with two PhDs will have more love and patience for those children than people who may have completed primary school. So what's important for foster parents is that they have enough love for those children to give them one positive environment, and what we have to do as a society is to educate them and help them learn some more things and other skills so that they can deal with children who often have very, very big traumas and those children, with one part of the children, it's certainly not easy to do. Thus, the law that says that a certain category of people is not a good foster parent actually closes the space to get more foster parents in Croatia and to place more children in foster families. Equally bad is the provision that reduces the number of users, so the number of people who can be placed in a foster home, so from 5 to 3, because it's simply a reduction in the possibility that as many children as possible go into a foster family. And now I'm going to ask a question here, for example. These are rare cases, though, but there are. You have an example. in a family home where five or I know the case here are eight children separated from the family. So eight brothers and sisters live in one home. I'm asking you now why this provision that's so rigid we're closing down space like this. to let the family take all eight children or perhaps two families who are somewhere close to sharing those children and still do not experience additional trauma. So if you're going to divide them into two or three families, that means that you're going to re-separate those children, so you're going to separate them into several families, re-send them on several sides, and re-traumaticize them by such separation. So once they had a hard time separating from their family, and now you're further separating them from each other, which is a very, very big trauma for children, and I think it's another bad provision in this law. In the end, I think we should see and professionalize still in some way the right of foster parents, because I think we have our children back in the first and second order. In carefree children's homes, about 5 to 7 thousand kunas are allocated by the state, and we now give the foster parents a thousand 460 kunas. The children have an allowance of 2 kuna a day. So we don't have the same kids here either. So we don't have the same children in our homes and those children who come into the foster home. I think we should have the same standards, our children are the same no matter where they are located. Therefore, on behalf of the SDP club, I believe that the amount for foster parents should be increased, but also know how much they are and what financial rights the child should have in order to have the same quality of life. In addition to the fact that homes can get some sponsorship, foster families can get nothing and live from what they have, and then the quality of life of these children is very questionable. Here, because of all this, once again on behalf of the SDP club, I ask that this law be withdrawn because it is harmful for foster parents and primarily for children who need to go into foster care.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89868	Thank you very much. We have three corrections. First Mrs. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89869	Thank you very much. Well, there really was a series of incorrect allegations here. I'll start in a row so much as I can. Yeah, as far as I can get. A colleague said that this law leads to the abolition of foster care, which is completely incorrect because this law becomes, for the first time trying to introduce certain standards into foster care. In fact, standards that would really help these children and foster parents to have certain conditions that they don't have today and that we don't talk about today. Less and fewer children go into the foster care of their colleagues says, which is not true, and what could be seen from this law, that despite the situation we have without law so far, two to four percent of foster care is more so which is still a slight increase than the colleague says. Second. It states that the inactivity of the social care centre is and because of this inactivity there is no foster home. It's not about inactivity. A colleague should apologize to the employees of social care centers, where there are over ten thousand who really work hard and hard...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89870	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89871	Done? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89872	Thank you very much. Correction by Mrs. Zdenka Babić Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89873	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! My colleague said this law is unfair. It's not true that this law is an unfair colleague of Opacic's. This law prescribes all the rights and obligations of the foster parent, and this is evident from the proposal that they will receive monthly compensation in addition to the other two thousand kunas and will be paid in pension and health. Oh, ma'am, my colleague! We often talk about something that can't be passed. And that's love, motherhood and responsibility. Therefore, sit back and consider what you will say in the Croatian Parliament about something you do not have the right to speak in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89874	Thank you very much. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89875	What are you praying for?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89876	I think commenting...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89877	I'm begging you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89878	Commenting on that direction as Mrs. Zdenka Babić Petricevic is not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89879	I have the right to say so, and I cannot stand as a mother and wife to speak so of love and responsibility in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89880	You don't have to. We're not going to pollemize, but with such an alumni and qualifications, I don't think it's the right thing to discuss it like that in the Parliament. That's what I'd say to anyone, and so would you colleagues. Let's move on. Another correction. Mr. Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89881	Thank you, Mr. President. So here, in a series of probably deliberately mentioned inaccuracies, it's also that this law mentions or that it has something against illiterate people and that it force a family with two PhDs, which is not true. This law requires a minimum that one of the breeders has a high school, and we know what high school is. Two-year, three-year-old schools are recognised in high school. And that minimum is certainly necessary because children still need to be led, followed. After all, children expect help, all children who go to school, and that help can still be provided by someone who has at least a minimum school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89882	On behalf of the HSU Club Mr. Representative Stephen Kozina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89883	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, gentlemen of foster care and family, ladies and gentlemen of the council! Yesterday, we discussed the Social Welfare Act, which leaves the law outside the foster home. And yesterday, the minister spoke, under the new Household Act, and proposed a series of these changes that should happen here. According to this, the Proposal for a Household Act is defined as a form of care outside the child’s own family or an adult who is provided with housing, nutrition and other care and needs. This is provided by a foster family. The proposed law regulates the conditions that must be met by a foster family and by a person who wishes to carry out that activity. The law uses the term foster family and has the following meaning. Hostage is a form of care outside of a family that provides a child or an adult with a replacement family, care in a foster family and provides the user with housing, nutrition, care, care, care for health and education, and other needs. Accommodation in a foster family in social care services is recognised as a more natural and cheaper form of care and its application is on a steady rise. According to the draft law, the foster family is the family that has been positively assessed according to the social care centre and has been granted a permit to carry out foster care. The law itself regulates the conditions that must be met by a person who wants to conduct foster care. The procedure for obtaining a household permit has been established. Hostage is a fee as well as other issues related to foster care. The law uses the term fostering, fostering, fostering, and fostering families are a form of care outside their own family to provide the user with family care. A foster family and family of foster parents and relatives with whom he lives in a joint household. The foster home is either single or representative of the foster family, with which the social care centre forms a contract for each other's rights and obligations. The foster parent must be mentally and physically healthy and have the ability to protect, protect, care, raise and meet other needs of the located user. The host must be a Croatian citizen resident in the Republic of Croatia. According to the special approval of the Ministry of Social Affairs, a foreigner may also be resident in the Republic of Croatia, if this is of particular benefit to a person or user. It is particularly important that the foster parent meets the housing and social conditions prescribed by the minister responsible for social care affairs. It is also important that the foster family must achieve its own means of maintaining a foster family of more than 20% of the amount of assistance to support users. A foster family cannot be a family in which a foster parent or another member is deprived of the right to parental care or are disturbed by family relationships, in which a foster parent or other family member is dependent on alcohol, drugs, or other intoxicating agents, prone to wandering or unadjusted behavior. A foster family cannot be a family in which mental impairment or illness would endanger the health center or other interests of the person in place, according to the assessment of the welfare center. Also, it cannot be a foster family if a family member is rightly sentenced to a crime against life and body, against morality, against marriage, against family, and against youth. The host shall not be less than 21 years of age and over 55 years of age at the time of submission of the application. The difference between a foster parent and a foster child shall not exceed 50 years and the foster parent shall have at least completed high school. A foster family can only care for one type of user, and it can accommodate three children as much as possible, unless it is for brothers and sisters to accommodate three adults. Exceptions are particularly regulated by the proposed law. The person who wants to be a foster parent submits a request to the social care centre according to the place of residence. The Centre for Social Care shall carry out the setting of conditions under this law and shall carry out an assessment of similarity for a particular type of user, issue a household permit and register the licences issued. The Centre conducts training and education. The content and duration of training and education is prescribed by the minister responsible for social care affairs. The authorisation shall be issued on time of two years and the host shall be obliged to submit an application for authorisation three months before the expiry of the authorisation. The householders' duties are primarily their own preparation and preparation of the family for the arrival of the host person, to create a plan for the accommodation of the user and to assist during adaptation to the new environment, to provide the fostered person with proper accommodation, nutrition, clothing and shoes, to provide adequate health care. The foster parent is obliged to follow the guidance of the social care centre that has made the decision on foster care, especially when it comes to children. The child needs to be provided with suitable toys, basic sports props and school and personal supplies, care for the proper attitude towards learning and work, and the acquisition of work habits as well as the creation of his own identity. Special duties of fosterers for adults are improving health and promoting and adopting certain skills in view of the remaining abilities. Promoting and adopting positive health hygiene behaviour in meeting daily needs, developing personal security, taking care of yourself in everyday situations, promoting a tendency to recreation and cultural and entertainment activities, as well as including in the life of the local community towards the needs and opportunities of users. It is mandatory to cooperate with the competent social care centre. The Centre for Social Care is required to adopt a foster care team. He is obliged to meet a foster family with the characteristics and characteristics of an adult who will be located, her former life, her health condition, the problems that exist or can be expected and the goals that are intended to be achieved with a person. The centre is obliged to act in such a way that the purpose of foster care is achieved in all cases and in the best way. After making a decision to stop the user's accommodation, the centre is to prepare a foster family for departure. The foster care contract is a written contract which, after the power of a solution and the person located in the foster home, the family shall form a competent centre and a foster home for the individual user. The Treaty lays down the rights and obligations. As far as I'm concerned, I'm in this material that we've received the Household Act on item 12, page 12.2. Personal fee to the foster home. I didn't really understand this until the end. He says, "In accordance with the applicable rules, the foster parent has the right to monthly compensation.". Are these amounting to 360% of the base, 400% of the base, 440 or a thousand 250 assets given to the foster parent, or is that the supply? ... Well, please make it right for another time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Get this thing ready together. Also, it has nothing to do with Article 27, where it speaks to the amount of personal compensation to the foster parent who takes care of children and younger adults is 100% of the basics, so that is 400 kuna, for two children located 180 or that is 720 kuna, and for three children 240 basics it is 960 kuna as far as I understand and can understand this. However, it is my suggestion and our proposal at the club is that you get in touch with this fostering association, I think they have an association or an association, or I don't know what they have, that you step in and try to arrange it in some way because these are really low prices for personal fees. And the supply, if this is a supply then it's also quite small, because if we take the price that's in the homes of the elderly and the powerless, I'm lucky we found ourselves in Varazdin in a home where the same great need for that home is. There's over 500 people waiting to get home. So also foster families can take these people because it's probably cheaper, but I think there must be some environment between you being satisfied and foster families to be satisfied. So we accept this for first reading, and we ask you to do it another time to find a common language to be satisfied with both. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89884	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS club, Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89885	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. According to data available in the Republic of Croatia, 0.52% of the population is entitled to care outside their own family. How and where to provide care for these citizens? The aim of social policy is to deinstitutionalise which imposes the need to popularise foster care. For this purpose and for the purpose of achieving that goal, we expected the Household Law because it is indeed necessary. This bill, which is before us, does not lead to this goal, so contrary to our expectations, this bill does not lead to the popularization of foster care in Croatia. That is how it always happens when laws are written away from the eyes without the participation of those to whom the law applies most. It is incomprehensible that the proposal is made without asking, and especially to respect the opinions of foster societies. So far, legal proposals have emerged from this ministry without the knowledge of trade unions, associations and others directly interested. We are convinced that the debate within the associations has been held and that all interested have given support to legal projects. It happened to us yesterday, here and from this pay phone. Mr. Minister assured us that according to this proposal of the Law, public debates had been carried out, that they had been supported by these solutions, which we immediately pointed out and proved by letters and documents of the Hosts' Union that this was not true, and as before and now it was found that no one had ever informed, in particular he had not informed or accepted the opinion of these associations. Based on these experiences, we trust foster organizations when they say that they have learned from the press that there is a Household Law in the parliamentary procedure. From their ranks came proposals to withdraw the law from the procedure. Following this, it would be wise to conduct a general debate, and then, in a regular procedure, to pass a good law based on what would really be popularized by foster care. We at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party believe that we need the Householding Act, but such a law that would be perfectly clear and fully applicable. Which they would not be able to interpret in just one way, the social care centres, the law that would give the foster parents certain legal certainty from which they would draw courage for the development of foster care. First, the Social Care Act limited the number of users by 10 per foster home. Under this regulation, foster parents invested to meet the required and prescribed conditions. They invested funds by building up and building up what was behind them and increasing of course the overhead costs. They adapted to the applicable law then, and then the number of users in one foster home is limited to 5. Hosts move users to homes most often, which is not the goal of a new social policy, and this is what we are told in the light of this bill. The aim of social policy is to accommodate the foster family, deinstitutionalisation. In contrast to this declared goal, we have a law that is based, which sets up a whole other policy. This law limits the number of users to three. So there's a re-emigration and traumatization of social care users. The foster home remains an increased cost and a missed investment. And the figures themselves say that promoting foster care isn't very successful. And that's the information from these materials that the proposer gave us. From 2003 to 2006, the number of foster families increased by only 82 families. So in 3 years, only 82 families are saying that the data is not going to that desired goal of deinstitutionalisation. The restrictions on the number of users will likely increase the number of users located in social care homes, and today there are 13 thousand 804 and only 5 thousand 877 users located in foster families. It is unclear why such measures actually encourage social care in the homes of social care, which is more expensive and more unnatural for the user, according to the applicant himself. If the desire for social care is to enable us to live in a family environment, then we need to find a model that will be encouraging for the foster parents. Of course we don't want to say that we represent the unscrupulous commercialisation of social care. We most strongly oppose all abuses that may arise. Therefore, foster care and its quality must be closely supervised by the ministry responsible for social care. However inadmissible the invaluable relationship of the foster parent to the user is, it is also inadmissible for the arbitrary chicing of the foster home by the employees of the social care centre. And this isn't an insult to anyone. These are the words of the foster family. And the problem is that this law did not, in the preparation of the law did not talk to the foster parents, did not want to listen to their problems in order to resolve the law of relations in a satisfactory way both sides and third parties. If the basis of the law has passed quality sublegal acts, if the foster parents have complied with the prescribed requirements and are therefore granted a work permit then it is simply not possible to require, in bureaucratic terms, conditions which are not prescribed anywhere, which are in practice. That the foster parents got permission to work, and then a social worker comes to them and asks for a change of conditions. It's just not possible. As this is a very sensitive category of citizens, full responsibility is needed for the foster home, but a responsible and professional relationship between the professionals of the social care centre is needed. And since the irresponsibility of the centre to the host may be shown by the fact that the centre does not provide complete documentation with a medical certificate on the health condition of the host. For example, a family member is placed in a foster family by a patient of tuberculosis. The host was not informed of this, and only when he later learned from the background of his medical examination who his user had found that the centre had available medical documentation but had not delivered it to the foster parent or warned him of the risk. Do we know what that means? This means the danger of all family members and the remaining householders who are located there. In view of the fact that there are also such failures, it is necessary by law to fully correct the obligations of the foster parent, which are the obligations of the beneficiary and which are the social care centre. The proposer quite rightly and well-foundedly states that care in foster families is cheaper in home care. Cheaper and a few times. With that in mind, it is unclear why the proposing now determines the right to compensation to the fosterer determines such a symbolic amount. And it's incorrect that it's 2,000 kuna a month plus instructions for health insurance. It's from 320 kuna to 760 kuna for adults and a little bit more for children. Therefore, if we inform the public, then we inform them and the interested ones as it really is. According to the calculation of foster care associations for one hour, the householder's work is worth 0,40 kuna or 40 limes. For these 40 lip foster parents must be a foster parent, a sociologist, a psychologist, a nurse, a nurse, a nurse, etc. Such a low fee is unpopularized by foster care. In this way, a person of younger age is not encouraged to devote himself to fostering foster care, and the proposer himself has rightly seen the need to encourage younger people of younger age. The host has the right to monthly compensation for the needs of the located user, so-called. a supply whose height is determined by the minister. It should be pointed out that the amount of the supply is inadmissiblely low in relation to the needs of the users, but also in relation to those located in institutions. The basic needs of the user must be met, it is also required by law, and satisfaction is controlled by centres. The amount of years has not changed, and today many foster parents are thinking about stopping work because they can no longer bear the costs they are exposed to. For example. all other social care users have the right to recover administrative benefits of primary and other healthcare obligations, but they do not have that right. Why would we not give this right to foster parents who work with people who are more often benefiting from medical services? If this bill had been made in cooperation with associations then the applicant would have been better informed of the needs faced by the hosts. For example, what right did the householder who concluded the contract foster the user, and then learn that he was not truly informed about the health condition of the user or some of his particulars? Let's keep in mind this case of a resident patient of TBC. In such serious cases, does a foster parent have the right to terminate a contract? We think that there is a serious reason for the termination of the contract and the law should be regulated so that in that case the fosterer can terminate the contract. Hosts are sometimes exposed to the aggression of other family members and relatives. How and how are foster parents protected in this case? Not at all. Why does this law not speak a single word about it? Furthermore, we agree in the assessment of the need for continuous education of the foster parent. The promoter says that education will be done by foster care teams, so he will be employed by 41 workers at 18 social care centres, and will provide an additional 7 million kuna for their employment. We agree that the salaries of professional workers must be solid. But neither must the householder's fee be humiliating. And this fee is humiliating. I agree, and we at HSS agree that the foundation of love is the basis of the desire for humanity to help. But this way, by determining that symbolic amount of 700 and so many kunas, the door actually closes and you can say gentlemen, so you're paid for it. They're not paid, they're humiliated. Either we pay them or we pay them or we don't humiliate those people. So, by estimating, we support the establishment of foster care teams, we welcome and finally introduce the foster home register, we welcome the introduction of strict controls on fostering activities. But we find it totally unacceptable to limit the number of users per foster parent to only 3. We can't accept a low foster care as well as a low supply. We are inadmissible from the incomplete regulation of the rights and obligations of fosterers, users and social care centres. We therefore remain with our proposal to hold a general debate now, and then to have the competent ministry approach the draft Household Act in cooperation with host associations. Because I note this law does not lead to the objective of deinstitutionalisation but rather leads to the opposite goal, which is institutionalisation. I'd like to point out that it's not just the householder's problem. I was talking about a second category of needed social care yesterday, and these are addicts who are also increasingly staying in institutions because of compensation, which is not the objective of social policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89886	Thank you. At 10 and 10, it's past 10 minutes. We have one correction, Madame Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89887	Listen, repeating the truth puts this lie at risk of becoming true. And the truth is, this law was passed without discussion by associations or interested parties. In this debate, discussions were held in Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek, Trogir, Zadar, Varazdin, Daruvar, Rovinj. The meetings were attended by experts from social care institutions, social care homes and social care centres. Also, discussions and discussions with foster organizations have been held, which have in principle supported the adoption of the Household Law as the first law, which regulates in a more quality way the traditional way of childcare. And as for this fee, Madam Representative, for not giving compensation when you were, you were not giving compensation, this government is giving compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89888	We have one, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89889	I appeal to the breach of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Articles 209 and 214 because my representative corrects his incorrect allegations, and this is about the debate carried out. ... /The speaker went off./... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If the debate was conducted as a fellow MP claims, then today we would have to tell the Alliance of the Hosts of the Republic of Croatia that it is not telling the truth, that they are not telling the truth. And it seems to me that the gentlemen upstairs at the gallery think differently because they're witnessing that they just haven't consulted on it...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89890	Please nice, please nice. You did not correctly use this institution to injure the Rules of Procedure, because Mrs. Carmela Caparin presented the data by disproved your opinion, your data and opinions. So you had no reason to lift this table. I'll get over this now. We'll react differently next time. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89891	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of the ministry with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed this Proposal for a Household Act and I would really like to highlight all the praises of the Government that regulates fosterhood for the first time by one special law, bearing in mind that we have a really long 105-year tradition and that for the first time try to standardise something to introduce better conditions for both the user and the foster parent. Despite this second tradition in certain areas of our country, foster care is still relatively poorly developed, especially in the southern regions of the Republic of Croatia, unlike Zagreb, Vrbovac and the surrounding areas and northern areas. Therefore, we believe that this debate will also contribute to the sensitisation of foster care. Unfortunately, the foster parents are now between 40 and 60 years old, only 20% are below 40 years old, but it really is about people who are loving, who are full of warmth and understanding in that part of the job. According to UNICEF, the United Nations Fund for Children in the Republic of Croatia has a thousand and 550 children who grow up in institutions because they are their biological parents, because their biological parents cannot care for them. It is truly commendable that UNICEF’s action needs a family and that seven counties after their action have established county support centres as a pilot project for promoting foster care and increasing the number of foster families. Of course, our goal by 2009 is to increase the number of users, to reduce institutions by 25%. Many studies have shown the harmfulness of staying in institutions for the youngest children, and even for those children, such a stay in institutions is equated with neglect. In some parts the average stay of children in homes is 4 and a half to 7 years. Today, new guidelines are deinstitutionalisation, i.e. increasing the number outside the institutional forms of care as a temporary form of care as a future child cannot live in the biological family he should have. Outside of institutional care in foster families is more quality than in institutions, and indeed these people take care of these children for 24 hours. It's human, natural and congratulating. In 2006, 5 thousand 877 people were placed in foster families. Every year, the trend is indeed in slight growth, only 2 to 4%, and we believe that there will be more what it says further about the lack of public sensibility for foster care. The foster family is a replacement family and it has an educational and educational function which is different from foster families for the elderly whose share is increasing and 78% are powerless and mentally ill. The number of foster parents without adequate school is 49.36%, which really points to the need for additional education, and it is incorrect that this Law speaks of illiteracy, so I will read what it says. The number of foster parents who are without a school with an incomplete primary school and complete primary education makes up as much as 49.36% of current foster parents. This educational structure points to the need for continuous education and daily support to fosterers who care for the needs of such children. Me and the HDZ club don't think high school, that college means that this child will have a happier childhood. No, I don't. But we think that these people have to be educated, because it's often about mentally ill people, because it's often about physically and mentally damaged people. Therefore, a certain education is required. Not just them, but people who work in welfare centers. The law regulates conditions that must be met by a person who wants to deal with foster care as well as provisions under which a foster family cannot be a family. In foster families, there can be up to three children who are considered members of the Croatian Democratic Community Club to increase the quality of care for those children. However, since we have yet another reading, we think that we might consider increasing the number of these children 4 or if it is related family that can be of course more. The law regulates the rights and obligations of fosterers for children and adults as well as the obligations of social care centres. In particular, it is necessary to establish a register of foster families, a register of foster families and a register of located users for all categories of users. Namely, if you were walking around the field you saw that there was one chaos, that the register was gone and that you had families that had twenty children, that you had families where you didn't even know the address of those children where they were, and I was also a witness that many were used for heavy physical affairs. In the future, we believe that institutional housing of children will be increasingly rare except when it is in the interest of the child and that the number of foster families will be greater. Ready to provide replacement family care in the foster home. In particular, we welcome the establishment of foster care teams that determine the fulfilment of the prescribed conditions for the provision of foster care, the assessment of the likeness of a family to deal with foster care, the granting of permits, the implementation of foster care education, the provision of professional assistance, the conduct of the family supervisory work, and the constant monitoring of the work of foster families. The education must also be mutual in terms of the welfare centres and the teams and families of the adoptors, or the child. Members and members of the Croatian Democratic Community Club pointed to finding opportunities in the future and increasing personal fees as well as maintenance fees in line with opportunities and in line with the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, we are truly pleased by the regulation of concerns outside our own family by a special law with the help of social care centres and civil organisations. Any praise for the public debate as I have said and for having been held with foster organisations who have in principle supported the adoption of this Law and have made the need for better co-operation with social care centres, and in this sense it is agreed to hold meetings between social care centres that have developed foster care and foster care. The association's observations also referred to the number of users, the inability to carry out professional foster care and the amount of compensation. Surely this Law is an introduction to something that we will continue to discuss exactly what these people, these foster parents, were saying. That's why any commendation like this to a bill that we can in the future and complete and bring in others, but without law, it's inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89892	Thank you. We have two corrections. First is Mrs. Ljubica Lalic's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89893	So I'm correcting the quote of a colleague who insists that this law will lead to deinstitutionalization. And now I'm stating the data that deny such information and that's the data from these materials. So, home accommodation in 2005 was 13 thousand 756, and in 2006, 13 thousand 804 which is an increase for 48 users. And accommodation in foster families in 2005 was 5 thousand 872, and in 2006, 5 thousand 877, which is an increase of only 5 users. At such a rate we do not really go towards deinstitationalisation but we are now supporting this institutionalisation both in this way and through fees or supplies because fosterers do not cover neither costs nor costs, let alone work fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89894	Correction of the incorrect allegations by Mrs. Representative Vesna Škare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89895	I am correcting the incorrect quote of colleague Caparin, who said that by reducing the number of protégés to three, the quality of the accommodation would be increased. And that's not true, because now the foster parents have to meet quality accommodation, they have to meet all the conditions for quality accommodation either for five, three or ten. Therefore, it simply does not stand, but I welcome this announcement so that the number until the second reading could return to five.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89896	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the club HSP, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89897	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Well, the HSP club primarily holds on to the issue of foster care and issues that are relevant in the draft of this law so that we should not politicise and deal with political issues. In fact, this is a question where we think it can be solved by consensus between the government, representatives of associations, or the Alliance of Associations and our representatives, to reach the most qualitative and optimal solutions in order to meet what needs to be satisfied. And to set clear criteria and criteria on the one hand, to lay down the rules of conduct and also to resolve all these other issues for which the associations are seeking it. The truth is next. The same or similar problems were for the former coalition authorities as they are for the current authorities. So obviously that's not where what we want to do is done, so if we go to do something like that, let's do it right, without saying politicizing, politics, and putting out some cases and situations that are basically just throwing away and a negative picture, and that's what we're dealing with today with the question of foster care or pre-election campaigning and politicizing. It is obvious that no proposals and remarks can be accepted by those who were in power by the end of 2003, or until the end of 2003, but it is right to say and what the Alliance or the Association of Hosts have said, that this government has waited for a long time and that what it has offered is not what they expected. That's true. That's not what they expected, and they're right when they say that it seems to them to solve this problem on the principle of breaking over the knee. We can't talk about the data that a full public debate has been held, that the objections and proposals of the Alliance of Associations have been heard, when we see that they haven't. When we see that they are not and when we have here, all of us clubs have received objections and suggestions from the alliances that aim to correct the text of the law to get a law that will be applicable and enforceable. So, on the one hand, we need to be deeply concerned when we see how many children are located in foster families or how many people are concerned when we take up to 18 years of age and over 65 years of age. So, there are trends in society that are obviously not good and throwing, and they have to make us solve all these problems, but on the principle of trying to organise a public debate and everything else. Now, according to us at the HSP club here, there are two options for solving this problem. If the Government as a Proposer can guarantee that, together with the Alliance of Associations, the text of a law that will satisfy is what we are talking about today, then we could vote for this law to pass the first reading. If we have such a guarantee from the government. So, to sit down with representatives of associations or the Alliance of Associations, all the issues that are mentioned here and there are many questions, I think they can be very elegant and easily solved so that they can get a system of foster care in Croatia that will be satisfactory and will primarily take care of those who need to be cared for. Not about political and other party motives, but about those to be cared for. If you can do that, if you can say it publicly then we are prepared to support this law in the first reading. If you're not ready to do this, and obviously you haven't done it so far because in this dispute between the government and the Alliance of Associations, we trust the associations more. We trust the associations more because it's a clear situation for us. If it weren't for that, people wouldn't even be writing or asking for meetings with representatives of individual clubs. So, please make it clear, are you ready to listen constructively, systematically to all the comments and suggestions and these are really quality suggestions and quality remarks of the Alliance of Associations? If it is then let us agree to make the text of the law together and bring it in October or September this year, finally to resolve this issue. And given the fees and all that is related and the material status of all those, because yet these people, these associations mean these foster parents are those who give love to those children, when we talk first of all about children who are replacing the family with replacements and who are giving and they need to be thanked for a really, full contribution, everything that happens in a certain way and where the state has failed. Then those people jump in. So let's be kind to these people. They're far better aware of the problem, they're with children, they're with the people they care about every day, than the representatives of the government and everyone else. They know far better problems, but in order not to have a variety of machinations, there aren't many, but it means to set the rules clearly, to monitor, all conditions must exist, but we can't say now if someone with an eight-year-old school was a foster parent and he was loving those kids, everyone's satisfied, he can't suddenly say, now, you have to have high school. One can have three colleges but has no love, no love for children, and we see such examples every day unfortunately. No love for children, what's it worth? It's not worth anything. So let's not make up hot water when you don't need invented hot water. Or this part of raising the age limit and everything else. So these are all the remarks that are lifelike, people who do this, who know it, so let's give and listen, let's not represent ourselves in the Croatian Parliament, let's not represent ourselves, let's represent Croatian citizens, look after these people and those who care about them. So that's the only solution to this problem, and I don't think that we really should politicise this issue more and deal with political pre-election competition than let's solve one problem after another, so then surely Croatian citizens will have more confidence in us. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89898	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89899	I'd like to correct my colleague Kovacevic, who is talking about politicization. The Croatian Democratic Community does not really politicise with this law. So far we've had no law, for the first time we've passed the law. And what I'm saying is that this law is constructive, it's detailed in terms of foster care that you can see. Therefore, specialised teams are set up, fosterers are provided with personal compensation, the number of users is reduced, the general special obligations of foster parents are regulated, the obligations of centres are regulated, etc. As for parents without school, parents who don't have high school and don't have children in foster care won't go to school. Under this law they remain, and the number of children they had and the school they had.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89900	Second correction by the esteemed representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89901	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Pero Kovacevic has reminded us here several times actually how we are in the pre-election year. We know that, and I don't think there's any need to stop, that we don't need to be reminded of that. And I'm correcting his inaccuracies when he says that HDZ is politicizing. Well, that's exactly the incorrect quote because this is the law in the first reading. So, there's time. So, all those who are not satisfied with this law, the debate is open, let them come, let them bring their proposal, let them participate, let them create. So what you're doing, so it's really politicizing by pre-determining a good document that's wrong, that's not worth it. The other thing is, you said how, what's the use when someone doesn't have love. So there... measure love. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't understand it, if there's a measure of love. It's politicizing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89902	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89903	Your Honor, Mr. President, I ask you to follow Article 214. My colleague fixed something I didn't say at all. I did not say that HDZ is politicizing, but I said that the debate so far is that everyone is politicizing this issue and that we at the HSP Club are pushing to discuss the basis rather than political matters. And around the campaign when she started I didn't say, it started at the ninth month of last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89904	How come you didn't say you were politicizing?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89905	But you weren't in the assembly. He came in later.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89906	I was. I listen to you very carefully. I'm following closely. The HSLS Club is a respected representative of Zlatko Kramarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89907	Dear Mr. President, the honorable representatives of the government, the ministries, colleagues and colleagues. Nice greeting to our guests at the gallery. It is not easy to speak now when fellow Kovacevic set these very sharp differences between politics, between love as if politics did not have to include the element of love. I think that the right policy would have to guide this very important emotion, especially when we're talking about this law. We at the HSLS club actually always... We see that some areas of our everyday life are being arranged, obviously some areas of our daily life are not fully regulated, we bring some of the standards to which time guides us, and I think that it is precisely this proposal of the Household Act that needs to be read, because if, as a form of care outside our own family, only seven articles of the Social Care Act and a rule on the conditions for the provision of foster care, and yet we all here agree on a very important form of care for those of our weaker subjects of society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then it is obvious that these only seven articles and that regulation are not sufficient and that it is necessary to pass a quality Household Law. I say, that is why we think that this very first reading provides all these opportunities to reach a certain compromise between what the legislator proposes, what we are going to do here as representatives of this House of Representatives and just those who are also directly interested can find those solutions that would really rightly regulate this important area. It has already been said here many times that the priority task of passing this law is this deinstitutionalisation of care and popularization of foster care, which enables its users to have more quality and natural living conditions which, due to a large number of protégés, cannot be provided to them by the institutions of the social care centre. And it's really that very right then that noble idea that we really try is exactly Fuko wrote a book on supervision and punishment and exactly the institution, and such institutions always have this repressive character in them. Where and where it is really better to have these weak beings, weak subjects, try to place them in an ambience that is wherever and where warmer and which has no repressive character as they have it, in the most beautiful sense of that word when I say it is simply an institution produces this one and control and then certainly some sanction if certain rules of conduct are violated. On the other hand, it is commendable that the provisions of this law will establish expert fostering teams whose task should be to conduct foster education, provide professional support to fosterers, carry out their supervisory, monitor their work, family legal and criminal legal protection and similar protection. That's what an institution should actually belong to if we're already deciding on a double approach like this. And we think that the creation of these teams will allow not only better quality work for foster parents and the discharge of social care centres but we hope that this could lead to a certain number and a reduction of unemployed professionals on the Croatian labour markets, what we read and read that... The draft law provides for the employment of about 40 new professionals in the eighteen social care centres that work in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's some shift in this story. And hopefully that's what's gonna happen. However, despite the fact that the adoption of this law after a hundred years of household tradition in Croatia is a positive fact, we at the club warn of some of its shortcomings that I think can be corrected by another reading and correction. If we really want foster care to remain one of the leading ways of providing social care and that its deinstitutionalisation of users should really be made possible, then a person, a mother who does so despite the human character of their work for such work, should also be paid accordingly. And it's certainly that and, and that fact is actually necessary that, in order for this system to function as well. Need to increase foster benefits i.e. The provision and personal fees of the foster parents stems from the fact that stricter conditions for obtaining licences, permission for foster care, and, in addition, those fees should not be permanent, equal for the entire period of foster care, and should be adjusted to the cost of living, to the minimum personal income of the fosterer, to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia that would be adjusted each year. So... You don't have the one, the one, the one to bring in the one, and then that's it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By the way, let's just... What we want it to really become is an ambience of one, one of the heat that really escapes from this one repressive system that provides us with an institution of the type of center for social care, then it really needs to be provided in some way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then to put it this way, the appropriate fee is really important. Given that the goal of foster care and the adoption of this law is to allow for a better life for those who are in such a form of care, it is clear that the foster parent needs to meet certain criteria in order to do so. But we believe in our club that there is a certain discrepancy between the individual items of this law and the goals that it aims to achieve. Article 6 provides that a foster parent who takes care of children must have at least completed high school. It will, I say we're not sure that it's actually, that this is the most important provision that's exactly what we're talking about here and that, of course, at the heart of our interest should be this love that exists and that those who, today are already dealing with this business that they really don't necessarily... Because nowhere does it really say that for, that high school necessarily produces, produces and these love effects, but still it's good to actually, that this meaning these expert teams should be to raise that and educational, educational standard but not to insist on it, not insist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's just stick to it like a drunk float. Since there are a large number of foster parents in Croatia who, regardless of the lack of education, have done this job and should be very successful and responsible in their cases, should ignore this provision, and further care should be conditioned by education in professional teams. That's exactly what this situation is about, to kind of confirm it, and just in a way for those who are thinking about dealing with it in some way, this education with expert teams at the welfare center needs to be conditioned. Furthermore, Article 7 states that a foster family can only care for one type of users, which is certainly discrimination against children with special needs. And I just... These standards are precisely what it is today, which according to that category must really be treated in no way, in any way we must not get them and we must not create these, and differences and we do not see any reason to really, that the foster family does not really care about either of the other children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think it really has any, no reason that it's not good and it just really shows that we can't overcome those paradigms that we inherited from. I say today, with precisely, according to these weakest subjects, these special-needed entities also need to be very careful, not only in expression but then to make that statement, to turn it into concrete behavior. Children's foster parents should be able to join the family at the same time with children with special, conditionally speaking, normality is no longer that, is not that different feature. If, according to the expert team's assessment, they have appropriate abilities and most motivations, motivations to do their job and do it. Furthermore, many objections came from the associations because of Article 8 which prescribes that a foster family can be housed for up to three children. The existing provision allows for five. We heard the same thing yesterday, they say in Sweden, in Sweden, that actually that number is even more reduced and that in some ways it is considered this or what would be ideal if it were just not one, two children. Although our opportunities are still not as Swedish and we think that what, in some sense of ours, we don't think that at this point three or five that something very important is, and here I think that the legislator should take care of it. I say that although proper child rearing requires a lot of love and patience, there is no reason for such a drastic reduction in the number of protégés in the family, and if a foster family is motivated and meets the appropriate conditions, there is no reason not to allow it. Since this law also aims to keep the adoption process going as short as possible. For persons who need care as quickly as possible to find their refuge, the law should also regulate the time period during which the social care centre is obliged to inform the potential fosterer or applicant of the requirement to carry out the foster care in fulfilling or failing to meet the conditions for that exercise, that job. And right here for the end, just to avoid exactly this unnecessary nervousness and politicization actually at the end of the kids, to avoid, I'm not saying it was intensity. But obviously we don't have to remind anyone right now that we are, that we are in the pre-election year and that indeed, that everything, that everything is politics and that it's personal politics and that children are politics. That we are trying to read to another particular observation that I think is, above all, well-intentioned, that they are in that function and, that category of love and emotion, and that, indeed, as a society in some way, we realize that it is the same segment of our society without which it cannot get the characteristics of a modern European noble human exactly that such intensity in society and we, by this law, can support. And I hope that by the second reading and the legislator of the law, I say certain remarks and that we will have one law that will just fulfill the meaning of the law. That one area that isn't fully regulated so far is that we're trying to regulate it, regulate it exactly in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89908	Thank you. State Secretary Dorica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89909	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, respected members of the association. Well, here I was after I saw that the clubs had expressed their views on the Household Act in the first reading. Of course there's a fight here. This has not been resolved on the world or let's say at European level. Coming from a world conference in Den Haag on childcare outside their own family and coming from Berlin from the European Union Ministerial Conference which, one of the topics was also care outside parenting, childcare outside parenting or institutionalisation, deinstitutionalisation. It is evident that there is a struggle and that there is not one unique attitude. So when we look at where Croatia is and where Croatia is in this context, then we can say that there really are few countries that have 105 years of tradition of foster care. And all these disputes that we here now and the challenges that are heard here are also heard in such forums and there is actually no unique attitude whether practically fostering is purely humanitarian work or it's professionalization. Some of them claim to be unprofessional, that's out of the question. Other speeches can't just depend on humanitarian work. So here is Croatia between its 105-year tradition in foster care and variously developed foster care in the Republic of Croatia where it must be recognised that the continental and northern parts of Croatia have more developed fostering than whether it is a coastal part, starting from Istria to Dubrovnik. Therefore, wanting to actually get more of what you mentioned in your discussions, 4, more than 7 articles in the Social Care Act, because we think that every tradition Croatia has should be supported and step forward in the 21st century. And therefore, in fact, this Household Act is for the first time practically Croatia has about fostering the law. Why the Law on fostering children and fostering adults, why one? Well, because it's known that every country that holds onto itself actually respects its tradition. Therefore, we can also have a Law on fostering children and the Law on adult fostering because we have been in practice for 105 years. So let us not break what is good in practice, or lose, but let us do so as best. So in order to do what is better, of course, that we have talked to foster organizations that are created daily, new associations are created daily, associations of associations are created and therefore here I have a complete list of how and how the Ministry of Health and Social Care has spoken to foster organizations. So not since yesterday and not the last month, but exactly over a year. So on March 28, 2006, all the associations were aware that there would be work and that there would be a proposal and that we would go to the Household Act. And the fact that the associations themselves are actually here is the record here is also their signatures, all that they chose the same article that had a practical article that worked in the working group. Also during construction, when we made the first draft that went to the government, several meetings were with the associations. We could, and someone said right here to bid each and every one of us with our own association, and I know that neither the MPs nor anyone in the ministry can think of it. But we could also lift the papers of those associations that this law supports here. So I think it really is to sit down together and seriously talk that something that has really been in Croatia by now, practically as far as humanitarian work was exclusively humanitarian work and when we looked and looked from where we actually started from 8, we had these 7 articles from the law, from where to go practically what to do and how to call and talk to associations. We came up with a declaration written in 2001. And that's the first time we've made a declaration together with all the associations, and even with the gentlemen sitting upstairs, we've read together and agreed in Koprivnica a year ago and a few would that be the starting point for a future law. And they all said how lucky it would be if we practically adopted it. However, today, when we look at that 2001 declaration and this law, we see that there is much more in it than was required by the declaration at that time. No one sitting here nor from the representatives of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare will say that this law is ideal, that it cannot be completed. This is the first reading and practically this is what is real and possible in Croatia today. Real and possible. We are fully aware that this law is done in the election year. We are fully aware that there may be promises of compensation, of supply to the sky, of the ceiling, but we must also understand that the real possibilities of this moment are as they are. If the possibilities are shown to be greater than any obstacles in this law, there will be no provision, any compensation will be increased because both are linked to the basis from, practically from which all social care benefits are calculated. As far as the license hearing is concerned. Well, of course, licenses are given for what form the foster parent will practically take care of. If we're going to do something different, we can agree, but then we have to have the whole system and all the other practical fosterings, which means we in Croatia don't just have foster care for children and parental care. We've got more shape, we've got the SOS village, we've got the guys' new photo, we've got family homes. So if you have more than 5 you can, you have the possibility of legally having a family home. What is now most propagating in Italy, what they call "Casa familia", those for such a foster home and for such foster parents are looking for an exclusively high level of expertise. So we can talk about that too. Why is there a medium professional cookout mentioned here? Well, because Croatia is preparing to make the middle expert prepare mandatory. Therefore, it is only and exclusively for those who will be new foster parents, so foster parents who are now working will not be taken professionally or taken from them, nor will the number of children be taken. Therefore, it is all clear and loud in the provisions. Nothing for existing foster parents is changed by this law. Only for them are they expressing a desire in the future to be foster parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89910	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89911	Here's the thing, I have three shorter corrections of incorrect allegations. The first false assumption is that all associations were notified. They were not informed, they made a public statement. And I ask you next time don't selectively invite associations within the alliance but call them all who are until the time you do the law registered, logically. The second you said that nothing in this law is real anymore and is not possible. It's a shame you didn't listen to the minister yesterday, your resolute boss, who still left the possibility of professionalizing and increasing the number of protégés. So he left room to see things until the second reading. Therefore, there is no need to claim so decadently anything is possible, nothing is real, because simply that, however, is possible and realistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89912	Second correction, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89913	Your Honor, Mr. President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of the secretary of state who said that a public debate was being held that the foster parents and associations were familiar. Here's a quote from the description of the Federation of the Hosts of the Republic of Croatia which says the Hosts' Union believes that the draft law has been passed without consulting the foster parents, with people who can most warn about the problems of the life of the protégés and foster parents. During the presentation, it is a presentation which is not a public debate, which is a mix of terms, we have submitted our comments and suggestions on the draft, the ministry has disobeyed our proposals and remarks. None of our proposals are included. Therefore, let us not say that a public debate is being held when it is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89914	Third correction, respected representative Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89915	Thank you. So I'm correcting the inaccuracies of Mrs. Secretary of State who says this law is the realisation of a possible one. Madam Secretary of State, we think it's possible much more, but that's why we're no longer looking for additional funds, but we're pointing to the possibility and need to redistribute those funds that are intended for that purpose. We have not heard a logical and convincing explanation so far, which makes the provision or costs of accommodation in the homes a few times bigger than those located in family homes or foster homes. So if we were to redistribute here, then we would go to this goal of deinstitutionalisation. I don't know who's in the interest of protecting maybe some bad moves by some institutions and institutions that actually get a quota that suits them regardless of the number of protégés. Let's think about making that redistribution, and then we'll come up with more opportunities with the same means.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89916	Next correction, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89917	I would correct the incorrect allegations when Mrs. Dorica Nikolic said it was justified to have different licences. Namely, a householder who gets a license and can only get one license to house children with special needs can only accommodate such children. It's pure ghettoization. Children with special needs should be placed in a different environment with other children, so we therefore single out and further getoise those children, and therefore we should edit the area differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89918	And respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89919	It is incorrect that Mrs. Secretary claims that she still has some support from foster associations. That's just not true. All the public is familiar with the written media through electronic media. You have not been able to turn on television and radio in the last days where all associations did not rise up and protest against such a single Household Act, and if you do not know yesterday, the activists of the Croatian Federation of Hosts who are gathering 14 foster associations protested against this Proposal for the Household Act because they did not respect any of their comments. In addition, you claim that real opportunities are not to increase such benefits for foster parents. Namely, today's fees are too small, a thousand 520, a thousand 680 kuna, and you need to know that such a child institution costs 4 to 6 times more. So the real possibilities exist, and you claim they don't exist. You can only claim that you don't know and that you won't, but the real possibilities and the fact that it costs the institution, and how much you give the foster parents, it's obvious that there's a lot of room there.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89920	An individual debate. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89921	Thank you, Mr. President, State Secretary and Associates, members of the Association. Here we have heard here and yesterday we are reminded that our foster home has a long tradition of 105 years. I think it's really an important segment of concern outside of your own family which is certainly both more human and cheaper and more acceptable than being placed in an institution. In fact, our social care reform is going into deinstitutionalisation, and this deinstitutionalisation is about to promote fosterhood. If that's such an important segment here, it also shows that let's say our two families that now care, those 2,000 and 675. The truth is that, if that number were to grow modestly and we would like it to grow much more, but still 2 thousand and 675 foster families to care for 19,000 and 681 people who are fostered, while here we have that in 69 state homes there are 8 thousand and 503 users, that in homes owned by foreign or domestic natural and legal persons 15 thousand 275 and in homes to which they are transferred, where the right of ownership, or management, is transferred to the counties of 10 thousand 175. And when we add it all together, that's about 33,000. So here we see how many of these institutions that really cost more than just 14,000 more people than the foster families are 2,000 and 650. So you can see how much more acceptable this form means, how much cheaper it is for society, and how much more humane it is for the user. When we look at these tables that we get in the materials about the number of users, we see that really when they really are growing, they are modestly increasing from 2 to 4%. I say we would love and our aspirations are certainly safe and the intensity of this law is to increase that number. What surprised me here so little is that the number of children when it comes to the number of children then the number increases less than when it comes to adults, which would seem to be the other way around. What I would like to point out in particular, which I think is good, which is really good to have an increased number of people who are physically and mentally damaged adults, that their number in foster care is growing, because we know that such persons are still quite stigmatized in our society. We've got psychically ill people, adults, and they're also their numbers, they're being held at the same level, but older and powerless we've seen since 2003 thousands and 530, and now we've got 1,000 and 900. So that number is still increasing in adults, I don't know why, which is why we don't have a stronger shift in children, even though I would say it the most. When we talked yesterday about amending the Social Care Act, then it was said that it would respect regional differences, which is certainly necessary when we talk about our Slavonia, Eastern Slavonia where I come from, the Vukovar-Srijem County where living conditions are far more unfavourable. And there can't be any sure when we use social censorship and then let's say all that property or anything else, it's far less valuable than on other ends. I mean, if someone has a house that's bigger than they need, then they can't cash it while it's in other parts. But in this kind of foster care, I see the possibility that even in our neighborhoods, people simply mean that besides what they're doing, good job, human work, a useful job to be able to get something from here, something to supply, that they might be able to provide life support. When we talked about these fees, it certainly shouldn't, perhaps, be here in the debates now to demean it all. We've had so much supply and we've had foster parents again. I, too, know some wonderful foster parents who take care of their children, take care of the children they fostered as if they were their own. They're having their birthday parties, their crises and everything. And indeed they deserve all praise and encouragement. But now certainly that this personal fee, I would be happier the same if it were bigger. I'm sure the foster parents deserve it. But here, it may have started with caution at first and that these fees will certainly need to be increased. When we talk about housing in the home, about some kind of institution, then it certainly is incomparably more expensive. However, we cannot forget that these institutions are far more expensive and that we certainly cannot even it out, but that differences can be less and should be less, I certainly advocate. And I would also like to say that when we talk about these facilities, the stationers, means homes in any ownership, then the tendency of this social care reform is precisely to make the number of home users smaller, and to increase in all other aspects starting with the daily, half-day stay of the foster home or in the home. When it comes to others, certainly especially to stress this, that social care centres will be teams especially for foster parents. That's very good, and I think that here, in addition to hiring professional workers, this really will be better covered, that these teams will be training and educating the foster parents. It's supposed to be here in two years, a little bit from the center they told me, maybe that education should be better and more often. And when you talk here about high school, is that it, it's just about kids. So if you want to host the children and it's said that one, that a foster representative means someone in that house should have a high school, so I think even though our current structure is when we look at this table, we see that over 49% of those who don't have or have a primary school and that. But I don't think that's gonna be any obstacle to further foster care. When it comes to these numbers of members, we see that they were, we were 10, so then we started at 5, so now it's at 3. That would leave here, even for further negotiation, could that be 4? But I understand this tendency, if someone wants to have more children or persons of adults, that they can then start a family home and then practice it professionally. And I think it might actually be a good thing to develop a professionalism and in that sense, which will certainly provide a better service to those who need such a service. It is good that the rights of both foster parents and the center are regulated and that more order will certainly be introduced. We would never again like to see pictures of those who are packed in one room and who are domestic and where they are treated in an unworthy way. It's certainly good to have a foster home register. That must be a useful shift. And I, in this law, really think that a useful contribution to the development of foster care, which will make our foster care more popular, promote, and that it will certainly achieve better results, is a greater number of foster parents, which is a very good goal for us. And certainly until the second reading of all these remarks and possible proposals of associations, I here when it's said that associations and not consulted, I know the procedure of how it all goes, I know that everyone is informed but, perhaps some have not seen it themselves, but in any case the association, all associations and all those who are interested should listen and obey and agree with them. And in the end, we will surely get a law that will be an important incentive to foster what is our goal and our goal. And that maybe you'd just end up saying, when I asked from our Center for Social Care in County to see how many foster parents we have, although we're saying, in County, a small County neighborhood, we have something and more than that, then we see that the current situation, that we have for children and youngsters 19 foster parents and adults 14. A total of 33 relative to needs and possibilities are certain to be a small number. And we say once again, we expect this law to make a positive move in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89922	Replica is a respected representative of Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89923	Thank you very much. Here, a colleague, Ruža Lelic, spoke about propagating foster care, about how many families receive children in foster care. The State Secretary also spoke about the fact that in the south of Croatia, there are far fewer families involved in this business, thus expressing their humanity. Well I would certainly like to point out that surely, the inhabitants of southern Croatia are nothing less human than the residents of northern Croatia, but simply not a tradition in the south. And that is why I believe that there is a great role of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and primarily of the social care centre in this area, to inform the public in their field of what is needed and what for those children means staying in the family, living in the family and not in the institution. And that is why I think that the adoption of this law is very important in this part of Croatia's southern part, the coast of Croatia, to propagate foster care and that these children get family care rather than the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89924	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89925	Thank you, colleague Brnadić. So I'm just like you said that in our area here, there are foster parents and our welfare centers think we have more than in some other environments, but that number certainly is insufficient, 33 of them. I certainly don't think that in some parts of the world people are less human because they don't have developed foster care. It's simple and here it is, as you yourself said it may be a tradition or simply, or not popular enough, not sufficiently highlighted. I, too, was surprised to say in Zagreb County, the City of Zagreb and here, when it is also in Varazdin County, Koprivnica-križevska that the most fostering is where there are, also where there are higher standards, that there is more in foster care, which I think is not related to either one, but that it is simple to one tradition. We need to see here, try all together to further highlight fosterhood, even more recommend it, interpret it, and to say next to this of our positive that it has in it as a work of human, usefulness and that someone also sees its own way of existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89926	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89927	So the respected colleague, Lelic, on several occasions whether it was inadmissible, did she deliberately break into the heart of this law or care for children without proper family care. She said several times that this system is cheaper, that the state is going to save on it, that here we will be more rational and that I do not therefore consider that caring about children without proper family care can not be the only objective of this law to be spared. I thought we were passing a law to improve that concern, so to give these children the level of care they have for children who are placed in institutions. So we can't go after those kids who, unfortunately for one reason or another, can't have a family like the other kids or who the state cares about in the way that they care about institutions. Unfortunately, this law neither defines it nor regulates it. Thus, he does not go after improving the care of children who are outside the institution or who are in foster families or the elderly, nor solve the status of foster parents. Therefore, neither of them is resolved in this case, and in particular is not resolved by the discriminatory attitude of the state towards children in Croatia because children who are located in foster families are treated by the state as a stepmother and what the state does not care about these children then the altruism is replaced by foster parents who solve everything and what the state does not solve unlike where the state fully and very expensively takes care of children in institutions. Even here, we have a huge difference because a child who is located in a home in one country stands out 6 thousand kunas for a child who is located in another home of the state is one of over 11,000 kunas. Thus, the state cannot treat one child as a wasteful mother and to another child who is placed in a foster family as a stepmom. And the law should go after the state to ensure the same quality of social care for its children regardless of whether they are located in foster families, therefore non-institutionalally or located in certain institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89928	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89929	Well, you've totally twisted it here. I'm just saying that this kind is more humane, that it's both cheaper and more affordable and nobody said that the law is passed with a tendency to save those children, and so that I don't say stupidity, and that the state is acting on this basis to someone like a stepmom to children here because they're located in foster families. The tendency to reform social care in which I am a member of a group in Vukovar-Srijem County is deinstitutionalisation and deinstitutionalisation foresees both fostering and other visions, daily, half-day and all, and that exactly the smallest number of children and adults who will be placed in a home. Normally, they will always be but it will be necessary that the smallest number and that is actually due to the improvement of quality and to improve it and not at all, you are now saying that the law is passed in order to save on these children. Well, I think that's for sure in the end the foster parents don't do it exclusively for profit and profit, they do it for love, for humanity and for various other things. So you wanted to show both the law and my debate in a completely different tone that doesn't fit this truth at all and the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89930	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vesna Škare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89931	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry. Somehow they all started from a long tradition of 105 years of fostering tradition. So here we can now conclude that after 105 years we have received the first bill in this House. Despite this long tradition, however, it seems to me that the institution of foster care did not develop properly. First of all, this refers to the number of foster parents who are still for such a long tradition very low. The age of foster parents is very high, economic possibilities for foster parents and in areas where such a form of care is the most developed, very diverse and unequally distributed throughout Croatia. So we can thank foster families for the accommodation of children without adequate parental care or mental and physical harm. Unfortunately, this Household Law proposal is not on the trail of this so-called hundred-year tradition. We have the law but it is practically not what standards and needs and fosterers should be followed, but also those who receive services, so the protégé. Not only did the promoter not agree with associations and the foster union but he did not follow the international conventions very well, so the result is that this law is a little weak, a little stronger foster function. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child gives priority to family forms of care and only if institutional care is necessary. The Convention points out that the life of a child in an institution also leads to social exclusion and leaves permanent emotional damage especially for the youngest. Now, this standard in Croatia, or the main rule of foster care, has so far been a major exception. Which is bad parts or weak parts of the law to say so because the law also has very good elements. The weak parts or the bad parts of the law are reducing the number of protégés in foster families from five to three, and before that they were ten to five, they are given small provisions and benefits for foster parents who are not worthy of normal and let alone quality life. And now that we're talking about that famous money the state spends money. Are these money in state institutions that care about children and adults or are in foster families? It's a question now, there's money, there's definitely only a question of how you divide it and schedule it. For the cost of accommodation in the home state, it amounts to 5 to 7 thousand kuna per month and for foster families, it amounts to a thousand 440 to a thousand 600 kuna. Now there's a question of quality. The role of this money given by the State in state institutions or in non-institutional forms such as the foster family. These amounts that the state gives to foster families are practically only fostered by foster care rather than foster care. So it's the money for the apartment and the food, not for the development of the child, not for the care of the old and the powerless. There is no doubt that accommodation in a foster family in social care services is recognized as more natural and as a cheaper form of care that definitely provides both protection and the possibility of living in a family environment. And that, for these very reasons, the law should allow for the development of foster care in Croatia. And I support that. But there are many problems here, and I don't think the law respects everything that the foster parent himself has to fulfill in order to become and gain foster status. These are a number of criteria. You have to, for, be a foster parent, have a big apartment or a big house, a room of certain squares, a bed, a closet, everything is prescribed. Everything is prescribed by the rules. It is prescribed that all the levels of food and the corresponding foods you must have in the refrigerator when it comes to you, when your social worker comes to you and check that you feed and how you take care of him. And too little compensation of 1520 kuna for preschool and 1680 kuna for school children certainly do not satisfy the daily basic needs of children with whom these 1200 foster parents meet. What's good is that I think the law needs to tighten the criteria for foster parents. However, it offers no encouraging solutions that would attract younger and more educated people to do foster work. And for these very reasons, I think that the requirements of foster parents who require that the law provide for and possibly different kinds of foster care for children from a family who will take care of one child with their children, with their daily work and to those who will work in foster care and have five children who will be professionally cared for and at the same time receive an adequate reward for their work. And I think that would greatly change the current status of foster parents who, practically, when you look at these fees, work for free because they take care of children for 24 hours. So they don't have hours. The kid gets a temperature at 3:00 a.m. in the night, then he certainly can't say, "It's not my time, I'm only doing eight hours." It's just that kid needs to go to the hospital and wait with him, take care of him. So basically that concern is 24 hours. Or not to say anything else. There were many words about the need to give love to such children. You and the kids should go to the movies, go out, hang out with them. So it's a 24-hour job. And that's why yesterday the minister set up a dilemma and raised the question of whether this foster service should be professionalized for exactly these reasons. And he said he wasn't sure whether or not he was? I think a good opportunity has been missed to, that this law and professionalises the foster care because I think that possibility, without that possibility, we will not be able to develop the right way of foster care. These fees we're talking about regardless of all the love that's absolutely immeasurable and it can't be expressed in the money of a foster parent's efforts for one child is 400 kuna, and for three children 960 kuna. So life is one thing, and we're talking about love and I don't know, I don't know what. However, we must return to those day-to-day problems of the foster parent, which certainly includes the economic crisis in this country very, very much. It also seems to me that it would be good if, in the right sense of the household service, the word became an extended hand of the state and in every way the state gave confidence to the household service itself or to foster families to care for children who are entrusted to them for a certain period of time. And that is why it seems to me that foster families should also be organized in the chamber and in some way share that the chamber together with the social work centres also takes care of whether life in foster families is going on as provided for by the law. I am pleased that the Ministry has a foster care department that can track and all the problems that foster families face but I repeat from this Bill proposal must be noticed that there are not enough respect for the real life problems of foster families, but also trends, trends in the world. Namely, the standard in the European Union in other countries is five children for, for, in the family. You're down to three right now and you're saying it won't affect existing foster parents. It's only about future foster parents. And I'm asking you foster care is time-limited. When these children go to these existing foster parents, they will practically be subject to three criteria, not five. So you and these foster parents practically tear down those criteria that they had until they had the law. So now I'm going to be a little cynic. It's a 105-year tradition you're narrowing down with this law. And that's why I suggest, my proposal was to withdraw the law and make a good new law. Obviously, however, dilemmas have been opened from all these discussions. You need to see until the second reading and really fix the way to professionalize the service, to give the possibility of professionalizing the service And return the number of protégés. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89932	Replica esteemed representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89933	So you're colleagues of Skare-Ozbolt actually said an important sentence because it's not about money, it's about what needs to be taken care of by the state? No matter where they are. And by doing so, the law should actually turn upside down. The law should provide for what quality and extent of social care will be provided by the foster parent or indirectly through the country to a child who is located in a foster family. And then in the end, it should show the figure that the country needs to set aside for it. And we're here in advance saying, "No. The child who is located in a foster home will, I don't know, have 1500 or 1700 kuna or 1900 kuna, regardless of what it absolutely does not describe what that child should get for the sake of the state? On the other hand, have a child who is located in an institution where the state sets aside between 6 and 11 thousand kunas for that child and where it is precisely prescribed that this child should have so many meals that it should have such accommodation that it should have such and such care and again the question of how in one home it should be allocated 6 thousand kunas, in another home of 11,000 kunas. Therefore, the law cannot be so, we will give you money that we all agree is small, but it should really be prescribed how the state will take care of the child without adequate family care, no matter where the child is located, in an institution or outside the institution. And you need to secure money for his care no matter where it is. And then finally, it should be shown how much the state will essentially single out for such care, not to say in advance how much it will be. For example, a child who is placed in a home has the right to both school books and school supplies, both on clothes and on shoes. The child who is located in the foster family can only be obtained, or his family could only receive a refund of these costs after the bill was delivered for the books, a bill for the notes of the social care center...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89934	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89935	...they just didn't admit it. According to how that one child has the right to notebooks and pens...
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89936	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89937	...and the other kid doesn't have any.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89938	Replica, the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues have actually brought out one thesis that in itself is contradictory, actually with this whole approach to foster care. Access to foster care and this law emphasizes that it is, in fact, humanitarian and that the purpose of foster care is essentially that when a child leaves the institution, he enters a home where he will feel this kind of family atmosphere and in some way live normally. You said that actually this law was supposed to be used to professionalize that profession. If it becomes a profession then it's an institution, then we've achieved nothing by this law. And the law was just created, actually drawn from one of those old social care laws to propagate foster care as such. So I think this is exactly the kind of approach that doesn't move into professionalism. Because if you turn it into a profession that you can say and make money then it loses its meaning, the very meaning of foster care. Because if 5 is some criterion that you can have 5 protégés then you'll say it's cheaper to have 10 and 15 then we're... So I think that's where I think it's getting into professionalization, basically losing the sense of the law itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you also said that the criteria are too sharp. So if the state guarantees someone's care and safety, then it has to set some criteria. So the criteria are simply necessary. I don't know a law that doesn't have any criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89940	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Vesna Škara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89941	Well, my dear colleague, I said that I respected the criteria laid down in the law and that the criteria were not too strict, that control should be done more often than the law predicted for two years, once in two years, you know. I suggest every six months or at least twice a year to make sure. And as for this approach that you brought out, I was not the opposite in the attitudes. I made it very clear that it is not enough for a child, that a foster family that has five children or three children fostering three children has 960 kuna compensation. So you put yourself in the position of foster parents with three children and have 960 kuna fees. Well, I don't think this country is meant to make foster families into social cases, but to create conditions for these children or those protected persons in the foster family to have all the right conditions as if they were in their own family. That's why I'm saying it's necessary where the mother stays in the house with five children, foster children need to have an average salary given in Croatia, not a 960 kuna fee. That's all I'm saying. And I think you can agree with that. And go to a foster home for a while and spend 24 hours with them, and you will see how many content and various living conditions there are.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89942	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89943	Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would first like to commend the ministry's efforts and efforts to make one of these laws that should undoubtedly be regulated by one area that has so far been said outside the real institutional and legislative supervision. But that, but always behind this commendation, says that obviously in the proposal and the draft of the law, we did not hit the right goal or purpose of passing this law. In fact, I will allow myself to be a spokeswoman here in the assembly of an association that has sent a whole series of excellently reasoned remarks to this law, not to assume the quality and ability of thinking on the side of the association in relation to, say, the work of the ministry but also professional persons, but because I fully agree with the remarks that this association has provided here. In fact, I think that we in Croatia are still not about one of the fundamental issues being clearly identified. It's a question of inclusion, a question of deinstitutionalisation that has major recommendations. We're not in the clear yet whether it's actually good or not. A few months ago we organized here in our Committee on Family, Youth and Sports together with two other committees to discuss the inclusion when it came to the establishment of Stancic. The major recommendations have opened up and there have been huge differences in the reality of whether to deinstitutionalise or not. Here we are very often in the inability to define ourselves going with extreme arguments, and then it happens that, let's not let the public stay and say something we'll deinstitutionalize or we'll do it gradually or we'll leave time to solve, etc. And, and. No, we here must, as a society, be precise and clear on what we are obliged to say and to the conclusions of all the applicable United Nations conventions and what is confirmed by the practice of most countries when it comes to deinstitutionalisation of all forms of social care, i.e. the care of people. Says the 2004 recommendation of the Committee on the Rights of the Child to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee further recommends that a Member State promotes family care through foster care as a form of replacement child care and that institutionalised accommodation is used only as a last resort, in the sense that it is professionally indicated and carried out in the best interests of the child and that in regular intervals, a review of the accommodation of children is carried out in accordance with Article 25. The Committee also advises Member States to develop quality standards for foster care and to significantly reduce the time spent by children deprived of parental care in institutions, etc., talks about the need for financial resources and the like. So, I'd say we didn't overcome fear, if we hadn't prevailed even though that fear wasn't entirely unfounded by fostering and deinstitutionalization. I witnessed personally to parents who, when we were laying the cornerstones for welfare institutions, coming with tears in their eyes and saying thank you, we can now think calmly about it and die because we know who we're going to leave our children who aren't able to take care of themselves. But that's the consequence of one concept that's being abandoned, but also the bad and negative experiences that we've had because of the poor work we've had in foster care. The association that I said I would be a spokeswoman very clearly and precisely says that this Law, but also to all others what we do in the country when it comes to fostering the following tasks if we want to have quality foster care in Croatia. First, to establish clear and relevant criteria for the provision of foster care for children and how those relating to material and technical and social conditions, as well as the ability, personality, motivation of the foster parent. You'll say maybe so here's what we've just put on, we've prescribed age, we've prescribed school supplies etc., etc., but the clarity of the criteria in this case means actually reducing the possibilities to determine the other kind of similarities that necessarily don't have those who enter these criteria and on the other hand can have those that don't fit those criteria to be valid and good and quality foster parents. Further, to allow them continuous quality education supervisory. That's what's so important that when children or adults are fostered so we don't raise our hands and say we don't care, let's do things, we've done our part of the work. To conduct regular monitoring of the foster child’s family. All of us who had something to do with the welfare system could also witness terrible examples. I personally had the opportunity to see foster children working in the field, and my own child sitting at the table and I don't know, reading, writing homework, studying, etc. We have such cases, unfortunately, and for these cases it is not only a responsible foster parent, but we are also responsible because these children, these are our children, there is no one else to worry about but as a state we give or extradite to such foster parents. I remember 15 years ago that I saw two children literally placed in a pigsty, a little taller pig that was just run out of the house where there were two children, etc. So, this professional regular surveillance, family monitoring, it's condicio son qua non of any conversation about quality foster care. We need to have continuous professional support, we need to make a precise plan of how and how to educate foster parents, the people who work with them must be professional, they must be specialized, we need to have additional educated people working with foster parents, but also with biological parents of children. These are difficult dramatic experiences of children who are separated from their own families or separated from their biological parents, how, in which way, to allow a foster child to enter his own biological family as soon as possible. Furthermore, a whole series of associations have sent comments along with this Law with one by one a very good proposal for which I would like you to assess in the ministry why you do not accept it and let us see until the second reading, and it is a proposal to set up or to foresee the possibility of therefore independent one professional agency, institution or association doing the job. I know you might step back and some of the associations went pro-home sua with such a proposal, but I think it's an interesting suggestion. Why? It's simply because within the social care centre, if we look at the problem of foster care complexly this way, someone outside the system itself can deal with it, the agency can be a good medium or a good institution that can do it. Furthermore, to recognize the important role of fosterers as a partner of state services, that under the law clearly regulate not only the obligations but also the rights of foster parents and here the issue that is open and in the previous debate, I really think that the compensation for the work of the foster parent should be ensured, I think that there must be professional access to the whole story, we must have professional foster parents because in this case we will avoid, although I understand the observation of a colleague of Bačić, we will avoid that one so to say merciful approach to the whole problem in which, through the act of mercy, you are fostering other children so that it can then be seen and through the fingers of the fosterer can avoid. No, you're gonna get money for what you're doing, you're gonna get money, but that's why you're gonna have to accept all the couses and all the rules that bind you to it. And in the end, my time is running out. Please let us get out of our statistics, it is unusually important for foster children from fostered elderly adults etc. The statistics you gave us in the light of this Law indicate that to God’s foster care still gradually increases. No, I don't. It shrinks when it comes to children. And so, we have to specifically track the children, the number of foster children falling slightly from year to year. And we, instead of deinstitutionalizing childcare, are just the other way around, talking about this information. ... There's still some statistical data missing, and I'd be happy to give you the benefit of what I've received as comments from these associations on whose behalf I've been speaking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89944	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must point out right away that fostering is a tradition in the Croatian people and especially in northwestern Croatia. I must say, in my village, where I was born, and there is a tradition of foster care. One of my colleagues who later became my best man, he was from a foster home, and as such, he managed to finish college, later and master and doctorate. So it all depends on the good people he finds himself in. There are examples that are good, less good, unfortunately here, and fellow Vidovic spoke of bad examples. However, what is already said on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP means that it would be better and better quality to have the law that goes the first time and which is the novelty in Croatia, that we still need to strive for something better and better quality, even if it is for a longer period and if it is more painfully adopted. I know the secretary of state might answer, but we're going in two readings. Maybe three o'clock. But that's not a good enough answer because at a meeting in Varazdin where the representatives of the Federation of Hosts were, they sought very precisely and clearly that the law was removed from the agenda because a lot of things they discussed with the ministry were not incorporated into the text of this law. However, I'll start with these fees. I don't understand the respected colleagues and colleagues, but yesterday we were talking about amendments to the Social Care Act and we're always talking about the possibility of a state. I'll do it again. Our budget has increased by over 10% compared to 2006 for this year. We boast that tax revenues are 15% higher than in the same period last year. The basis for which all social benefits and foster care have been given has not been changed since 2001 and no one can tell me the 2001 budget, the 2007 budget that is not in the money system. He obviously has money, but he doesn't want to get it right. In addition, it seems to me a month ago it was very clear from the government that the basis for social contributions from 400 will increase to 500 kuna. Madam Secretary of State! I know you're not the finance minister, but I guess you're close to the government. Would it be interesting for us to explain the reasons for waiting? And on the burden of the most endangered. You can't convince me exactly that everything's okay, because it's probably going to increase in nine months, because that's when the election campaign comes to an end. This is why we see the amount of personal compensation, and this is one of the remarks that is made in Varazdin at this meeting and people who work in welfare centres, but also from foster families, it has been said and requested that all household contributions are not linked to the basis for social care, but to bind themselves probably to the average salary in Croatia. A child who is in a foster home should eat normally should go to school normally and go to vacations there and everything else. Accordingly, according to these people's proposals, the rights of the foster parent should be much clearer than defined by this law. It should also be made more clear how to prepare and equip a user who goes to a foster home before he gets there. Because they've been giving examples of life, and it's life that teaches us something that often times or children or adults come in that they don't have the most basic needs, and the state pushes everything away and then what's left of it rather than the foster parent getting it. By the way, one of their main remarks was, if adults or children go to an institution, it costs 6, 7 and more thousand kuna. And this way, when we look at it, let's try for one child, for example, that goes into a foster family, we give 50% of that amount when we add it all up here as possible. No one can convince me and I'm asking a question here, Madam Secretary of State, if you can answer me. Why are these most unprotected savings, and we keep talking about how the situation with the number of children, the newborn children, is disastrous, so I guess we should take more care of this most unprotected population, too? The other thing is that, the opinion is the foster parents and also the people who work in welfare centres, that continued professional support should be given to the foster parent. It's jurisdiction and concern, it should be a welfare centre and it should give away the recognition that they're working at those centers. However, we must be aware that they are working with a large number of users, often dealing with unnecessary administrative affairs, so that the law should define how often users who are in foster families, who can make any complaints, whom and how they are called and called to account, or that is what we should say, should be stronger than the control mechanism so far. A very important thing that foster parents complain about, especially those who have children and children with special needs far more pronounced, is the right to be sick. If a person is already doing something humane and takes the children to his home, in case the child is sick, so he cannot get sick, he must use either vacation or something else. And where is this humanity now justified? I'm asking now. Why doesn't it fit into the law? ... He can't get a co-worker. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's a practice from the welfare center, it's confirmed. You can say you can get it, but practice says something else. If we build it in legally, then it'll be an obligation. ... He can, but he doesn't have to. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's an important difference to you. My colleague, you don't seem to know the difference. Yeah, that doesn't seem to me that if we want things to be clear and accurate, that it can't be, but that in the event of a child's illness, it has to get sick and it has to be compensation and everything else, it's a whole different story. A special story means we're going around these heights of personal foster care. I personally think if we've introduced a parent nurse, then this part should be increased. I'd like someone to give us a precise calculation. I kind of calculated it. When a personal supply fee is taken, it is possible to add 50% of what is given if a child goes to an institution. Madam Secretary of State, you're nodding your head, but give me the receipt of why you didn't give it then. I'm asking you to calculate that for us. Here, it corrects me, it doesn't seem like it's that much or maybe there's some kind of giving that we don't know about or that's just about to get there. Therefore, too many open issues in this law are the same as the issue of professional preparation. We can say we strive to have compulsory high school education. But we don't have it right now. We also have a situation of statistical nature that tells us what the current situation is in Croatia, how many high-school educated people we have and with medium professional training, etc. We do, too, because foster parents are mostly in rural areas, rural areas where and otherwise, professional facilities are lower than elsewhere. We can say that it's not worth it now that those who already have a foster home that it's not worth it, it's not worth it, but until the extension of the license. When they go to renew the license then according to the letter of the law, you correct me, maybe I'm wrong, or maybe we don't know how to read it all. They won't be able to renew the license. Also, as far as I know Minister Kosor likes to take pictures with other state officials in numerous Croatian families, so I don't understand why those who have the will and desire and also the conditions to have more than three children in foster care why, with the special responsibility of the Centre for Social Care and their particularly positive opinion, why there could be no more children in normal procedures. Because I can only ask you how that for those who are fosterers do one humanitarian, humanely beneficial job why they can only have three children and we boast that we have families eight plus etc. It seems to me that often times in such families, they can devote less to their own children than they do to foster families, and it seems to me that it should be much more flexible if we want children to stay in foster families. I stress myself here especially on children than it will be in homes that are still in my deep conviction with all the human work of those who work there. But unfortunately, we have too many cases that indicate that there are "event" cases, in foster families, much less and much better, such children live through childhood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89946	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to briefly get involved in this debate on this important subject, and on the one hand, I should like to express my satisfaction that we finally have in front of us the proposal for a Household Law, and on the other hand, I must openly express my dissatisfaction because such a bill as it is today will not achieve those objectives that we have declared. In my opinion, there will be no increase in the number of foster families, and there will be no increase in the number of children that the foster parents will take care of. There'll be a cut. We have a proposal for a law that no one seems to be satisfied with, and particularly is not satisfied with the foster care association, and I would therefore like to express my position in relation to the foster care and this law. Householding as a special form of care and care for old and powerless people and taking special care of children is concerned with people who have recognised that they have the potential to care for people who need their help and indeed find personal satisfaction, feeling that someone needs them and, of course, it's normal to expect me to say some sort of compensation rather than profit. I'm confident I can never charge for all these people's efforts but foster parents don't expect it, but they expect proper treatment from the state in relation to this activity. Hosthood is a form of concern for those who do not have their families to care for, and they themselves are not able to provide the possibility of family atmosphere and care for them in another family, which means that foster parents spend whole days with their customers. For a foster parent if he wants to be real, and I believe he doesn't have a vacation, there's no working hours, but those who have dedicated themselves to him must be available day and night, and on Sundays and holidays, and working days. Certainly all of us, when we talk about foster care, we are thinking primarily about the particularly responsible foster care of children because the foster parents face various problems that children have, those problems that children have brought from their families, and all of these problems must be dealt with together with by the foster parents, and they must deal with them constantly, peacefully, step by step, and allow foster children to create the best possible conditions for further life and work. In order to solve and give quality education to foster children, the foster parent must first of all have a soul, heart, and smile, and certainly a willingness to give both the soul and the heart and the smile to the needy and the need for the foster child was first of all a child or an adult. Terms of technical, spatial, material can be created, can be bought, can be sold, but love for a foster family cannot be bought or sold but only have and be willing to give. In any case, I support the need to pass a special law that would regulate foster care. And now that a man reads the opening statement of the Household Law, he cannot disagree that the proposal is fair and expected. The proposal states that the draft law is in the spirit of new guidelines on social care, of which deinstitutionalisation takes a significant place and that the promotion and popularisation of foster care in Croatia is a priority task. At the declarative level, the Proposer states that it is necessary to make changes in the relationship between institutional and non-institutional forms of concern in favour of non-institutional forms, and I, of course, fully agree. But, gentlemen of the government, when the material rather than declarative norms you are proposing are more carefully considered, the full discrepancies and disabling of the principles that you have laid down in your reasoning as those that we will follow in the bill of law, because they are quite the opposite in the bill of law. This law, as proposed, does not resolve any issue or issue of fosterers, nor the question of fosterers, nor the question of deinstitutionalisation. They're all dissatisfied with him. Hostage organizations especially. Uh, this law will reduce rather than increase the number of foster families, and our goal is to increase, not reduce. These days, numerous meetings and other meetings were held throughout Croatia, and round tables of interested associations, social workers, representatives of local self-government, and at one in Pula I took part and then I personally became convinced and this is my belief that the requirements of the foster associations on these round tables and which they provided to the ministry were fully justified, and that the bill promoter and justified by me had not incorporated the objections into this law. On this proposal, the associations made a number of comments which the content is covered. I have it here with me, but I know you have it in the Ministry, and there's no need to elaborate it wider. This is too serious a question to treat him irresponsiblely, especially to politicise against this issue. I rule out any politicisation of this issue already I want problems solved and problems obviously exist. This is a law, I cannot say that it is simply irreparable and I suggest that this, this debate on this proposal, as stated by counterpart Milanka Opačić on behalf of the SDP Club, be seen as a previous debate. To prepare the new text of the bill, to respect and install in it the legitimate requirements that the fosterers' associations have made to you and then to come before this House and I believe that by that consensus we will then pass a law that will also achieve these fundamental objectives that we declared, which we have declared, because only in that case will I be in a position to vote for one such law and I, give my vote, and otherwise for such a bill I simply cannot give my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89948	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89949	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct a colleague who says in his debate that this law will not lead to an increase in foster care but rather a reduction in foster care. That this law has declarative traits, that this law makes everyone unhappy that it's incorrect. And if he hadn't brought any proposals in his debate to correct this law. And I really believe that this law seeks to legalize and regulate both the terms and standards of foster care and the way in which the foster care is performed and who can deal with foster care and, of course, this law is in the first reading. And that second reading might take into account the suggestions of fostering associations and all of us who are discussing this law. Unfortunately, you have made no contribution to the improvement of this law through your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89950	Thank you. Replica esteemed Commissioner Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89951	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague who said the law was bad, that the number of foster families would be reduced. That they're dissatisfied with associations and so on. And not by mentioning and not by giving any of her own solutions, as my colleague Caparin said. However, I must say that indeed, indeed, this problem is first discussed in one whole way, and this law, which is first passed, brings systematic order into this problem. Among other things, all that has been mentioned so far is that foster teams are being established, that compensation is being determined for foster parents, that foster education will be implemented, the register is being established for the first time. Finally, the law is in the first reading, and we all have the option, and that's what we're actually asked to do to help make a better law. And the bid on which the association was working, which is not only a political pamphlet, reflects the recognition of its own impotence and uninventivity in solving this problem. I believe you that it is hard to admit that someone knows how to do it better, and HDZ has shown in this mandate that he knows and can arrange many areas of life and one of these is certainly fostering [[Good job, Mirjana.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89952	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89953	And here's an esteemed colleague of yours right now, standing up for what I'm up against. I said that this law should not politicise either the HDZ or the SDP or anyone. And you just seem to be constantly politicizing. And if it was me, I didn't make any argument. I'm very obvious and clear, I'll read you what I said. These days, many meetings and round tables of interested associations, social workers, representatives of local self-government are held throughout Croatia and I took part in one in Pula. On this proposal, the associations made a number of remarks which the content is comprehensive and which you gentlemen from the Government are in possession of. And I don't want to explain that broad proposal here right now. That's my suggestion because I'm me, and that's what I said in the debate, "I've accepted the association's remarks as my own." And these are my concrete suggestions to improve this text of the law. It remains only for the Government to make these justified proposals that came from the associations, which I perceive as my installation in the Bill's Proposal and to be a preliminary debate and then to prepare a better bill for the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89954	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89955	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The public had high expectations, and especially the foster parents expected such a thing, i.e. I proposed a law on foster care and their expectations were greater, it is certain that with greater disappointment they welcomed such a bill. This is undoubtedly witnessed by yesterday's foster parents protest in front of the Parliament when activists of the Croatian Federation of Hosts who gather 14 foster associations in front of the Parliament welcomed their representatives and expressed their dissatisfaction, and before that, the public was familiar with both electronic and press media. What's this about? First of all, what is the spirit of such a proposal for a law on foster care? He expresses a great mistrust with the foster parents themselves. This law was to show, or the bill was to show that the government had a soul. This law was supposed to be written with a heart. Young couple Kosanovic in a Rijeka suburb in his rented apartment opened his soul to this problem to journalists and presented his case. When they first came to the home to visit their current protégé and then the five-year-old boy and they had a story that tells everything, which should be one warning and how to write such a bill at all. They say that the boy knew that they were coming for him, and as no one visited him, he stopped at the other children to yell, step aside, don't come near. His line is signifiable, stop, those are my people. You see, this sentence should ring the Proposer and to all of us when we finally adopt the Household Act. So here may be a little guidance to the proposer. In correcting this law, and I absolutely agree with the SDP's position put forward here, which was particularly highlighted by counterpart Opačić, so that this bill should indeed be treated as a preliminary debate in order to get a quality proposal in the beginning. So, wait, these are my people. Let that be the first thought of building each and every article of this law. Wait, these are my people. So, with great confidence, we need to approach the foster parents. Of course, what my colleague Vidovic said, the state and the obligations of the state did not stop with children, and on their own and with the foster parents the moment they handed over the child or the adult, and on their own child. So this is exactly the control mechanism that is the responsibility of the state or the centre. What experience or foster parents themselves say. To be a foster parent, you must have a large apartment, a room of certain squares, a suitable bed and closet, it is prescribed almost to the level of food needed by the foster parents to meet the needs of your protégé. Is that possible with the amount of £520 for preschool and €680 for school children? That amount does not satisfy even the basic daily needs of children. And that's one of the burning problems that foster parents face every day. Well, the public is aware, for years the foster parents have been paying attention to this big problem. If many had taken up credit so that they could feed those children because they did not want to part with them. Such an emotional bond has been created. Unfortunately, however, many have to give up because they do not have the necessary means to support adults or their own children. Therefore, the state should again make sure that the primary interest is not in foster parents but children. And the state knows well when calculating how much the institution costs, all the experts it needs to have such a child in the institution is three times more expensive than when given into foster care. The foster parents lack cooperation with psychologists, sociologists, logos, defecologists, and other experts. And what is particularly important is to apostrophe that does not respect the UNICEF concentration in Croatia, which is prescribed that children under the age of 3 must be placed with foster parents, not institutions. The media reports today and yesterday and the day before yesterday in certain homes that children remain due to inadequate response of individual centres, of course, it is not all the same and should not be generalised but very concrete examples, i.e. the objections that children, contrary to the law, remain in and remain in certain homes, not in foster care or not adopted. Well, the question is who's responsible, who's to blame for the stolen childhood of those kids. It's the state's fault. How is it possible for a child who has been put into an institution for a year or less to stay in it for several years? That's one big, big care. And that's what the answer should finally be given. Do they make a suggestion like this? No, I don't. He's still a brake of deinstitutionalization. And what did she do? The foster parents organised themselves to strengthen themselves, to prepare themselves and how they would like to be and how they really want to be what they really are in their very essence, the true partners of transforming social care in an adequate way and to be recognised by the state. So just as partners in child care at the care of society. It may be very interesting or interesting to mention Clinton's law that was passed a few years ago where many countries, too, are pointed out here, encountering similar problems and similar doubts, but these doubts must not last long because children are growing, they need adequate response and determination of the state, finding a solution. So, note, this Clinton law provides for $4 to $6,000 each social work center when you give a child into a foster family. Because that's exactly how the centers are encouraged to do their job. As it is about children then it is of course that there is a desire of the state to just encourage them to do their duty to the fullest extent possible in this segment. And such families have the amount of compensation 8 hundred dollars a month. I would like to point out further, this is what my colleague Opačić said in her opening letter, saying on behalf of the club, as well as my colleague Vidovic, that there is no general view here, so we cannot now talk about how much and what is the trend of fostering adults or children. But no doubt it's obvious that there's something he wants to hide, to hide. Because the data that were not publicized were not accurate and the fact is unfortunately, despite the fact that reality is said to be different, that the fewer children given to families, or fosterers, and then there's a concrete fact about that thing, in these numbers there is also the efficiency, the inefficientness of the center and the refuting words not only of your Madam Secretary of State, but even more of the Mr. Minister here today, but who brought it out yesterday, but we can touch it here and take it, underline one parallel that the whole series of untrues has proved because that reality, reality, reality, is different than it actually is. Therefore, here you understand this to the best extent because here are the people who are self-sensitive, and especially when it comes to children and here until this first reading there is time for you to listen and associations which you best... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89956	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's a good thing you broke up with your colleague in this demagogy. ... You don't even know the situation in welfare centres and homes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not true that social center officials do not give children under the age of 3 because you cannot find such children or have such children. The foster parents are looking for such children. It's harder to adopt children who are 8 and 9 years old. And with this demagogy stop, those are my people. Oh, these upstairs foster parents and all the parents who have such children and foster parents have a parole stop that's my parents... My people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89958	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89959	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we've been listening here all along from the SDP ranks, there's no politicizing, we're all up for this bill, and then we hear a statement, says who's responsible for the stolen childhood but the state. So I mean really one absolute inaccuracy. First of all, it's the kids they're home for, and because of all those people who work in homes, who try to give those kids the childhood they can give them as much as they can, I mean, I had to get back to them, I mean, it's really offensive to all of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89960	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89961	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague of mine said that this law shows a lack of trust in foster parents, which is completely incorrect. In fact, this Law introduces the education of foster parents, introduces monetary assistance to fosterers and more intensive care and supervision, and ultimately means helping in every respect and foster care and children and asks the question is, is it possible for a colleague to care with a thousand 500 kunas, to take good care of such children? So how many have they had so far? So finally the foster parents, every honor and every commendation for this wonderful care they take on themselves, but ultimately their motto is humanity and love for children, not money for how much they get, but this government is also trying to find the maximum means of money to give these children both material and these foster parents and material help for children.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89962	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89963	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague said you didn't know where to go with this law. It is clear that this law supports deinstitutionalisation which is in line with social care reform. It is to place the weight on the user, to improve the care of these users. Therefore, the goals and tasks are clearly set. Then it's said he wants to hide the data. The data are clearly written, displayed and available here in materials and elsewhere. We have indeed heard a series of demagogue discussions here, and suddenly so much excitement and care for foster families and care, and we would really remind what they had so far. This is one positive shift, perhaps insufficient, but certainly positive
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89964	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89965	So here in a series of inaccuracy, I'm joining another one. The colleague says that there is no indication of the number of fostered, or number of children compared to the number of adults, and that this is not adequately shown in terms of the total number of foster parents. This simply simply shows that this Law has not been read, that the arguments given on page 4 and 5 in the table and in the text section are simply not read, and literally the number of children and youth located in the total number of users is shown to be reduced. Therefore, the State Secretary and Ministry of State have accurately shown the real situation, which still shows the trend of growth in 2006 compared to 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89966	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Lalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89967	Well, dear colleague Anticevic, I fully agree with you. ... I'm not looking for a fellow Letician warning, but I'd like to make it possible, I don't see any reason why he's reacting this way. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89968	I agree. Here you go. Please, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89969	Because I'm just saying that it's true that the fundamental driving force of foster care is humanity, love for man, love for brother man, especially if he's powerless, poor, and that's recognizable. It is recognized by those who are fostered both children and adults. And this kid who said stop, those are my people, he recognized that humanity. However, humanity alone is not enough for quality foster care because it takes both real and real costs away. The state prescribes what conditions fosterers must meet, what conditions must be of quality, what quality of life they must provide for the foster home and for all of this gives a thousand and 500 or a thousand 600 kuna. That amount hasn't changed in years. So it would be unfair for counterpart Anticevic to now accuse the foster parents that they actually want to make money on someone. No, I don't. They don't want to make money on anyone, but it's humane and normal for these people whose quality of humanity and driving force is more humanitarian to help them get the costs they have. If the expenses in the homes are 5, 6 grand and I don't know how much per user, what made it possible to determine that the cost of foster parents in the foster family is 1,000 kuna? Despite all the humanity, therefore, foster care will not flourish unless the state helps to recover the costs that they really have.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89970	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89971	Yes, colleague Lalic. These are earthquake words. Wait, these are my people. But those people over there call it demagogy. But it's not demagogy. It's exactly something that needs to bring us all together here to hear the voice of these worse people who claim that they can't feed those children that they so warmly want to embrace. The truth is, man does not live on bread, which you especially point out, that love is very important. But with 1,000 kunas, they can't feed those children or give them what they need. That's exactly what Mr.... when he says that the compensation to the foster parents didn't change for six years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The basic observation is that such compensation is linked to that basis. So this base that hasn't changed since 2001. Therefore, the foster parents require that their rights be specifically regulated in the law and that these fees be increased, or that the basis be raised, so that they can be capable with the love of the child they provide and also of these other persons, so that adults can do their job. And there's no speech here that they'd make money on it. So they tear away even from their own children and their mouths so that they can feed them. Unfortunately, it's a trend now because I can't take it anymore, it's not a rare case of the last few years and lately, that those kids are getting back to their homes. And that's something that's worrying.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89972	Thank you. The words have a distinguished representative, Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89973	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your honor of the Secretary of State, your colleagues and your colleagues. Here, this discussion of the proposed Household Law that is in the first reading takes a long time. It was about a long tradition of foster care and how the law came now. The problem of foster care has been solved in recent decades through laws that naturally covered things. It was the Social Care Act. However, this Household Law has now appeared with the goal of moving foster care as a form of care for protégés from institutions to homes. So, in my opinion, it's the purpose of this law to just propagate this way of taking care of the protégé. However, we are aware that no law, no decree of things can be moved. And if now, you were talking about fees, if we were to make no fees, the question is, would the larger number of these 2,000 600 families that have been registered so far, would there be more? So the purpose for me is the law that, through the clarity of the criteria that are set, and the criteria are necessary, we saw from the debate of fellow Vidovic, that he found cases that were actually startling in the surveillance. Therefore, the state is responsible for caring through institutions where standards are known, criteria for what should be in the institution. But when we talk about foster care, which is particularly regulated by law, and there must be criteria. Clearly, then, these criteria are not based on current foster parents. That's where it's gonna stay the same. However, through control and supervision this will somehow lead to a better order. And the criteria apply to new, potential foster parents who need to know clearly what they're facing. So they need to know that they have to meet some conditions. However, they will be helped by social care centres where they are clearly told that they will have trained teams to educate, who will work first with the foster parents, who will guide them in how they should actually take care of those children. And that's a big step. It's a matter of compensation. Surely we can say that these fees are adequate, can they be better? Well, I'm sure I can be better. However, it should be noted that so far the foster parents have not received this special fee. This fee, as well as supplies and special fees, has been exempt from tax payments. And this in some ways shows that the state is leading special care and care and fostering that it in some way stimulates them, among other things, through this material vision, to deal with these matters. This is the first reading, and therefore I say there is time for all these remarks that have been made here today to be appreciated and that both the question and the amount of compensation for the second reading to be improved. What was shown through the debate so far was the issue of this principle relationship whether it should be, will be professionalisation or just this approach as it was offered. I think this is a better model and if we're going to professionalize it, that's what I said in the replica, so we can practically do the institutions again. As soon as a larger number of 3, 5 appears, 10 are already small homes and then the question is whether we are propagating foster care or practically institutionalizing it again in another way. Therefore, I believe that this proposed bill is good, that this is the first reading, that the remarks that the associations have, which have shown in this debate, which my colleagues have said will adopt and that until the second reading, we will receive and repair the text of this law which I believe is acceptable and I support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89974	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89975	Well, Mr. Bacic here talked about not knowing if the increase in fees would increase the number of foster parents. We certainly don't have any of us a magic ball, and we don't know if that would lead to a higher number of foster parents. However, in any case, I think it would increase the quality of these children's lives. Namely, if every child in the foster home has a two-and-a-half kuna allowance a day, it's not for a single ice cream ball. If parents or foster parents have to take care of those children and during the time when the children go to school with this amount they now have, it is certainly not enough to ensure that all needs of the child are thus their quality of life. I said here, homes and institutions always get some humanitarian help. They get the same gifts from some companies. They get a lot more than the state. Unfortunately, the foster parents are deprived of all of it, and no one gives it to them. People have to go to the welfare center and ask for some help. Often they don't get that help financially because the center says there's no money. And in the end, I'd like to say one more thing. Surveillance is necessary both for foster parents to protect themselves and for the centres. I ask you, Mrs Nikolic, do everything possible to sanction people in centres who don't do their jobs by name and last name, because it unfortunately falls on all the people in the center. There are a lot of people out there who do their job fairly and well, certainly more of them, but because of those people who are still named today in newspapers in certain centres who don't do their job professionally falls on everyone. And that's why it takes you as a state as well, as a ministry but also a profession among yourselves exactly to call people who don't do their job and eventually sanction them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89976	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89977	My colleague was talking about the role of the welfare center. However, I would particularly like to emphasise the great role that is being passed by this law, which is foster care teams in social care centres. In fact, many of us do not know what kind of problems foster parents face when they come to the home to look for children they would like to host. I have already said that usually younger children are asked for up to three years of age, what some have mentioned in the debate, but the average stay in the home is six to seven years. These children have suffered terrible traumas and are now moving into a family that must also face the problem of these children, from which the environment comes and what problems the child himself has. So, in this section, we need to educate the foster parents, and of course these foster teams should be educated, especially when it is particularly important to point out that these teams will have a supervisory vision and that they will be able to control and assist foster families.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89978	I didn't see if the answer was a replica. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89979	Thank you very much. I think I agree with this attitude that my colleague Caparin put out, that these criteria that are set and are related to education and practical and supervision, that they are clearly set up and that their goal is, in fact, to make it easier for foster parents in some way, especially for them to be better protected. So, the purpose is that the proteges in some way benefit from all of this, and that is why this license has been introduced, which must actually be renewed every two years to establish, that people are properly educated and that they approach these children in the right way. I'd just come back, I gave the replica and for my colleague Opacic the question of the height of the fee, that through the height of the fee would certainly be better for those children too. Well, that's what I agree with. I was also talking about the amount of compensation we can still discuss and that better solutions can be made to the second reading and the segment. However, I am also convinced that no matter how much this fee will be that only through compensation we will not increase the number of foster parents, we must through other visions in some way explain this problem consent people and make them aware that it is, that through that vision they will enrich themselves. So, that those families who are going to house it to do one human work, that they will be adequately rewarded for it, but I don't think that we can achieve the financial compensation because we need to include other elements in it, simply to work on the consciousness, and then only those results of the number of foster parents will be greater with us. They're the way they are now, and we can't force them, and we need to take care of these protégé institutions, they can't be on the road.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89980	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, anyway, I'm going to vote for this law in this first reading because I think this is a good thing that's even going into regulation of such a problem and that it's going to be legal and that it's going to set up some sort of regulation that everyone should follow. However, I also hope that until the second reading, a public debate will be held and that the foster parents will be spoken to and that most of their remarks on this first reading will be appreciated. And I'd like to make some of those remarks myself. The first one that gets in my eyes the most, and that's a matter of professional training. I admit that in any case we need to go towards the knowledge society, I admit that we need to set some minimums, but I'm not about to introduce it right now. We live in a society, we live in a country where there are a million and a half people who have no elementary school, which with an incomplete elementary school, which with a finished primary school and over eighteen years old. So, a million and a half people. These people have children of their own. Does that mean they can't be good parents if they can't be foster parents? And I'm not for this right now to be bureaucratically determined that children can't be adopted unless there's a high-school expert preparing, so I apologize. That children can't be fostered if there's no expert preparing, especially if we know what kind of situation we're in. When one day and I believe that we will and will move towards the knowledge society and that we will go into lifelong learning and that we will raise that level of education, I believe that foster parents will also be and report to them, and believe me, the most come from those who have a lower level of expertise. And that is why I am to consider this provision and to discuss in any case this provision with those who do this work and deal with it. Another thing that also bothers me is to separate it in any case from older people, children with special needs and children, and not to do it bureaucratically but to separate it from the real needs because they are not the same for children, for older and for children with special needs. In any case, this applies not only to the money that these foster parents will receive, but also to their education because it is necessary to work differently with one, the other and the third. And also, with conditions that I can come to your foster home. It means separate categories according to needs rather than bureaucracy. I also don't understand this provision that the difference can't be greater than 50 years. That means three years from now, if I were to adopt, I wouldn't be able to adopt a child because I'd go 50 and 50 years and I couldn't do it anymore. At a time when life spans extend, when we live longer, I feel that this barrier is not logical at all. Because there are people who are 52, 53 to 65, 75 years old in quite good shape, and I think that a child could be brought and taken throughout school without any problems and put that child on the right track. Then there's the question of 5 to 3 reduction. We know that there are families and it's nice to see and wonderful and it's great to see families that have a large number of children. If parents can handle the kids at 5, 8, then 13 why can't the foster parents handle the 5? I don't see a purpose at all to limit the number of, say, children who can get a home. And one more thing I'd like to point out anyway, which is to control the work of the foster home but also to control the work of the center. The largest number of foster parents and the largest number of centers are actually almost all doing well anyway. But there are also those who do bad, and that's why, together with the foster parents, we need to see the best way and the best, let's say, the best form of controlling that work. And there's one more thing I'd like to point out, and that's continuous training. Because that's what's so much more important than that provision you said school prep should be at least high school. I think that these people should work far more, but not only with foster parents, but also with those teams that should train them, as well as with welfare centres. There should be far more investment in professional training of one, the other and the third. Here's so much hope that in the second reading, you'll spend a lot more time talking to the foster parents and you'll put far more of their remarks into the second reading in the law, in the proposal for a second reading, and that we won't have to have a welcome in front of the House of Host Associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89982	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Kapraljevic, the remarks you made on the text of the law, in fact, imposes a dilemma on us to ask ourselves what is, what do we want with this law? Does the state want to encourage the fostering of people in this country or build large homes and lock people in homes? So if we give bureaucratic solutions and fences around the school preparation of those who need, around income, about age age, do these same criteria apply to institutions that care about these children and those people? No, I don't. If a child is in a home, he may be entrusted with discipline and care regardless of differences in age and age, an employee. And at home or in the house, we'll look for differences. Then I just don't see the point. Furthermore, if we were to literally read these restrictions, then foster parents in Croatia could be also adoptors. Just the Rockefellers and the Einsteins. Three and a half thousand children are currently in Croatia in their homes. Most of them are not the priority of adoption because of age and other things. Is it not better for them, then, that we encourage people to take people out of their homes and house but not just children but old, powerless, sick people who need special care? And that is why it would be Madam Secretary of State and colleague Kapraljevic, you probably agree with me, ideally that in the light of the law for second reading it writes a magic sentence: The text of the law is in line with the Association of Hosts and the agreed criteria, the conditions they must satisfy to deal with this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89984	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89985	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Lesar, with all the things I agree with, and I didn't speak at all about the incomes or the centres in these, neither at home nor at all, nor at all about the incomes of the foster home. But here's because you asked me with your replica to say something and the fact that this base hasn't been changed since 2001. I think the best solution is to talk to the foster parents, ask and determine what are the real needs. And I'm talking about categories of real need for children, for children with special needs and for older people can't be different in 200, 300 kuna. I can't. This will certainly tell you that in some cases when it comes to fixed persons, when it comes to aids, this one must be far greater. And that's what should be defined with the Hosts' Association anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89986	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89987	Well, here's a colleague of Capraljevic's, I think he's actually quite correctly interpreted some things and saying that he's certain that the largest number of those who are fostering, who are fostering those children with lower professional training since high school. Yeah, that's true. And that information is properly presented in this bill. He's properly intruded and needs to be told to the public. It's 49.36% of the foster parents. It is an educational structure that will require daily continuous education and daily support for foster parents who care for the demanding needs of foster children. Therefore, in a situation in the Republic of Croatia where only 7% of higher education is in any case a category of people who host children requires one continuous support, continuous education, continuous education and day-to-day supervision.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89988	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, I agree, in any case, that it's all in there and that they write data that 49% is almost 50% of those with a lower level of expertise. Well, that makes sense. And I said a million and a half people were unfinished, either without any, or with a finished elementary school. But what does that mean in practice? If we accept a solution like this if it means that we should force all parents to do it, I mean I'm saying if it means that no one could be a parent if they didn't have a high school. This would mean that if this one were translated into real life, it means that there is no parental responsibility, that parents who have not finished high school have no idea about child rearing, that they must not have children. Well, we can't act like one. We can't limit someone to foster him because he doesn't have a high school, especially in a society where a million and a half people didn't finish primary school.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89990	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Zvonimir Sabati.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with an associate. So, of course, by looking at this bill, I'm asking myself and probably the vast majority of us here present the question which is the objective of the law. Of course, it was also evident from the discussion that this law finally wanted to regulate an important area which, so far, is not objectively and separately regulated. And from that point of view, we should commend the idea of legally getting rid of this area, as well as the effort it has been made to do so. I am probably asking myself the question of the objective of the law should be to create certain conditions and to lay down, of course, clear standards for users, but after that, the foster parents should also be satisfied and, among other things, to create certain security for both the user and the foster parent. When I'm talking about security, I'm going to assume it's meant to be when they get permission that certain standards that are prescribed are met, because otherwise they wouldn't get permission. But by passing laws or by amending laws, which we have had opportunities to do so many times in this House and to discuss, for example, and related to tourist services, both here and here, people who engage in such things, I would say important life steps, I suppose, too, must also equip the home, that they must take both loans and these loans in all of these according to certain rules that are still valid at that moment. After that, an amendment to the law suddenly occurs or the number of users decreases. Of course, on this basis, it is very likely that certain funds and suddenly the man who took the loan bet his assets come into a position that he will not be able to repay the loan. It happens, I mean it's reality. I've got a whole case file here. How long it took to get a license and then when it's got to be filled out first, and when it's filled out, it should be fulfilled according to these proposals. Who's going to repay the loan? Of course, if I were to say here that clear standards should be set, then first of all, it refers to setting standards and criteria that will be valid not only today but also for a greater number of years. Furthermore, when I talk about the objective of the law, then I always ask myself a question, I probably don't know if it will cause a certain replica of it, but the question is whether to continue, I'm free to say this is the kind of system of social care that is present in the country. I'm not going to say it's only defined in this law now. It's in a total centralised social care system like we do as a state. And that, unfortunately, continues with this bill. Well among other things you may or may not agree with me, but I personally think that you should still talk more about the drive and desire to take and outside... solve the problem of social care and not just institutionally as it is here or as it is mostly here and suggested. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'll talk a little bit more about it later. But first, let me go through some of my ideas. So on the other hand, when we talk about maybe the generality of this proposal, then it always bothers me when we give the minister too much power. I'll read it here,... the conditions concerning housing, social and other conditions of the Regulation are signed by the Minister responsible for social care or the level of supply in view of age, health status and needs of users by a decision established by the Minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these are very important things to me that should be dealt with legally. Good, you can speak differently, Madam Secretary of State. But the more quality it is settled in the law, the less it will be necessary to interpret it in one way or another or to possibly do some things that are not good. And I'm also going to say that with this bill of law, I'd say they sort of sort of solve relationships and establish certain criteria for both children and older people. My opinion is, and this debate has, in part, shown that all are more or less affected by the foster care of children. And in the debate it was proven, I'm not saying it's exclusively in this law. No, the law is generally written for both children and older people. However, the problem of older people is not so simple that it might be just as well mentioned in the overall social care legislation. They're very much mentioned by older people, not to mention their accommodations and so on. But when it comes to fostering, it seems to me that it should be more or more serious to deal with the subject of older people who are fostering or eventually singled out into a special law. I'm really, I'm just putting it as an idea. Because fostering older people is just one form of concern for that category of people. Namely, I'll just remind all of us that just in the last few decades there has been a steady increase of older people. We don't need to talk about reasons because we all know them. Of course the quality of life is one of those reasons. However, every modern society sets itself high-quality goals, I would say care organisations for older people. But what particularly motivates me to talk about older people is our villages. According to a special census, it is evident that in Croatia the villages are slowly dying and the elderly are increasingly prevailing. Even 85% of all rural settlements in Croatia are affected by the process of reducing the number of inhabitants. Even... The village is without a population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's certainly the result of the biological decommissioning of these settlements. There are 2,000 408 villages below 100 inhabitants and I don't want to list the data I'm guessing all of us know or know. I'd like to say that we often care for and less categories of people by not reducing their value, and for the older category, we don't care much. I guess my time is running out, so I'm gonna speed it up a little bit. As far as this law is concerned, so I have made my point in principle and it certainly seems to me that a little too much of this centralization that is here is present. In fact, the role of the Social Care Centre, and the minister himself, should be somewhat more decentralised. The role can also be educational and co-ordinated, but too many powers have been given by the minister and the Social Care Centre. As far as the standards mentioned here are concerned, both supply and accommodation criteria, etc. they should not be placed in the same category. Namely, the amount of supplies itself should always be based on certain standards. What is the diet of these householders, what is the quality of their concerns, what is the accommodation. These are all in some way parameters that should ultimately be an important element in some kind of supply, or in the price of accommodation. There was also a question about the professional preparation of the foster home. Well, I understand the desire to regulate it by law, too, but I'm afraid it's less important than what I said before. It is important above and above all heat, humanity, commitment to these people, to those users who are located in foster care, and it is less important itself to complete a professional preparation, so it is only the experience at the end and the assessment of the commission that gives permission should, in my opinion, be sufficient to assess whether or not the foster parent is able to receive a certain number of users.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89992	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89993	... of all the allegations of incorrect attempts to correct two. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] A colleague said that many potential foster parents raise loans to host 5 and to not know how many users. In the end, it turns out he can't. He turns out to be 3. However, this Law will only be implemented when it enters into force and will apply to those who only then submit applications, and not to those who have been granted a permit for foster care. And he also says that according to this law, too many powers are given to the minister and to the centres of social care. So what do we want anarchy? So who else is going to worry about spending and this, at all, this area being cared for rather than the minister and the welfare centers?
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89994	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sabati has made some claims that I would like to comment on with him. counterpart Brnadić has already said this to raise loans and that here we can now put into a social hazard situation those who receive foster care with them. I don't think this is a professional profession, professional occupation is a family home and that from 3 to 5, and we've already said in discussions that it can possibly be discussed whether it's 3 or 4, but in any case, the tendency of the law is certain to protect the users as best as possible, and I don't think it's a professional interest and should not lead to the social uncertainty of those who do foster care. We had, like, 2003, when we were 10, we went down to 5, so then here's when there were no earthquakes like that, I don't think it would be here either. When it comes to fostering and saying, here's only this table says that in fact the largest number of users has only one user's foster parents of a thousand 275, then 2 users and 3 users I calculated that this is a total of a thousand 948 users to three and the other 432 which is certainly not to be ignored until 5. When it comes to fostering children, the truth is that there's even a slight decline and a rise in foster parents who care for older people and I don't think it's too bad in the end. We need older people to take care of where they are, perhaps even in related families, and certainly when our villages are extinct that there will be more needs and that these people are being taken care of, but that there will probably be needs and those who will also be interested in providing such a type of service. Certainly not as professional occupation means, but as one we might say perhaps additionally... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89996	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89997	Okay, well, I'm sorry that I'm obviously not listening very carefully when I'm speaking, but these are attitudes and yours and mine can differ, and that's good to differ, at least then we're going to hone the quality or the highest quality of the bill. But you're not going to tell me that, and I'm going to show you here what conditions should be set to achieve, in order to get permission for foster care, although people want of course a little help along the way, and also earn something, even though it's not a professional occupation, but about that afterwards. They have to meet those criteria, those conditions. If the maximum number of users wants to host, someone might also want to expand a room. If people don't have money, they have to take credit. Of course, in that case, these people want to have their own safety. Not for a year, two, but for longer. But I also want to remind you of the changes in the law in, I mean, tourism services or something called it, where we were just reducing the number of beds. So I'm saying it wouldn't happen and here we have to figure out if it's 3 or 5. I think we should make five. Why not? And why reduce or rather say why limit to three? And when we talk about older people, of course there are more and more of them, and I don't agree with you that all humanely moving these people out of the village. Then who will be in the country? No one. That's why our villages are extinct. Well, you did say they'd be moved somewhere else. [[I didn't say that at all.]] You didn't talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89998	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Pacek.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u89999	Thank you very much. I agree with my fellow Sabati with you that here we have defined or the promoter too much power but it is also too much of a uncertainty as to the work of the ministry and especially the expectations that we are supposed to receive through the regulations, and we know that the rules are being passed too late and that often more and stronger are worth provisions than legal ones. What is also not good enough for me in this proposal is the difference between receiving foster care for children and for older people. It is not clear to me enough whether the proposer wants to create conditions for a child as if he were in a family, which means that he might then be a criterion for one child in the family, possibly two, and what conditions he wants to create for those who, at an older age, also live in a home. I think they're completely different criteria. Of course, the child is at the beginning of life, requiring him to be brought up, and the elderly have completely different needs. So I don't think we're even strategically determined what we want through the bill itself. And I believe that we will also not be able to define this area through regulations unless we have a goal. The law should define the path to the objective, and the rules should possibly clarify some stages and some time frames. So I think we should round this thing up in a better way in order to be suitable for young people, for children, but also for older people. And I don't think we got it this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u90000	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u90001	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, of course, when we talk about the minister's powers or let's talk about welfare centers, he'll say now, so I'm not in favour of creating anarchy. Save it, God. So social care centres must have a specific co-ordination role and educational, etc. I'm just saying not because of my colleague Pacek, but there was a correction there, by the way. Of course, it should be legally defined, legally resolved to get as little as possible, to get into some sort of business with as little inconceivability as possible. The minister cannot and must not have too many powers that are not, which cannot be legally resolved. As for various standards or criteria or conditions. I've got a case here, I've got a record of an eyewitness. So let me start reading to you how much it takes to do that. So let someone say it's simple, just so you can take that job. So all the people who deal with this foster care put a lot of money into it, believe me, but they want security and they want to have in some way the sustainability of that contract that ends up being concluded. And certainly, the criteria that are just like this on the way or generally mentioned should be legally defined and not leave it to the minister to sort of sublegal acts or rules ultimately solve things that are crucial to the survival of such foster homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u90002	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Kajo Butan.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u90003	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The foster care here, as we have heard, represents temporary family care for a person whose favourable development cannot be achieved in his own family. If we read this bill, then we could see how it was defined. Therefore, it is defined as outside of institutional care, care outside its own family to provide the user with housing, nutrition, preservation, education, health care and education and other needs. E, these other needs that are not defined by me have an important importance in this category of foster care, the amount of emotion that will be found there, warmth, healthy family relationship, attachment to certain traditions, respect for the worldview etc. It is my impression that some simply spoke incorrectly about this bill because some things did not really read it. And for the sake of truth and the public, I'm going to say it again, but I know it's boring, but these factographic data that clearly and clearly stand in this bill. So right now, around 19 thousand and 700 inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia are entitled to care outside their own family. It's 30% in the foster family. The number of persons in the foster family year by year shows a trend of slight growth, 2 to 4% a year. It's still writing. What three or four said was not visible. The number of children and youngsters located in the total number of situated users shows a decrease, unlike data from 2005 to 2006 where there is a slight increase, where the proportion of adults and older people has increased. That's what it says. In the total number of users, the most users are up to 18 years of life and users over 65 years of age. The largest share of children of primary school age is of these, the group of users up to 18 is over 50%. A large number of families in a 40 - to 60 - year - old age group point to the fact that foster parents will soon be unable to meet their foster duties in quality. And that's what it says. And that is unfortunately also part of the ageing population and what we currently have in Croatia in terms of therefore population movements. What does the law predict? The establishment of specialised foster care teams at social care centres as specialised teams exclusively engaged in foster care is foreseen. The law introduces personal compensation and introduces a better approach to foster care. So once again, I'm just going to repeat it and this is how I'm going to conclude the debate. The law introduces and regulates the law, the bill will set up specialised foster care teams, ensure personal compensation, reduce the number of users in a foster family, regulate household obligations, regulate the social care centre's obligations and in a certain way. In a unique way, I correct myself, regulate the introduction of records and registers. It is stated how much funding is needed to ensure foster care in this way and it actually raises that degree of separation for social care services of more than 4% of the GDP currently in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, if this is, and this is, the first reading of the law, we have enough time to adopt those remarks that are accurate, there is plenty of time to adopt those remarks made by all those who participated in a well-intentioned debate to fix certain things, and therefore here are the other colleagues who have supported this law and I support it and I think that, with certain adjustments, it will contribute significantly to fostering and better quality fostering in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u90004	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a five-minute debate was held by the distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u90005	Here, on behalf of the SPD club, I'd like to say a few of our views one more time. I think everyone here today spoke primarily in favour of making the law better, better quality because it's in our interest to have as many foster parents as possible and to have fewer children in institutions. However, as the law is written, it does not belong to foster parents or children. Therefore, until the second reading, this law needs to be substantially completed and much needs to be changed. The fact is, the law can't prescribe life. There are a lot of life situations that can't be put into any legal norms, but I think you should allow and leave enough space and centres for social care and think about still going to the introduction of agencies that would help the centres because this way, in these teams by the current number of foster parents, you'll have one team of about 300 foster parents or 300 users. Therefore, the question is whether all of this can be done and I think that in the process of obtaining foster parents, education of foster parents, working with foster parents and children who go into foster families, I think it should involve people who work with those children, so whether they are children who are located in a rehabilitation centre, whether they are children who are located in homes for unsupervised children. So the aunts that work with them, the professional workers who work with those kids, who take care of them for years, know best how children are traumatized, know which families they come from, know what those kids are going through, know absolutely everything about them because they've been taking care of them for 24 hours. Therefore, these people cannot and should not be excluded from this process and I think that these people should therefore be more involved than they should be taught in the adoption process from which they are quite removed. So people in the centers still don't have that insight into children, so in their living conditions, in their family situation as do people who care about them. On the other hand, there will be support for people who are professional because we simply need this support for foster parents, and I think that without additional funding, one large number of people can put into office support and children who go into foster care and also foster parents who decide to do so. This flexibility that I said I think should leave the centers with the opportunity to assess who is a good foster parent and how many children can be worried about primarily because of what I've been saying you have very rare cases of numerous families where there are therefore a number of children already suffering from the trauma that has been moved from their family, so don't in any way tear them apart from families that would be in different cities. We need a lot more flexibility here because I say life can't be prescribed by any law or any of this. And finally, what I'd like to point out one more time is the work of people in welfare centers. Do everything to make those who don't do their job in a way responsible for it, not falling on all people in welfare centres because there's really a lot of pressure on people in the center, there's more demands on them, more and more obligations, spatial conditions are in a lot of centers very bad and I think that's why they're working in difficult conditions, but it's not good what we have, and it's that often we hear from our citizens that the centres just don't do their jobs. I think everywhere someone doesn't do their job has a person's name and name and that as such it should simply be recorded. There is therefore, and here is the public today mentioning one of the centers with which there is a problem. Therefore, it is up to you to see what is wrong there, who does not do his job there, and who is responsible, for example, because in a home full of three years, no child has gone into adoption or foster care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u90006	Thank you. State Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Social Care Dorica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u90007	Well, here, I'll be very brief. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs. I thank you for all the debates you've had here on behalf of the clubs and individually. And as it has been said many times here, this is the first reading. And I'd just like to highlight two things here that have been crystallized. The aim of this law is indeed by looking at the user because here the state or ministry should be an important position for users, so the goal is to improve the status of users in foster care means any child or adult. There's been a lot of professionalization here or not. I must say that here the aim of this law is exclusively not professionalisation but still humanitarian work that needs support, so that's why this fee is. Professionalization is made possible in foster care in Croatia, it exists today within family homes either for children or for adults. So let's get that subject off the agenda. We already have professional foster parents as a family home. Like I said, it's a glass of famiglia and so on as well as other countries. Another matter of compensation that has been spoken of here, or supplies, and are they larger or smaller in the institution, meaning in the children's home, is it bigger or smaller somewhere else? It's created the kind of supply it is when we watch when I say it's real. When you look at the family that lives today, the average Croatian family how much can it single out for their child? Likewise, when we look at an institution how much of this price that I fully agree with are different prices in the institution, it is directly what affects the price of a supply or child to an institution. And when you look at the structure of that price, you see that it ranges from 800 to 1200 kuna. All the rest are expenses that do not go directly to the child found in the institution. And accordingly, I say that the second reading has time. There are many things to talk about, but I said: The intensity of this law is in fact to continue the tradition of what you are 105 years old in Croatia and it really is for humanitarian purposes, or to be humanitarian work but certainly helped and facilitated. Because we think he's a user, which means a child or an adult, the old person is our priority, but of course we consider foster parents as partners in this business, and that's how we'll continue to treat them.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u90008	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. The extension is at 15:00 with 3rd item of the agenda: Report on the state and management of the stock for the period 2000 to 2006. the year, with individual annual reports and financial indicators.
ParlaMint-HR_2007-06-13-0.u90009	Second, the Household Bill proposal. I am voting on the following conclusion: the proposal for a Household Act is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 73 votes for, 3 abstentions and 31 against the proposed conclusion.
